ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a general revision of the Rules of Procedure (35322). I would like to welcome the chairman of the working group, Mr Van der Staaij, and also the President of the Chamber, Mrs Arib. She's a consultant, that's what I understand. I would also like to welcome the clerk of the working group, Mrs Boeve, and the legislative lawyer, Mr De Ridder. In view of the current corona measures, the other members of the working group and staff are not in subject-K but are following this debate from another place. Today we are discussing the first-term response and the second-term answer as a whole. I would ask Members to limit themselves to the number of interruptions. Of course, I am not trying to steer it firmly, but let us first try to limit ourselves to about four questions. Because, of course, we also have the time limit, and there will be a debate this afternoon. At 7 p.m. we have to be home, at least: the plenary is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is a special time to be able to discuss in plenary today the proposal for a general revision of the Rules of Procedure. It has been a while since the Court made its contribution in the first term. I think that's five months ago. Thanks to the busy agenda of the Chambers, it took some time for us to respond. But the better we've been able to think about it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of the Chamber for all the first-term questions. I would also like to make it very clear that all the members of our working group, as the chairman said, who are not able to take part in trade union K today, of course, are very sympathetic to this debate. I am speaking today on behalf of the members of this working group, namely Mrs Aukje de Vries, Mr De Roon, Mr Geurts, Mr Sneller, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Baudet. I would also like to express my gratitude to the people behind the scenes at the moment. They deserve their name to be immortalized in the Acts. That is indeed our praiseless clerk Liselotte Boeve, supported by Alexander de Ridder, Sandor Loeffen, Suzanne Poppelaars and Anna Kodde, and all the others who have contributed. Thank you very much for their monks' work, which it often was, to mess with the whole of the Rules of Procedure and to see how things can be done better. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, when I name that broad composition of the working group, it shows that it is also a common product, which requires the necessary commitment and discussions to get out of it. At the same time, this is also an explanation, if some say that the revolutions were not going to happen in this review. We have explicitly sought a broad consensus when we look at the Chamber's rule book. The amendments will show that there are always a few issues that keep the Chamber more divided, where it is more up to the Chamber itself to decide. We have therefore adopted a consensus-based approach. This has happened quite differently in the past. A beautiful and beautiful example from Carla Hoetink's beautiful book was about the rituals and customs in the Chamber. She described how years ago, in the summer of 1970, a working group of MPs, together with a young clerk, withdrew to a country cottage in Fryslân to consider how things could be much better and more beautiful. A working group, named after the village of Ee, behind Dokkum, with illustrious members such as Hans Wiegel, Ed van Thijn, Hans van Mierlo, came up with all kinds of spectacular proposals, such as the advance of Princess Day and even......................................................................................................................................... You saw it: it didn't come. These revolutionary proposals have often failed to reach the finish line. Hoetink actually explains this in two ways. On the one hand, it is because of what it calls 'institutional conservatism', which is often characteristic of the way in which the Chamber looks at its own way of working. On the other hand, it is because of what is also called "the logic of proximity." At a distance from The Hague, the most progressive proposals could be devised, but the conviction to defend them was closer. In the end, only those proposals that were conventional enough to count on broad support were retained. Mr. Chairman. We hope, of course, that our proposals will come to an end. From the questions and comments made by my fellow Members, I should like to point out that the vast majority of our proposals have the warmest support of the Chamber. We are, of course, pleased with that. We will see what kind of revolution the amendments are going to bring to a close. Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mrs Arib, the President of the Chamber and the President of the Bureau, is sitting next to me in section K. It will address a number of questions and observations raised in the Court's first term. Those are questions that are specifically about the way in which this Chamber operates and which also raised all kinds of practical questions and raised problems. I am therefore pleased that Mrs Arib can respond to this. Mr. Chairman. Let me first make some general comments. I shall then answer the more specific questions and respond to the amendments tabled. First of all, a few general comments on the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are of great political and constitutional importance. It is the result of the Constitution. It determines how we as a Chamber do our job. It is a factor in the way representative democracy looks in practice. It contains practices that are anchored in daily parliamentary life. At the same time we now see with corona that all kinds of things have changed. Some members have also appointed that. Who would have thought that suddenly roll-call votes in 50 rounds would be needed? Who would have thought that all of a sudden videoconferences would be held? Well, that's another way of working, isn't it? None of this is covered by the Rules of Procedure and we have not made provision for it either. We presented our proposal in October 2019, so for the outbreak of the corona pandemic. We are not going to say halfway through the crisis: should this and that not be different? This is also stated in the paper on the report. We can imagine that, in all sorts of reviews and reviews that will undoubtedly take place after the corona crisis, we will also look at the way in which the Chamber operates and what further improvements can be made. However, we have not yet included this in the revision of the Rules of Procedure. Ms Özütok asked about the political importance of the Rules of Procedure in the first period. What place does it take under state law? Is it really sufficiently equipped to respond to current state-of-the-art issues? Those are legitimate questions. We believe that the Rules of Procedure are very much in line with the new questions which are constantly raised in the functioning of the Chamber. The system is based on Article 72 of the Constitution. The Court may adopt such rules by its own decision. This underlines the independence of the Chamber. The government does not support the question of how we organise our procedures and practices. The Rules of Procedure shall have a binding effect on the members of the Chamber itself. We must realise that it cannot bind others externally, given the special nature of the procedure of the Chamber itself. You will need legislation for that, as you can see from the legislation for the parliamentary survey. If you also want to commit third parties, you really need legislation in a formal sense. Mr. Chairman. When you talk about the way the Chamber works, you talk about the structure, the culture, the rules and the customs. That is what is being discussed in every debate on the way the Chamber operates, and that is what is happening here. We can write down all kinds of things, but of course there is also a whole package of unwritten habits and practices in the way we implement our working methods. This also gives room for a flexible fill-in. For example, you are looking in vain for a provision in the Rules of Procedure which states that the President is speaking, but this is considered important in order to get the heat out of the debate a little bit and to be able to bring the debate into a somewhat quieter place. GroenLinks asked for flexibility. A provision that we have expressly omitted is that it is always possible to depart from a provision in the Rules of Procedure with general agreement. So that, too, offers the necessary flexibility in practice. The review is, of course, done little by little, as history shows, but it is good to have an overall review from time to time. In practice, it takes place about once every 25 years. The time was now ripe to do that again. As a working group, we have been instructed by the Bureau to examine the rules and see if they are still in place, how to organise them better and whether there are any problems that need to be resolved. We have taken as our starting point that the position of the individual Member of Parliament is central, that the Rules of Procedure should be easy to use, that the Rules should be clear and complete and give a real picture of the parliamentary procedure and that the Rules should not be rigid for the functioning of the Chamber. We have added a fifth criterion: the regulation must contribute to a transparent, predictable and predictable working method. On this basis, we have examined, weighed and assessed all 155 articles separately for durability, usability and comprehensibility. It contains many technical, linguistic improvements and has a new layout. We distance ourselves from a number of provisions which are no longer in function. In addition, we are making a number of concrete proposals to improve the Chamber work. In doing so, we have identified a number of bottlenecks. We have also held a very broad round to hear which bottlenecks are seen. I was struck by the fact that these bottlenecks were consistently identified. It was said: pay attention to how to relieve the burden on the plenary. The overloading of the plenary agenda was seen as an important bottleneck, and it was also an explicit wish to see how the role of the committees could be strengthened, of course in conjunction with each other. However, the committees are Parliament's working horses and deserve more visibility and appreciation. We have put forward proposals to simplify, among other things, the committee system. Enter an arrangement of work at commission level. Commissions can also decide on the holding of legislative submissions themselves. That doesn't have to happen in plenary anymore. The term "general consultation" shall be replaced by the more appropriate term "committee debate." Recommendations have also been made which are not directly in the rules, but which we did say: pay attention, Chamber and Presidium, and take that further with us. An example is the interior design. Make sure the room layout matches the character of your activity. A pleasant room in a round table discussion is fine, but a more robust committee debate should fit a bit with the allure of the room in question. Note the architectural elements and the decoration, which also determine the status of a parliamentary activity. I thought that was a nice new insight that emerged in this working group. In addition to the formal strengthening of the committee's work, therefore, it is always important that we approach and promote committee activities in our culture, in our dealings with the request for debates and the like. We should not regard them as a kind of second-class activity, but as a full-fledged place. At plenary level, we come up with proposals to address the long list of unplanned debates and make the agenda predictable. Oral Question Time will be given a more freer approach. Finally, we are addressing a number of bottlenecks in the legislative process, such as the phenomenon of the orphan own-initiative proposals and the second reading of constitutional reform proposals. The instrument of the own-initiative paper will also be better regulated. I say again that it was not our intention to deal with it exhaustively. It is a good thing that parliamentary culture remains full of all kinds of unwritten rules and customs. Given the higher orbital speed of Members in Parliament, we have said that it is good to regulate more things more explicitly, so that it is easier to find and know. Think of declaring controversial or proposals that no longer have ownership because the relevant MP has been turned off. There are also other reasons why you do not want to leave certain developments in our parliamentary culture entirely to their course. Mr Van Raak mentioned this in his contribution in the first term. It also touched on that issue of the erraticness and unpredictability of our agenda. That is one of the themes that we have also examined in greater detail. We have put forward proposals for a more structured and balanced approach. With, for example, fixed voting times, I shall come back to that later. But what Mr Van Raak put forward here specifically in the first term also touched me personally. He pointed out that a number of weeks after the summer recess, there was already a wave of exhaustion, long debates and nocturnal votes. He said: let's make sure that it's all a bit to do, that it stays healthy and that we're not in the middle of an unhealthy exhaustion blow. I thought it was a justified cry of hearts that, as I see it, also lives wider in the Chamber. I also say that we do not resolve this with this revision of the Rules of Procedure. These are matters that I would like to put back to the Chamber, including the new Chamber. How do we ensure that it all stays a bit manageable and that we are not too busy with the delusion of the day, paying sufficient attention to the fundamental, perhaps a bit more boring subjects? We must ensure that there is sufficient room for this on the plenary agenda. Mr. Chairman. Those were my introductory remarks. A lot of amendments have been tabled. They will be an important part of the discussion. I will indicate how the working group assesses it. It was, of course, a matter of finding out how we deal with it as a broad-based working group. There are, of course, some more controversial amendments. Moreover, we are also part of the Chamber. So what role exactly are we in? Here's what we did. When we see amendments that explicitly support or improve a proposal that we are making, we leave the judgement to the Chamber. When we've talked about it and deliberately didn't choose it and say that we don't find it useful after all, we'll advise against it. So that is what we do when we have made a different assessment on a subject that is on the agenda. If amendments concern issues that we have not taken a position on, subjects that are not widely shared and where opinions differ, then we as a working party are abstaining from an opinion and then the opinion is simply up to the Chamber to discuss them in a debate. Well, then you know what you can expect in relation to the amendments. I now turn to the following subjects. Maybe it's useful to name those cubes. These are eight: 1. the committees, 2. the order of business, 3. motions, 4. votes, 5. the planning of debates, 6. oral Question Time, 7. constitutional reviews and legislative proposals and 8. other questions and amendments. I'll start with the committees. We have made several proposals to strengthen the position of committees, such as the introduction of a system of work in committees. Mrs Özutök stressed the importance of uniformity in the procedures used by the committees. We support that. It is of course useful that you have a uniform working method everywhere. At the same time, we believe that the committees should also be given some room to adapt their working methods as closely as possible to the work being carried out. It will depend a little on the type of procedure to what extent customisation is possible and necessary. I think that in the way in which the Chamber operates, the meetings of committee chairmen play an important role in filtering out whether there are unnecessary differences in the working methods of committees. Mrs Özutök also asked about the role of committees in other parliaments. We have indeed looked beyond the borders. We have made various proposals ourselves to ensure a better balance between the plenary debate and the work in the committees. You could go even further by, for example, laying down all kinds of formal powers in committee sometimes abroad. We didn't choose to do that, considering everything. You run the risk that this will reduce the effectiveness of the preparatory research in the committees and that political decisions will be taken at an early stage. We consider our own parliamentary culture to be a beautiful element of the Dutch system on important legislative proposals in plenary. There is a multitude of political movements represented and this can also be highlighted in this debate as much as possible. There are already a number of possibilities for giving more substance to the preparatory examination of legislative proposals, for example by holding round tables and appointing rapporteurs. Commissions are now also working with knowledge agendas. As far as we are concerned, this is being pursued further. I say it again: let the committee chairmen also have a thorough discussion so that they can learn from each other, because the way things are done in one committee can also be nice to apply in the other committee. An example of how to strengthen the role of committees was recently highlighted in the debate on the surcharges. A motion has also been tabled and adopted by this Chamber, building on suggestions from the Council of State. The Council suggested that the Committees themselves should make more work on evaluating laws rather than just investing in universities and having a brief discussion on them. Then the Committee on the Rules of Procedure itself is even more intrusive in how laws work out in practice. Mr Van Meenen has tabled an amended amendment, No. 33. This means that in future the committee's procedural meetings will be held by political groups. Here's what I'm gonna do. Our proposal for a revision does not deviate from political practice with regard to the decision-making of committees. I will just mention the number, and you will all know what I am talking about: it is the amendment in part No. 33. We have joined the existing practice, which is actually very much aimed at consensus and less at voting. However, we discussed the proposal presented here in the working group. A disadvantage of this proposal is that the holding of plenary majorities in the committee meeting could be complicated, because the votes would then be weighted. It can also be more difficult, complex and time-consuming, because what about if certain groups are not represented, or if several members of one group are represented? In short, all kinds of practical questions arise and it is not clear what this would mean for the nature and working methods of cooperation within committees. We are afraid that this could lead to further politicisation, while more consensus-oriented work is now underway. Finally, we find it extremely important that this fiction should really be included in the Rules of Procedure in this way. This really goes beyond the fiction in the Chamber with a show of hands: then the President looks at the Members sitting in the Chamber. Here you're really going to use a far-reaching fiction in the rules that doesn't match the composition of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Politicalisation of the procedural meeting is, of course, the last thing I would like to do, but it is of course happening. It happens. What we are doing here is actually in line with actuality, because in this corona period we are doing it this way. Of course, and fortunately, it is very rare for us to have to vote, but we have seen it recently. I think that ultimately it does more justice to the democratic legitimacy of those who are present there. So it is absolutely not my intention to do so, at least in the case of the Acts, to get as many votes as possible. I am not in favour of that, but the intention is to avoid that, if a vote is to take place at the procedural meeting, all of a sudden people are running down the halls, because then a lot of VVDs or anyone else will have to go to the procedural meeting because they have to vote. We've seen that, too. You've been here a lot longer than I have, but I've been there. Yeah, that's nice and it also has something beautiful and exciting, but it's actually a bit crazy. And I think it's going well in the corona period. I wonder how Mr Van der Staaij looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	So there's also space. I understand the argument. We certainly do not say "what are you coming with?', Because we ourselves have taken a serious look at this and thought about whether it would not be a good way of doing things. But we were opposed to the fact that not everyone is a member of committees at the moment. You do use a fiction based on representation in plenary, whereas it is legally less appropriate to use such a fiction. For example, you do not have a quorum, and you do have a quorum in plenary. So what about if there are only two or a few Members who can make up a majority, including on issues that may not have been raised? We are saying, and Mr Van Meenen shows this, that it can sometimes work well on the basis of consensus within the committee meeting. Then you don't have to make the rules so. And if you're gonna take care of it, it's gonna trigger complications. In fact, that is why we have said: we do not choose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	The last thing I would like to do is to do something that is different from the good practice here to seek consensus in procedural meetings. I do not think it is right that this argument should be used against this amendment, because it is not. There is just occasional voting in procedural meetings. Let us keep that very limited. I care how we do it, when it happens. I must say that I find it much more housebroken how that happens now. On the objection that Mr Van der Staaij raises that there are very few Members of Parliament at times, I would say: it would be even worse if we only looked at who they happen to be and how they vote, rather than what they represent in the Chamber. The objection that not all parties or persons are represented in the committee meeting is also solved with this amendment: everyone is given the right to vote in the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	I think that Mr Van Meenen has rightly pointed out the reasons why he has tabled this amendment. For my part, I have indicated why, as a working group, we have made a different choice. Then it is up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	I understand that this is the amendment to item No. Thirty-three is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	Yes, that's correct. Furthermore, Mr Van der Molen has tabled an amended amendment in order to have minority debates in committee instead of plenary debates. That is the amendment to item No. 30. As a result, Mrs Özütok asked whether it would be a good idea to limit the number of 30 Members' debates in plenary by allowing minority debates in committee. As all the documents in our revision proposal show, we would like the importance of committees in the Chamber to increase. We have made several proposals to support that. But we are not in favour of the amendment for minority debates at committee level. As has actually been discussed in writing, our argument is that we do not wish to undermine the right of minorities to hold a plenary debate, and to deprive them of the possibility of a plenary 30-member debate does not fit in with that principle that we have used. A plenary minority should continue to have the opportunity to raise this type of debate in plenary. And we do not see any point in raising the threshold for this, so we do not see any point in removing that possibility as a whole. In addition, in our view, it is also highly questionable whether there will be any incentive to hold minority debates, some sort of 30-member debates at committee level. After all, there will be no central control over the planning. Now you see what you see, and you also suggest that as a Chamber, if you have too many thirty Members' debates, you are actually stuck, because it will not work anymore. That is why we also have a decay clause, so there is some kind of inherent moderation in it. But if you do not, and say that you also have the right at committee level to organise 30-member debates, then we are concerned that this waiting period problem, which is also largely caused by majority debates, is being moved to committee level, or even increased. Furthermore, it is already a good practice in committees to define their own agenda on the basis of consensus as much as possible. You can see that sometimes they opt for "not your subject, but there will be a larger topic that can also be part of it." So we see good developments in trying to do as much justice to minorities as possible in committees, but sometimes to cluster and join together. We would not wish to prejudice this procedure, and we therefore also advise against the amendment in respect of item No. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	The amendment in part No. 30 is not recommended. An interruption by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	I can very well follow Mr Van der Staaij when he says that there must of course be room for debate here. And we do that in large numbers in minorities. But they hardly ever come from them, because they are extremely long lists; then they are put on the plenary agenda once and then we are months away. You just used the word 'fiction' in the direction of Mr Van Meenen. But that is what we are doing with these 30-member debates. Then everyone can have their five minutes of fame by asking one of them, saying: I made it a priority. And then they don't come, or a year later. So I fully understand what Mr Van der Staaij is saying: yes, unfortunately there is nothing to do about that, but we deliberately do not choose to do that topicality in committee, which can move faster than the plenary? So should MPs be content to be on a waiting list, or should they be satisfied with the fact that a debate can take place, but in a committee? How does Mr Van der Staaij view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	We agree with the analysis that we need to find a solution to this waiting period problem. We have proposed two things to that effect. On the one hand, the setbacks for requested debates, which, in fact, say beforehand that if we ask for too many debates together, that means that a lot is falling over the edge. And, two, we also advocated a committee procedure; that it would be easier, even for smaller groups, to request a debate at the beginning of a procedural meeting, and that it would also be easier to check through Debate Missed. Sometimes Members of Parliament also want to make it clear to those they represent that they really put a subject on the agenda, and seek some evidence for that. Well, that can be done, therefore, by having an easier entry through that commission scheme of work. Those are the solutions we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr Van der Molen, supplementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	Let's see if I can draw the right conclusion. The solution to the fact that there are a lot of 30 Members' debates that are never scheduled because there are so many are two measures. One: they should be easier to apply for, through the committee. That seems to me to lead to more applications that are not on the table. And we have an expiration date, that is, before you get it at all, they're already gone. How can this, I ask Mr Van der Staaij, be a solution to the problem of speeding up urgent debates? Because that a minority should be able to organise debates, which I think shares this whole house. But if they don't happen, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	Sure, but in the end, of course, that's what we do to each other. That's real culture. You can't solve that with rules. So it's not Columbus' egg we're bringing in, but it's a small contribution. On the one hand, you can now hear Members who are asking for a debate at a work arrangement: hey, it's so easy; you can report it and you are standing there with your question or with your point. Sometimes it's a little more complicated with committees. Then, for example, you have to come with it at the end in a question. So that encourages you to put your points before a committee meeting. In addition, of course, you do so by limiting the number of work arrangements. That is also a clue to first of all make your point in committee. Often you see that a point can also be dealt with in a committee. Mr Van der Molen's proposal actually states that the plenary is only the stage of a majority in the Chamber. That will also often be the coalition. That actually runs the risk of saying: in committee, the opposition is allowed to raise debates, and in plenary it is for the coalition or for a majority. That is what we think is at risk from that amendment. We have also seen in some foreign countries that it may work that way. Let us also maintain that low-threshold that exists for minorities and at the same time try to get more to the committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	I understand that we cannot convince Mr Van der Staaij of this. Maybe he is still speaking personally, but he is speaking on behalf of a committee composed of all of our good colleagues. I think that what we are doing here with each other makes sense for all parties, also in order to be able to determine their position properly and clearly. If you will allow me, I will return to that vote at the procedural meeting following the little debate between you and Mr Van der Molen. It is only now that I understand that we can therefore request a minority debate there, in the organisation of the proceedings of the procedural meeting. It's possible. Then there is no alternative but to vote according to the proportions in the plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	The point is not that we want to organise minority debates within the committee, but if you request a debate there, within the working methods used by committees, we assume that it is possible and that there is room for it. But it is not the case that we are introducing a formal right to minority debates in committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr Van Meenen, additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	We have an arrangement of work there. So if it has any meaning, you should be able to apply there. I just can't imagine how you can do that without taking into account the relations in the Chamber. 'Cause what's that gonna be? There is an accidental amount of Members present and it is going to decide, with one man, one vote, whether or not a minority debate is going to be held there? I don't want to complicate things, but may I ask you this: will you come back to this question of mine in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	Perhaps I could serve you right away, Mr. Van Meenen. We have, of course, talked in detail about this point, about how it works in the committees. Our idea is... Take the example that there is a shocking report from the Ombudsman about that access to disability care is not going well. If there is a debate on this now, everyone thinks: it is an important subject; it is a shocking report, so it is good to organise a debate on it. If this were to go to committee, I expect everyone to say: 'This is indeed an important report, but as a committee, we have the instruments to have a written round on it first. Because everyone wants a debate. What's on the agenda? What does it fit in with? Does it have to be separate?" I therefore think that it would be much easier for you to be able to do so at committee level, which also teaches the experience of removing it in an orderly procedure than is the case in plenary. Plenair, in particular, has the taste of requests for debates, and not of the whole other arsenal of instruments available to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u21	Yes, Mr. Van Meenen, I'll give you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u22	Sorry, I'll really try to control myself. Will you turn off the microphone now, or am I not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u23	By mistake. I pushed the wrong button.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u25	I had to push myself away, but then I pushed you away. There was no intent in the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u26	Look, I understand everything Mr Van der Staaij says. That's the way it is, of course. All kinds of decisions are being taken there. But at some point in a minority debate we are talking about a minority being able to find something and achieve something that is normally permitted only by majorities. That's the instrument we brought in here. Now I'm trying to imagine how that's going to work out in a committee, if you can't determine if that minority is enough. 'Cause how are you gonna determine that? When will a minority in the committee be sufficient? Is it enough if one person in that committee says that or will it ultimately have to be counted whether it is those 30 members? I'm curious to hear the answer. You don't have to now, because I'd rather you think about it than you do now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u27	But the advantage is that we have already thought about those points, because our mission was also what you can do better and how you can deal with them. With every new change you have to look again how it works out in practice. What we see is that, in many committees, the culture is to honour them, if parties have reasonable points, and to put them into practice. As far as the question of minorities and majority groups is concerned, we feel that this is more pronounced in the plenary than in the committee, where the collective view is that you want to do as many subjects as possible in a good way and you understand that each party can have its own priorities. So that's why we haven't made any other proposals on this than we have. In any case, I would like to thank Mr Van Meenen for the points he has made from his experience as chairman of the committee. We want to take this very seriously and we also want to see how it is implemented, but we do say: look at it first, and that applies to all changes in regulations, how it works out in practice. We can make sentences here, but it has always been a matter of waiting to see how this will work out in practice, which also applies to this revision of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u28	In any case, I note that the amendment to item No. 30 is still being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u29	That's correct. Mr Van der Molen has tabled an amendment with some other Members to set up a permanent committee on digital affairs. That did not come as a thunderbolt in the clear sky, because we have seen that the Chamber has previously adopted the Van der Molen cum suis motion on this subject following the report of the Temporary Committee on the Digital Future. In that motion, the Chamber declares that it is taking over the temporary committee's opinions and is determined to set up a permanent committee on digital matters after the next parliamentary elections. The amendment thus already takes the decision to set up the permanent Committee on Digital Affairs by this Chamber. In fact, we understand that where it was first a recommendation for the next Chamber, it is actually being dealt with in this amendment itself. We are abstaining from any judgment on this matter. We have not discussed it further as a working group. So we'll leave that to judge the Chamber. We would like to point out for a moment what it means if it comes into effect at the same time. This can be the case quite quickly. The question then is whether that period is sufficient to ensure that the Digital Affairs Committee can be formed from the start of the new Chamber. That is still a question of implementation which is at least on the agenda for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u30	Then it was the amendment...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u31	This is the amendment to item No. 25, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u32	25, this is for the administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u33	Yes, with regard to Amendment No. 25 We are therefore abstaining from judgment. You see: gradually it becomes a little more friendly, from dissuaded to memorized.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u34	Remember judgment... that will eventually be judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u35	No, we really want to make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u36	You're abstaining from judgment. I was just wondering how you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u37	The President has made it clear to me in the past that it was sometimes said at Bureau meetings 'judge Chamber', which was then sometimes understood as 'that's fine to do'. That is why we are now saying that we do not really want to do so, because sometimes we are dealing with controversial issues. That is why we, as a working party, are abstaining from an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u38	I will then name it as such: abstain from judgment. Then we will see what happens next in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u39	That's right. Mr Markuszower and Mr Hiddema asked about the proposal that work should be organised once a week. We have chosen this as part of the commitment to make the plenary agenda more predictable. The complaint was, after all, that you should get out of your committee debate again for this arrangement of work. We can already see that Tuesday's work is the most important one. So it stays at the heart of the matter. And on really urgent issues, additional work can be requested. That's for the president's assessment. We can see that many requests can wait until the next Tuesday or, even better often, through the committees. After all, a debate is rarely scheduled for the same week. We have recommended to ensure that this new regulation of committee work can be found on Debate Direct. That is not the case at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Markuszower standing at the interrupting microphone. Shall I finish this point or would you like to allow an interruption first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u40	Let me see what's handy. I see that Mr Markuszower agrees that Mr Van der Staaij should conclude his reply on this point. So let's wait for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u41	In response to the comments made by Mr Van Gent and Mr Bishop, I would like to say two more things. Mr Van Gent says: beware of exceptions to the rules, because in the end you will have a lot more work arrangements. That's true. That is indeed a real risk. In the end, of course, we are here as a chamber ourselves. The Chairman shall assess whether an application is so urgent that it cannot be postponed until the next Tuesday and whether it cannot be raised in committee either. It also depends, in the end, on whether the Chamber itself is showing restraint in its own proposals and in the way in which it reacts to other proposals for an additional regulation of work. So it has to be said that if that proposal is to come to the end in the new regulation, then we will also act in the spirit of it. Mr Bishop asked about the way in which letters were applied for to the government by means of an arrangement of work. The current rules already require that a member who intends to request a letter from the government should be authorised by the President. So it's not the rule. That's gotta go through those committees. There can only be an exception when it comes to a request for a letter in favour of a debate that will soon take place in plenary. So this doesn't really change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u42	With all due respect to the committee and for all the work that has been done, I would like to come back to that point of limiting the request for debate by means of an arrangement of work. If I understand correctly, the limitation in the new proposal is that it can only be done on Tuesdays and by exception on other days, provided that the President agrees. But my group believes that it is important that everyone in this House should be able to request a debate at any time. Members of Parliament should therefore be able to request a debate every day in the plenary. That makes democracy a little more vibrant. This will ensure that matters that are at that time important for the Netherlands can be discussed widely at that time. On Tuesdays, you can't always predict what's going on for the rest of the week. If we restrict it or hide it in a committee meeting, I say this without wishing to be derogatory, then I think we are restricting the power of democracy and the power of the parliament to raise important issues at that time. Can Mr Van der Staaij comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u43	I understand the point. You can weigh this really different. The PVV Group or others can say that we want to maintain it, because that promotes the liveliness of what is happening here. If you think that it is not lively enough and that the vitality needs to be strengthened, then it can make a good contribution. We had more as a problem analysis that the predictability of the agenda is an issue and that the resignation of the plenary is an argument. You want to refer more to committees, you want to make it more predictable by a clear moment when that takes place. In view of the large number of debates, these arguments led us to refer more specifically to the committees and to reduce the gateway to a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u44	In addition, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u45	I am not a great philosopher, but I would like to present the following to Mr Van der Staaij. Life isn't predictable. The news is not predictable. The problem is not predictable. A war could break out. A corona crisis could break out. An example of this week is that yesterday, after the arrangement of work, we received a letter that the government wants to extend the Temporary Law measures covid-19 by three months. Then it would be nice if we could ask for a debate on this today or tomorrow in an arrangement of work. Perhaps this is not a good example, but there are just things we cannot predict, which can be avoided after Tuesday afternoon's work and on which you would actually like to request a debate. Things aren't always predictable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u46	Clear. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u47	I recognize that point. Things are not always predictable and that is why there is always that valve in the extra regulation of work. I think what Mr Markuszower says is a very good example. If you say 'there will be a decision to extend a curfew' and you do not want to let that wait until next week, then you also see that there is an immediate broad recognition of the need for an additional regulation of work. By the way, this is another example of what you can see coming a bit. If there is decision-making, you could also say on Tuesday that you want to have a debate on the matter. So you could also reason: liveliness is good. As a working party, we heard a great deal back as a complaint: is the debate not too short of breath? Couldn't we think about a night before we decide? Should there be a debate on this matter on a point of order? It could be said that keeping that arrangement of work more scarce also gives a little more peace and a little more emphasis on whether you can discuss it with the committee in a calm manner. The valve stays in it, so that's why we thought this was a well-balanced proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u48	Finishing, Mr. Markuszower?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u49	Yeah, finalizing, thank you. I understand that valve is in it and that it is filtered by the President. So, with all due respect to the President, independently of the President's person, there is one person in this house who uses that valve. Or do I misunderstand that? So it is not in the new proposal that every Member of Parliament, or a political group, can say: no, we want an additional arrangement of work today. If that's it, so if it's filtered by one person, our group thinks that's undesirable. Then I wonder whether I will have to table an amendment or a motion to stop it, so that it is not in the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u51	I would nevertheless advise you to think about it for a moment and perhaps make a different weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u52	We have thought about it and made our weighing. This is reflected in Rule 8.8, second paragraph, which indeed states: 'The rules of procedure generally take place once a week at a fixed time to be determined by the President. The President may, in special cases, decide to arrange for work to take place at other times." So that's the choice we made. It is up to the Court to say by means of amendments that we want to make a different choice here. We shall then give an opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you. Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u54	On this point and back to the principle. You say: the President decides whether there can be anything. I would point out that it is the Chamber that determines order. So the question to the committee is: how does it see it? Is there still the possibility for the Chamber to ask for a point of order: we want an order of business, because we, like the other 149 Members, need to do something that the President may not want to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u55	You can see that there is a power of the Chamber as a whole on a number of points and that it is up to the President on a number of points. That is also the case in the current rules. Of course, you can always judge differently about what you want to leave with the Chamber or the President. We have also tried to explain these special cases further, that there is an explanation in them. In such a curfew, that is a clear example that it cannot wait. It will also be honoured by the President. If there is any doubt, of course, a President can always say: I leave this to the judgment of the Chamber, I do not think it is clear, I think it is a serious point. That does not mean that this debate is being called for. That is the verdict of the Chamber. Only the President, therefore, has the power to say 'I think this is obvious and allow an additional arrangement of work', or 'I have doubts and I think I should refer it to the Chamber', or 'I am going to make this additional arrangement possible and the Chamber itself must decide whether it wants the debate'. That is actually the system that we advocate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you. Mr Van Otterloo additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u57	If you see it very clearly, then that means that if the President decides that there will be no debate, the other 149 Members will not be able to make a point of order that there must be an arrangement of work. That's why I asked. The President does not think it is necessary and the Chamber thinks it is necessary, whether it is by a majority or a minority, does not matter. What's going on? Is that the opinion of the Chamber or the opinion of the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u58	It is formally a matter of the power of the President, but the President does not operate from an ivory tower. A clever MP who really wants extra work to be regulated will ensure broad support from the Chamber and say "President, there are several political groups who want additional work to be regulated." I think that is how it will crystallise in practice. In obvious cases, it will be immediately granted, evident cases going the other way, in which it is not necessary at all to do it on a set and jump basis, will be rejected, and in an intermediate category will also weigh heavily on how something lives in the Chamber. That will become clear in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u59	Thank you. I was wondering which amendment was specifically concerned, because the number was not mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u60	This is not an amendment. This was a question from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u61	Fine. Agreed. I have been looking for the amendment that might be included, but it was not possible to find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u62	For all these subjects, I will not name it, but the President is also listening with great commitment and will, of course, bring forward her own weighting in a number of areas. Mr. Chairman. I now come to point 3, the motions. Several questions have been asked about motions. An amendment has also been tabled. Mr Van Gent and others pointed in the first place to the excess of motions and the importance it has for the effectiveness of this instrument. We share that concern. At the same time, it is difficult to regulate this without overmining the rights of individual Members of Parliament. That was also a guiding principle in our review. That is why we have proposed no further restrictions on the tabling of motions, but also no extension, precisely in the light of that concern about the large number of motions. Mr Bishop asked about the provision on the wording of motions. They must be "short and clear." The question is, what does that mean in practice? Of course, you can argue about that for a long time, but frankly I found "short and clear" to be very good as an illustration of what "short and clear" is: well, that is; with very few words very precise say what it comes to. Then you can talk endlessly about what is and is not covered. Mr Bishop also raised the question of who still has a job to do. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President has the task of keeping the subject under review, and that remains the case in order to stay on the subject during the sitting, but also to monitor compliance with the need for clarity and clarity. The President is also monitoring compliance with the Rules of Procedure, so he can say'respectful Member, this is a very long text'. Moreover, I think that having a short speaking time in the time limit for tabling motions is a very nice way of forcing Members to be brief. That also greatly helps the conciseness of the motions. That is precisely why we are not in favour of the suggestion made by Mr Van Meenen, among others, to stop reading the whole motion and limit you to the operative part. This would make it even easier for us to table a large number of motions in the limited time, was our feeling. The rule in Rule 8.19, paragraph 1, that the text of the motion is read by the author, has the effect that it will formulate its motions more succinctly and submit more sparing motions, since the reading time of the motion is deducted from the speaking time. That is why we do not want to change this practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u63	Mr. Van Meenen, I've asked for some brief interruptions. You're already at five; I'll just hand it over. I'll allow it now, but this is the message, because we have to move on. I also note that we have now dealt with three amendments. There's a whole pile left, so let's try to keep up the momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u64	I will try to go as far as possible to the operative part and to make as few considerations as possible about the amendments. Mr Van Meenen also asked about the designation of motions. He suggested that only the motion number should be published. I think it would be good for the Bureau to look together with the Registry at any advantages and disadvantages of this. We believe that it can stand in the way of public awareness if you only name bare numbers, without indicating what is the subject of a motion or an amendment. Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Kuik have tabled an amendment on the possibility of tabling motions during committee debates. That is the amendment to item No. 18; that has now changed to No. 39. We do not recommend this amendment because we are concerned that the tabling of motions during committee debates will lead to a larger number of motions, while we were actually struggling with the question: how are we going to achieve fewer motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u65	I note, then, that the previous amendment No. 18 was and has been amended to No. 39 will be dissuaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u66	Then there is the amended amendment tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van Meenen on keeping a public register of commitments. I am told that the President will respond to that. This is in line with the approach we had as a working group, namely: the idea is sympathetic and we support it, but the questions that arise there are more to do with the practice. What's the point of keeping that all up-to-date? What ICT and what human resources is involved? So I would like to leave it to the President to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u67	I understand that this is about the amendment to item No. 31, if I could just browse along. That is the amendment which the President will give an appreciation of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u68	Yes, that is the amendment in part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u70	Then I come to the subject of voting and voting time. Mrs Özütok asked what a good time for the fixed voting times. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop have tabled an amendment to record the fixed voting time on Tuesday after Question Time and on Thursday at 4 p.m. That is the amendment to item No. 19. As our report and our proposal show, we are certainly in favour of voting being scheduled as much as possible at fixed times, precisely because it improves the predictability of the Chamber's agenda and the work. We have therefore proposed an experiment with two fixed reserved voting sessions on Tuesdays and Thursdays to see if this will make the plenary agenda more predictable. We have explicitly opted for an open wording without specific timings. This allows us to see in an experiment how feasible and useful it is to choose two specific times. That is why we do not recommend the amendment on item No. 19. We would like to suggest that a motion should take over our proposal to experiment with what is an appropriate time. We also had difficulty with what was said in the explanatory statement about the time when votes on motions of censure or roll-call votes would take place. In our opinion, it was too much of a close-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you. The amendment in part No. 19 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u72	Yes. Mrs Özütok raised the question of how, in particular cases, we can proceed to additional votes, and how we can ensure that debates and votes, for example, can be streamlined as a result of European Councils. We are aware that additional voting times cannot be ruled out entirely, for example on Thursdays prior to a recess, but indeed also prior to some European Councils. The vote will then have to take place at a different time, because it could not be discussed earlier by the Chamber. That is why it seems appropriate to ask the Bureau to look again carefully at what is the best time for a fixed vote on Thursday, where you also have to deviate as little as possible from it, because that is of course the underlying idea. We are therefore in favour of holding firm votes and planning additional voting moments as sparingly as possible. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop also endorse this in the explanatory statement to their amendment to item No. 19 on fixed voting moments, which I was just talking about. They state that roll-call votes and votes on motions of censure should not be an exception. As I said just now, that seems to us to be too close, because you can have certain motions of mistrust in a very appealing and important debate, of which it would be quite unnatural to move it all the way to a later moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mr Van Meenen. I myself experienced yesterday from experience that a microphone is not doing too well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u74	I'm sorry to interrupt. The proposal not to make an exception to a fixed voting time for motions of censure has been made mainly from the point of view of the health and well-being of us and the staff. For spending countless evenings and nights here, in anticipation of whether or not a motion of censure, is one of the things that many of us are not good at. Then I'm not even talking about myself, because I'm okay with it, but that's the argument. Then we'll just have to wait a day to see if that trust is there or not. That's the price we pay for that. It is equally unnatural that we cannot table motions in committee. That also feels very unnatural. I wonder if you'll use that argument there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u75	The point is clear. Nor do we say that there should always be a vote in favour of motions of censure. The question remains whether that exception should apply. But if you say that a motion of censure is being tabled here, and it is best to wait, then that may be the conclusion. But what we are saying is: do not say on the other hand that it should never be an exception. Because you can have an important debate on that Thursday, which is really worth giving an immediate answer and not saying that it will be at the fixed voting time on Tuesday. Then I come to the planning of debates. Several questions have been asked about this, and in particular the long list of unplanned debates. Mr Bishop asked about the possibilities for reducing the long list of unplanned debates. We've explored several options for that. One option would be to hold 30-member debates in committee only, as proposed in the Van der Molen amendment in part No. 30. As I have already explained, we have not chosen to do so. We did not want to raise that threshold in any other way, but instead opted for a system in which allocated debates lapse over time if they are not scheduled, with, of course, the possibility of extending an application for a while longer. We believe that this will give us a better picture of the requests for debate which are still topical. Sometimes, for example, subjects will have been sufficiently discussed in a committee in the meantime, which may cause the application to lapse. Mr Van Otterloo asked a question about the majority required in the case of requests for debate, namely whether a qualified minority could not be enough. In fact, we do not see any advantages in introducing a new form alongside the existing majority debate, thirty-member debates and interplay debates. That is why we did not choose to do so. Mr Van Otterloo also asked about the possibility of bringing together debates and steering some more in the planning. In itself, that is a useful thought. You can see that happening in practice. But it's hard for us to imagine rules that you say: if you do that, you can automatically streamline them. To find a way in, we leave more to the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u76	On that last point. I am now experiencing that it depends on the occasional presence of Members who have or have no insight into what else is planned, whether suggestions are being made. My idea was to consider, at a later stage, whether it would be possible to combine a particular proposal. This can be done either in committee or in any other way. It makes too much of the impression on me now that we are making snap decisions. Whether this can be combined now depends on whether the spokesperson is present on that part at the time. That was the thrust of my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u77	I understand that point very well. It is also in line with our suggestion that the threshold for requesting debates in plenary should be raised a little by making the arrangements for work more scarce, and that the committee's entry should be made easier with this arrangement of work in committee. It may well be so, and we would welcome it if committees would then look at questions such as "what debates have all been requested in our domain?', "Can we consider for ourselves which committee debates will take place in the coming period in which these issues can be taken into account?" And 'what exactly do we want a plenary debate on in committee?' I have noticed in the past that if you think better at committee level about what you want to have a debate on in plenary and what you want to do in committee, you are also more likely to be able to accept a request. So that is also an incentive to look very closely within the committee at what can be combined and what you want to discuss in committee or in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u78	In conclusion, Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u79	It would be very good for the committee to have an overview of the plenary debates that are in the pipeline and to look at the other debates that have already been requested, so that there really is a better picture of what is being done. That's not happening right now. There's only a list of letters now. More and more letters are also added to the agendas of consultations, which are then overloaded with topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u80	I think it is a valuable suggestion from Mr Van Otterloo. He actually says to the committee chairmen, who are listening to you now: realize what your own list looks like, what you do in committee, what you do in plenary and how you make your choice. I say this in the light of the fact that it is striking that there are a lot of plenary debates in one committee on a particular subject, whereas that subject is much more often dealt with in another committee in a committee debate. If you are more aware of this, you can also ask yourself whether there are now plenary debates on subjects where we think it is important to discuss them in plenary, however different we think about them. So thank you for that suggestion. Somewhat related to this is Mr Van Meenen's question about the late times at which we sometimes meet and the pressure that that puts on ourselves and our staff. There was also Mr Van Raak's heart cry about this. I fully support Mr Van Meenen on this point. We fully agree that we must pay close attention to this. It is not just about overheating parliamentary work, but also about a good work-private balance of Members and the willingness of Members to continue to work in this way. I see too many Members of Parliament dropping out prematurely because they simply think the impact on their private lives is too great. You can say 'that's part of the political work', but you can also say: no, we want to look critically at whether we could limit ourselves a little more in the times when debates are taking place. The curfew of 7:00 p.m. that we now have has been set by the President himself. It can be maintained fine after the curfew period has expired, if Members agree. We'll take care of it ourselves. When the President and I came in here in 1998, let me remind you that we did not have any meetings on Thursday evening. It was not customary to hold a plenary session on Thursday evening. On Wednesday morning there was no plenary sitting, because then the Bureau spoke. We have all used it to extend it ever further, and so there is always a time for the Chamber itself, perhaps even for the members of the new Chamber, to determine what we normally think for debates that are taking place and to what time they can extend. We deleted the provision to meet until 11 p.m. because it had simply become obsolete. Then there is no point in leaving that provision. That's another example. You can put something nice in a regulation, but if it doesn't live, it doesn't work. So it is a question of examining the wishes of the House of Commons to limit us to the length of the debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u81	Very briefly, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u82	Yeah, one comment. Until 1994, it was very common to meet in the evening and until deep into the night. From 1994 to 1998, a kind of office staff came in and went home at 5 p.m. So there's a break in history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u84	I will not say that this break was wrong, because I agree that the burden on individual Members should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u85	It is good that we put everything in a historical perspective, but I see that the boss is above all when it comes to dates and years and so on. I didn't get in until 2010. I know the whole thing pretty well, too, but before then I could only watch it on TV. Mr. Van der Staaij, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Markuszower's question on the speaking time of directors during debates. It has not been Maximised, while Members of Parliament have to stick to tight speaking time. The result is that, he says, some rulers are talking for a very long time, for example by making extensive introductions. We understand that annoyance. I also see that an amendment was tabled at a late stage in respect of item No. 37. I got it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u87	Mr Markuszower has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u88	Mr Van der Staaij has got to me, in so far as I have indeed tabled two amendments, but not necessarily to restrict the right of the rulers to speak. I just filed them because I didn't figure out what was wise. It is a desire to limit speaking time, but how do you do that? There is still an orderly debate to be held. I didn't come out entirely, I'm telling you quite honestly. I didn't have the brainpower of a whole committee behind me either. So for the time being, I will leave it to the President of the sitting to ensure that we have a good meeting in which everyone can have a good exchange of views. The amendments that I have tabled perhaps help me in what I intended in my speech, namely to ensure that the rulers at least answer the questions that are being asked and that they do not have the time, so to speak, to talk about them. So in so far as my amendments are concerned, they do not completely solve the real problem of long-winded rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u89	Thank you for the explanation. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u90	I will deal with the amendments that have been tabled later. Here's what else. It is now possible, under the Rules of Procedure, to limit the speaking time of the members of the government. It's okay. The disadvantage of not really being used in practice as very hard speaking time is, I think, that there is a risk that due to detailed introductions there is not enough attention to address critical questions on the part of the Chamber. That's another unwanted effect. That is why we do not want to propose making much more active use of the possibility offered by the regulation. But of course it is an art, and I also see the President doing so regularly to keep the rulers brief and concise. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to oral Question Time, to which Mr Markuszower and Mr Van Raak have asked for it. In the report, too, political groups raised questions about this. We indicated earlier that we had thought about whether improvements could be made to oral Question Time. The debate on this has been going on for a long time. A recurring wish is to increase the liveliness of Question Time. We have put forward proposals to make things less tight. To sort of code it less and to say more: you have a few minutes of speaking time and you decide how to divide it exactly, whether you want to do it in different stages, or whether you want to do a longer story in one go. The strict nature of this part of Question Time is thus abandoned. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the possibility of an interview at a fixed point in the week. We do not see the added value of this proposal, in addition to all the existing possibilities that already exist. That is why we have not implemented this proposal. Mr Markuszower also asked about the allocation of oral questions for Question Time. This is another example in which a power of confidence has been placed in the hands of a President of the Chamber. The President has already informed us of her method of selection. It uses official advice based on criteria such as topicality, urgency and weight. As a working group, we say that we think this is a good way of working and see no reason to deviate from it. Mr Markuszower also asked for a register of Members' requests for debate or for oral Question Time. In addition, Mr Van der Molen asked about the possibility of a digital Rules of Procedure showing all the changes, a kind of continuous evaluation. I would also like to leave it to the President to respond if he so wishes, because these are actually more practical proposals on how to deal with them. All new registers and digital designs also require administrative and financial capacity to realize them. Then I come to point 7, the constitutional review and the legislative initiative proposals. Mr Bishop asked about the provision on the introduction of an initiative legislative proposal for a constitutional revision at second reading. The President has a role to play in this proposal. You can read further in Rule 9.30 the way in which the President has a role to play in this. More generally, the objective behind this provision is to launch the second reading of constitutional reform proposals as soon as possible. In the event that political groups or groups do not act themselves, the President shall, of his own motion, have a second reading of the proposal brought before him, achieve that objective. It is then up to the Chamber itself to decide on the future course of the proposal. Mrs Kuik asked about the advice on own-initiative legislative proposals. Its experience was that, when consulted on an initiative proposal, not all interested parties would come forward with a standard response. She wondered whether an automatism could be created for this. We understand the discontent. It is indeed reasonable to receive advice, if requested, in response to an own-initiative proposal. We do not see any possibility of requiring others to do so by means of the Rules of Procedure; as I said, it is more self-binding than binding on third parties with the Rules of Procedure. But if more colleagues recognise this problem, the Working Method Committee could be asked to identify the problems that arise in practice and what solutions could be found. In response to Mrs Kuik's comments on lobbying routes, the working group also strongly encourages all members to give as much openness as possible on the preliminary stage of an initiative legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I come to the other questions and amendments. Mr Bishop also asked whether it could be included in the Rules of Procedure to abstain from the use of offensive language. As Mr Bishop wishes, it remains in the Rules of Procedure that everyone should refrain, inter alia, from using offensive expressions and disturbing the Rules of Procedure. If it does occur, there is a President to warn the speaker concerned and to allow him to take back the words. And there are even further possibilities provided for in the Rules of Procedure: to take the floor, and even to exclude the sitting. There are, therefore, instruments and sanctions to prevent such abuses. And of course, because we all see that happening, it is a good thing that members take responsibility for addressing others. Mr Van Haga made a few comments about split-ups and the arrangements that exist. We have joined the work of the Bishop working group, which correctly updated these provisions a number of years ago. We see no reason to make new changes to that now. Nor have we noticed that there is a wide-ranging desire to re-enter this debate or to adapt its results. Then I come to a number of amendments that have not yet been discussed. First of all, Mr Van Gent and Mr Bishop's amended amendment on a Chamber decision within nine months of a report on a citizens' initiative. That is the amendment to item No. 23. We have virtually no hard mines in the Reglement of Order, but we can well imagine, also in the light of the practice of citizens' initiatives where this sometimes took too long, that you do set a clear standard for this in the Rules of Procedure. That is why we leave the judgement on this, on the amendment to item No. 23, please, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u91	The amendment in part No. 23: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u92	Then we have the amendment to item No. 15, tabled by Ms Özütok and Mr Van Meenen, on the citizens' initiative: reducing the age for submitting and supporting a citizens' initiative. So far, it is true that the age of majority is required, which also means that it is linked to the right to vote. We are abstaining from any judgment on this matter. This can be considered differently, and we have not spoken about it. We would like to point out that, among other things, in the demand for the right to vote for the Lower House, the requirement of Dutch citizenship is also decided, and that the right to vote for the Lower House is not excluded. If the proposers want to maintain these requirements, it is on the way to adapt the amendment to this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u93	Thank you. First of all, I note that it has not received any explicit appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u94	We are abstaining from judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u95	Yes, that's exactly how it was described on the list that I was just given by the clerk, so that goes for the other one where it was stated: "no judgment'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u96	Yes, in part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u97	An interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u98	We understood that there could be some uncertainty about how the amendment should be read: whether it is only for Dutch citizens or for others. We really only want to reduce the age from 18 to 16 years, and continue to keep the rules as they are now, including those of Dutch citizenship. But we will amend the amendment so that it is also clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u99	Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u100	Thank you for this explanation and supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u101	So there will be an adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u102	Yes. We would also point out that the majority requirement for citizens' initiatives does not follow directly from the Rules of Procedure, but from Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Petitions and the Citizens' Initiatives. There has recently been a review of this arrangement, on which the Court is likely to decide in the near future. There is no provision for this scheme, so that choice was not made there. I think it would be good to point that out. In this context, it is also important for Mr Van Gent to have tabled an amendment to stop mentioning in the Rules of Procedure to which a citizens' initiative cannot relate, because this is actually already covered by the rules I mentioned earlier. That is the amendment to item No. 29. We are abstaining on the question of whether you wish to settle this in the Rules of Procedure or in the Rules of Procedure. But we do understand the idea that you don't want to double-do it. It's one of two. Mr Van Gent proposed not to do so in the Rules of Procedure but in the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, we are neutral and leave the judgement to the Court to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u103	Well, I guess I'll just have to see how I put it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u104	Let's just say "remember."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u105	In the first instance, therefore, there is no explicit appreciation. That is how I see it: no explicit appreciation of the amendment on item No. 29. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u106	Then an amendment has been tabled on the introduction of an experiment with a so-called 'citizen' amendment. We note that the Chamber has recently rejected a motion by Mr Raemakers requesting this experiment. There are differences of opinion in the Chamber. We are also abstaining from a judgment. The choice is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u107	This is about the amendment to item No. 26: No explicit appreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u108	Then there is an amended amendment by Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Özütok to item No. 32, on the way in which the committees control the annual reports, and in particular the annual plan of the committees and the method of appointment of rapporteurs. We support the idea behind the amendment. In itself, the rules already provide for the appointment of rapporteurs. So it's not necessary, but it's up to the Chamber, if she wants it even more extensive and explicit. Here too, we are abstaining from judging.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u109	Then I note that there is also the amendment on item No. 32 is not an explicit appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u110	Yes, and that also applies to the amendment on item No. 34 by Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Özütok, on hearings with candidate directors. We would point out that this is really a big issue, which raises fundamental constitutional questions. In the long history, a similar initiative proposal was also submitted by former MP Halsema in 2005. So it affects the relationship between government and parliament. We saw no immediate need or reason to propose the proposed approach on this occasion. It will be clear that there are differences of opinion within the working group as well. We are therefore abstaining from a substantive assessment of this matter. We would point out, however, that the amendment suggests that the hearings of candidate directors are organised by the Chamber. One technical point: the hearing is an instrument of the committees. So that is another question of impact which is linked to this amendment, in addition to the questions of state law that are at issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u111	Thank you. I note, then, that on the amendment to item No. Thirty-four of them were given a piece of advice. Anyway, I don't have to establish that here. For the rest, I can say that there is no specific appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u112	Yes. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 24 by Mr Sjoerdsma and a number of other Members.......................................................................................................................................................................................... As Mr Van Gent mentioned in the first term, the States-General received a number of Heads of State and Prime Ministers in the last century. The reception took place in a changing setting through both Chambers, in a unified meeting or in official meetings. If a reception is requested in an official meeting of the House of Representatives, no explicit regulation is required. In fact, the proposed regulation makes provision, more in practical terms, for the seats of other persons invited by the Chamber. These general articles also lend themselves to the application to Heads of State or Government. In addition, foreign heads of state or government will normally also be accompanied by our Prime Minister or another minister and can also be considered to assist the govern ment. So the rules already have certain entrances. There are also practical concerns, such as the language used, but the text of the regulation does not create any direct obstacles in this respect. In the opinion of the working party, there is no urgent need for a specific regulation in the Rules of Procedure, but, as I said, we are abstaining and leaving it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u113	I note with regard to the Amendment No 1 tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 24: no explicit appreciation. A brief interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u114	I first hear a lot of ifs, buts and things that really do not need to be arranged and then Mr Van der Staaij says after them: but we are abstaining from judgment. What is important to establish, perhaps in the first term of the Chamber in the debate on the interruption between Mr Van Gent and myself, is that if you want to settle this formally well, you can only do so in a united meeting; you can, for example, let a foreign head of state sit in the back of the benches, because there is nothing that opposes it, but we want that particular person there. Well, that can only be done now in a united meeting. That's what he's got to decide. The Lower House cannot therefore decide on its own whether to have a foreign head of state or a foreign head of government speak here. That is the essence of this amendment. I understand that there is still something to be done, but we do want to open up this possibility and many others in this Chamber too. I wanted to explain this, particularly in the direction of Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u115	Thank you. I therefore gave you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u116	Still a little while. Good to hear that explanation, but other people can also be invited to attend a meeting and get the floor. The fact that it may not always have been used also says something about how these considerations are, but it is not the case that the regulation makes it impossible. It is more whether the Chamber wishes it or whether it is used. Of the more implicit possibilities now available, the proposers now want to make a more explicit possibility. There is also a certain stimulating thought, in the sense of: that should actually happen more. Well, then it's someone's right to make that proposal, and it's up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u117	So the appreciation remains the same, even after the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u118	Mr Dijkhoff has tabled an amendment for a regulation on the withdrawal and replacement of members of the Intelligence and Security Services Commission. We understand the CIVD's desire to make arrangements for the withdrawal of members and, as a result, to be able to fill in the open place. We also do not appreciate this amendment in respect of item No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u119	I note that the amendment to item No. 28 does not receive explicit appreciation as advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u120	Then a number of new amendments have been introduced since last night, and I will also respond to them. I have also noticed, however, that as far as the procedure of the Chamber is concerned, and so it will also be in the case of legislative proposals, it is often a complaint that amendments which are tabled very late may be at risk of being discussed less carefully. The practice is that you don't spend a night sitting in front of it all. So it is in itself the recommendation on legislative work that amendments should be tabled as early as possible. But here too, we have not explicitly regulated this, because we also recognise that there may be all kinds of special reasons for doing it differently. I shall now turn to the Van der Molen/Omtzitt amendment. 35 on the explicit mention of the article-by-article examination of legislative proposals. We actually deleted that point of the article-by-article discussion because we noticed that it has not been used in practice for many years. If you do want to, you can do it without making any explicit arrangements. So it is not necessary to include it in the Rules of Procedure, but if you want to recommend and encourage that this is going to happen, then it is obvious that an amendment should be tabled as it has now been tabled. As a committee, we are abstaining from an opinion on it. It is up to the political groups to decide on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u121	I note, then, that there is no explicit appreciation of the amendment on item No. 35 is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u122	Then we have the amendment to item No. 36 by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Omtzigt on the revival of the Committee on Government Expenditure. An amendment has been tabled to re-introduce the National Expenditure Commission. We would point out that at the end of 2016, after an experiment and an extensive evaluation, the Chamber decided to transfer the tasks of the former National Expenditure Committee to the Permanent Committee for Finance. This was, among other things, to increase the focus on issues relating to government expenditure, including efficiency. The Bureau has also written an extensive letter to the Chamber on this subject. That's the letter with piece number 12 (31597), which is about experiments and evaluation. I would also like to refer to Rules of Procedure 34624, in which the Chamber proposes an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Against this background, we have made no proposal to reverse this and we advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u123	The amendment in part No. 36 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u124	That is remarkable in itself, because so far many amendments have been passed to us without explicit advice, because the Chamber can look at them very differently. So I'd like to go into that "dissuade" after all. The fact that these amendments were tabled a little later than around the first period in which we discussed them also has everything to do with the fact that the Chamber looked in the mirror, in part, in response to the Van Dam report on the premium affair. It also found that this Chamber failed when it came to settling legislation that has an impact on people's lives but also on the implementation of the legislation that the Chamber adopts. There are two proposals. There is the proposal for the article-by-article examination, which the CDA believes should be made known to members of parliament that it can take place in order to properly screen legislation. But certainly the proposal relating to the Committee on National Expenditure is, as far as we are concerned, in line with those opinions. I would therefore very much like to hear from Mr Van der Staaij a reflection on whether the Chamber is doing enough to monitor the implementation. He said, "Yes, good; we don't do it anymore." That is exactly what the Van Dam report says: we are doing too little. How does Mr Van der Staaij view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u125	First of all, why a slightly sharper operative part here? That was motivated for me by the fact that quite recently, only a few years ago, after a careful process, it was decided to stop. Then it sounds like a yo-yo policy to do it now. But I listened very carefully to Mr Van der Molen. He says that the Chamber must continue to learn from what goes wrong. He asked whether instruments that had previously become unused should not be put back on the table. Against this background, I am prepared, on behalf of the working party, to update the opinion: we leave the appreciation to the Chamber itself. Yes, there must be some movement in a debate! We also have to honor the right arguments. A rare moment!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u126	In any case, I note that, following an interruption by Mr Van der Molen, there is no explicit appreciation of the amendment on item No. 36 is given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u127	I should like to see the amendment on item No. 37. And then I hope I'm really here. Or have new amendments been tabled in the meantime? I'll find out. Or we'll come back to that in the second term. But I believe that with the amendment to item No. 37 complete the list. That is an amendment tabled by Mr Markuszower on the obligation of ministers to reply and on the failure to include a request for an answer to an earlier question such as interruption. We do not wish to recommend this amendment, because it is difficult to say: this is not an interruption, but this is a request for an answer, and that does not count for the number. That seems to us to be giving rise to much more discussion. We would rather leave it to the President to determine whether there has not been a proper answer to a question and that a request to answer that question does not therefore count in the number of interruptions. We say: do not judge it further, but leave it with the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u128	Mr Markuszower, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u129	It is a good practice for the President to continue to determine the order of the sitting and to address questions and answers to both members of parliament and directors. But it is also unpleasant to have to discuss such a debate with a chairman and have to say: 'no, Madam or Mr President, this was not an interruption, because I asked a question'. It seems to us to be more useful if it is simply written more clearly in the Rules of Procedure, so that such a govern ment person, who is actually just a guest here, knows what to expect. Sometimes such a provision also helps in advance and it can be a kind of preventive effect, which such a ruler knows: "Oh yes, in this house the rules of the game are that a question is asked and that you have to answer it immediately; I can't get away with not doing that." Too often I see rulers thinking of getting away with it simply by talking about it and anticipating the fact that Members of Parliament are bound by a limited number of interruptions. I think it will be a more enjoyable debate not to constantly bully with the President that something was not interrupting, but simply to say clearly: 'I have my interruptions and I insist that the ruler responds to the question'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u130	Clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u131	I understand Mr Markuszower's problem. However, we do not think that this really solves it, because with this wording you can also have another discussion with the President: 'In our opinion, this is a question that has not been sufficiently answered'. For example, the President could say: 'You have had an answer, but it was not the answer you wanted'. What you can now get into discussion is not really going to solve this point, because what is written here is actually the practice that a chairman will not include such an interruption. That is actually the norm that exists when it comes to repeating a question that has not been answered at all. So in that sense, we agree. But there is also another part of this amendment, which is based on the obligation to provide information. The Ministers shall provide information, unless it is reasonably impossible or contrary to the interests of the State. That is actually all Article 68 of the Constitution says. In fact, the Rules of Procedure do not bind outsiders, i.e. ministers, with them either. If you don't get enough intelligence, then you actually need other tools to do it. That is why we do not see the added value of this, and that is another element why we have tabled this Amendment No 2. 37 dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u132	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 37 The judgment has been discouraged. We also have an amendment, No. 38, received from member Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u133	That is indeed a simple amendment, namely that the President may allow a maximum number of interruptions if the Chamber approves them. That would therefore delay the decision on the number of interruptions from the President to the Chamber. We deliberately did not seek to change that. That is why we do not recommend this amendment to item No. 38 because we really think it is wise to leave it with the President. I also see very often that there is a fine delegation going to the Chamber and that the President, on the basis of consensus and feeling of the debate, is trying to deal with it wisely. So we do not recommend this amendment in respect of item No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u134	I note that the amendment to item No. 38 is not recommended. I think we have almost had the amendments, because of the amendment to item No. 31 would be returned, so I have been noted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u135	Yeah, that's true. That is the amendment to which the President refers, on the register of commitments, where the questions are indeed more practical than the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u136	Thank you. Let's just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u137	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make one last comment and also draw attention to the follow-up to the vote. First of all, I would like to suggest that, after the votes, the text of the proposals adopted and renumbered and the comparative summary should be printed as a Chamber, as we have proposed for future amendments to the Rules of Procedure, so that it is immediately clear, including from the Acts, which text has finally been adopted. Otherwise, it's pretty complicated to find out. Finally, the entry into force of the revised regulation. The proposal states that it will take place at a time to be specified by the Court. A separate decision will therefore have to be taken. Due to the lengthy delay in the finalisation of this bill, the special feature of the Chamber's meeting is that it is still very limited in the current setting. So there are only a few moments left for that. We would like to suggest to the President that a proposal be put forward very quickly if the new Rules of Procedure were to come into force if they were to reach the end of the line. Mr President, that is my first contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u139	I give the floor to our President-in-Office to answer a number of outstanding questions and to assess an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the working group for the work they have done over the past period. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for all the efforts he has made recently, together with the working group. The last revision of the Rules of Procedure was in 1994. So it was time that the rules were held against the light. It is one of the most important documents for us as House of Representatives. It describes how we do our work, and that is why it is very good that the document goes along with its time, that it is up-to-date and appropriate to the here and now. The review has been a huge job. The working group has not only looked at the content of the regulation, but also at the way in which our rules are written down. The working group found and considers it important that the regulation is consistent and that everyone understands what it says. To the outside world remained a little hidden what it took the working group, which has been broadly composed, almost all the groups were in it, all of which took time and energy. We have been in regular contact with Mr Van der Staaij, also as Bureau, over the past period, and he has given a presentation twice. We've also shared our experiences. The involvement of the working party members was really very special and very much appreciated. But there is also great commitment from the Chamber, given the number of amendments I expect to have a few motions for resolutions and your input. It's very nice to see that. I would also like to thank the working group and the Members of Parliament for giving me the opportunity to discuss a number of things. Mr Van der Staaij has already replied a great deal and has also commented on many of the amendments. Let me start with a few brief general remarks. The Rules of Procedure are a very important instrument in terms of state law. It is the result of the Constitution and it determines our day-to-day work. As Mr Van der Staaij rightly said, it is our own rules, which we ourselves lay down, which emphasise the independence of the House of Representatives. In addition to these established rules, we also have our own daily, unwritten practice, our parliamentary habits and rituals, our working arrangements and our interpretations of the rules. They determine the way we work here. These informal rules, as well as the knowledge about them, are very important. In fact, we are talking about the institutional memory of the Chamber. There have also been changes in this regard. Over the years, we have always adapted our working methods to the prevailing spirit of time and invented new forms of work. A good example is the current corona crisis. We have looked at how we can continue to fulfil our controlling and co-legislative role, and at the same time how we can comply with all the measures that apply to us. It is in our nature to continue looking for improvements, not only in order to be able to do our parliamentary work properly, but also to make our work and our debates visible and insightful to the people of the country. The revision of the Rules of Procedure contributes to this, but it is more than regulation. Our informal rules, our style of debate, the way in which we as MPs operate ourselves, also determine our way of working. If we want to make changes, for example in reducing the number of debates, this calls for more than an update of the Rules of Procedure. We in the Chamber have a responsibility in that. That responsibility applies to all 150 Members of Parliament. The working group also talks about this in its final report. They call it 'a cultural change' and I would also like to quote Carla Hoetink in that connection. We are a fan of hers, I understand. She's been promoted to our culture and our rules. Then I'll answer all the questions. She says that the way in which we as a Chamber deal with our formal rules and powers is largely determined by our parliamentary culture. It calls parliamentary culture "the back of the parliamentary process of co-legislative, control and representation." "What MPs do and leave, what tools they use, what practices they disapprove or accept, depends in important make on that culture." This certainly applies to the number of debates, but not only to the number of motions, and so on. I fear that changing the Rules of Procedure will not really help very much if we do not dare to make this cultural change and feel the responsibility for it. I now turn to a number of amendments. Not all of them, but at least an amendment in which, in my view, Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van Meenen are asking for a register which makes it clear how motions and commitments will be dealt with. We have had this discussion before in the estimation, and I promised at that time that we would actually do so, and that I would do so in consultation with the chairmen of the standing committees. I did, and there's been a lot of scenarios worked out. We see that it is very different from committee to committee. There's one committee that does that very well, keeping track of everything. The other committees do less. But the discussion with the committee chairmen also showed that it is difficult. What is a promise? How do you ensure that that commitment is implemented? Sometimes a commitment is not to link to one Member of Parliament, but to three or four Members of Parliament, for example. In short, it is important. Because of the fact that you're putting it in every time, I think it's important to get to work on it. I am therefore giving that amendment judgment, Chamber, I would say if it were up to me. We're just gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u141	For the amendment to item No. 31 I therefore declare: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u142	Then there was also a comment about hearings with candidate directors. Mr Van der Staaij has said the necessary thing about this. I can tell you that we have discussed this before. That was when the 2012 cabinet formation was evaluated. Mrs Halsema has already been mentioned with her proposal, as has Mr Schouw's motions. There were all sorts of practical but also constitutional objections at the time. I do not know whether it will help, and I am looking at Mr Van Meenen, for example, that I will forward to you, for the votes, the note which was worked out at the time and which sets out all the advantages and disadvantages. In the end, the Chamber, as well as the Bureau, said: we do not do that. I'd like to send it to you with all my love, so that you can still look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u143	In any case, that leads to an interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u144	I look forward every day to receiving the President's mail, so I will be receiving it with love. But it is not going to change our minds. In the past, the Chamber has rejected proposals that have eventually been successful. One of the reasons now is the parliamentary self-reflection that has been carried out. The committee makes it very clear that I will also say something about this in my second term in order to open this option as a strengthening of our democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u145	It sounds very attractive and very interesting, but there are constitutional bottlenecks to it, such as the swearing-in of rulers. Of course, it's done by the King. No one knows who it's gonna be for that. Your proposal is to bring the directors who are not yet members of the government to the Chamber. That is literally what your amendment says: with a hearing, people's representatives will be given the opportunity to question candidates for their suitability for the position, policy area, their behaviour and their views in the past, and so on. So you, as a chamber, share responsibility, I think, for naming a ruler. The role of the Chamber is different from that of the government. The moment we do not do so, you keep the possibility that the Chamber, as a ruler, cannot function or anything else is going on, can send such a person home. But if you're jointly held responsible, it's pretty complicated, regardless of the constitutional bottlenecks. At that time, all these issues were fully resolved. I do not want to judge, but think carefully about that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u146	That's been considered, too. It is not for nothing that the explanatory statement explicitly states that the appointment is ultimately made by the government itself and not by the Chamber. We are really not doing anything about that. But there are still a lot of very decent countries, even in democratic terms, which we also mention in the amendment, where this is just happening. There's nothing to worry about. We are doing it, with all due respect and without prejudice to the powers of those who ultimately have to decide on the appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u147	It is true that there are other countries that do, but they have different types of legislation. The government has been put together in a different way and the role of parliament is different there. But once again, I am sending the note to Mr Van Meenen and it is ultimately up to the Chamber to vote in favour or not. Then there was also the issue of fixed-time voting. Mr Van der Staaij has said the necessary thing about this. Of course, I agree with everyone that the pressure on Members of Parliament is enormous; I have said that on many occasions. Until deep into the night meetings and votes that are unpredictable sometimes lead to unrest. You don't know what you're up to. Some have to catch the train and so on. We all know that. But if we're gonna do it, we're gonna have to do it right. You notice in practice that fixed times are almost impossible to maintain. We had recently, for example, the bill on the Kieswet related to corona. We had to get through the room fast. We had to vote on that quickly. The bill was on the voting list, but in the afternoon the vote was postponed until dinner break, during the dinner break the vote was postponed until the end of the sitting, etc. Sometimes that's not such a problem, but it's no exception. So if we do it and we do not live up to it in practice, then we will also break our own rules. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij on this point. Then there was also a question left to me about the digital committee. That was Mr Van der Molen's question to include in the Rules of Procedure a standing committee on digital matters, but a motion was adopted to regulate it. So I think it's okay that if a motion has been passed by the Chamber, we'll just do it and try it out. We do not yet know whether we will have a minister or department for digital matters after the elections. That depends on it. If it works properly, you can always include it in the Rules of Procedure. But to do it right now... I think it's wise to just try it out in practice. That is the disadvantage for me and for Mr Van der Staaij: because we are longer on the road, it has advantages, but it also has disadvantages. They were then set up, and after two or three years we saw that it didn't work. So I hope and think that this committee certainly meets a great need, but I would say: try it out first. A number of questions have been asked about times when important debates are taking place. I think those belonged to Mr Van Meenen. Is that right? You forgot yourself? Then I'll skip it; that saves time! He doesn't remember what he asked. No, he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u148	I have the impression that Mr Van Meenen knows what he has asked, but I suspect that someone else has asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u149	Of course, he's talking about moving on until deep into the night. Mr Van der Staaij also said something about this. The Rules of Procedure stated 11 p.m., but in practice we have not always achieved that, let me put it this way. Eventually, it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u150	That would encourage Mr Van Meenen to do a very small interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u151	Forgive me for interrupting so much, but I also have many amendments. That's kind of what it comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u152	But we have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u153	I understand, and I'm really trying. I'm just the one who wants it to hurry up, that we'll be done in time and so on. That starts in the morning, because what we do in the morning has effect at the end. Mr Van der Staaij and I spoke briefly about the role of the motion of censure. There is an amendment that deals with fixed times, which, of course, allows exceptions, for example, if there is an international summit which we need to know what we give our rulers and so on. But the motion of censure has been explicitly mentioned as something we should not make an exception for. That would have to be done at a fixed time. Mr Van der Staaij said as a counter-argument: you have to weigh it all up, sometimes it is important to do it right away and sometimes it is not. But does the President agree with me that you can only have that weighting moment when there is that motion and that we are very often sitting here waiting until deep into the night to see whether there will be that motion of censure, if indeed how heavy it is, whether it will be a motion of censure or a motion of censure or whatever? Does she agree with me that this phenomenon should be stopped? We can only do that by taking it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u154	Thank you. The question is clear. Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u155	In the past, motions of mistrust or disapproval were simply rare, but these have not been the case lately. In the end, it is the Chamber that decides. I remember a motion of censure being tabled. I asked everyone if they wanted to vote on it, because it was fine tomorrow. A majority wanted the motion to be voted on the same day, because it was not supposed to stay in the air. But we recently had a motion of censure, in my view, from Mr Van Haga, who was just between hundreds of motions. We just didn't vote on that before. The next day or the next week we voted on it. I understand the intention and it would help us all if we knew exactly when we were going to vote. Then everyone knows that, including the group staff, the staff, the officials and so on. Only the practice is just unruly. We can try, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u156	I think that practice is also uncomfortable because there is no rule. What the President is saying is that we are going to weigh this up when the motion is tabled. "Do you want to vote on it now or not?" Then it's three o'clock in the morning, then we've been here all night, all of us, including the employees. That can only exist if you know that the option is that you will vote on it immediately. If that option isn't there anymore, it can't be. Then it's the next day or the next. That's my plea. I'm not saying that because I'm sorry, but just because it's killing us all slowly but surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u157	I agree with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u158	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u159	I agree with you that sometimes we drive each other crazy, that's true. I'm going to the schedule of work. That is now once a week, at least in plenary. Questions were asked about this in the first term. Mr Van der Staaij has said the necessary thing about this. We tried because of corona to have an arrangement once a week. The arrangement is incredibly important for the Chamber to be able to set its agenda. That happened three times a week so far. I note, however, that a regulation once a week since Corona led to a great deal of fuss behind the scenes, namely that Members of Parliament who would like to raise something would try to do so through an additional regulation. The current Rules of Procedure state that additional rules of procedure are possible if there is a majority. It's always hard to find a majority. If the coalition, whichever coalition, says it doesn't want to, it's almost an instrument that's only reserved for a majority in the Chamber. I also note that it is not always visible to everyone what is being discussed and agreed behind the scenes, while when we do it in plenary, people can also see why there is or is not support for a debate on a particular subject. The arguments then exchanged are also important. I understand very well that the working group says that a lot of debates are currently being requested through the regulation and that we have a huge list of debates that cannot be planned. I understand that very well. By doing it once a week and the rest through the committee, you can influence that a little bit, but I would suggest that we weigh the pros and cons against each other in the short time that we may have an arrangement once a week. It's complicated to send everyone away right now. If the President is given almost any kind of power to bring together an additional regulation, that will certainly lead to a lot of discussion. When are you going to approve or reject something as President, or to allow it or not to allow it? This can lead to a great deal of tension, including with political groups, while anyone can see who is for or against when it happens in public. That is something I am struggling with, but perhaps we should turn it against each other when we have some clarity about the arrangements for work in committees. I don't know how many times they'll happen. Maybe it doesn't work, I don't know, but I'll tell you that once a week works very restrictively at the moment. I also note that the regulation of work is very often looked at. People love to follow it. I always get compliments for the way in which we exchange information here with each other in the scheme. It is also very nice for citizens to see who is for and who is against a request and why a request is or is not accepted. Mr Van der Molen then made a kind of plea for a continuous evaluation of the Rules of Procedure by means of a digital Rules of Procedure. That's what you asked, isn't it? I don't know how you see it, but we could just see if we can do it in practice. I think you have said a lot about this too. Do you want me to go into that in practice? I think it is a good proposal in itself, but I would like to discuss with you how we can implement it in practice. Furthermore, it is always important that you can read back everything we do here in the Acts. That in itself is very easy to find. The introduction of such a platform will cost time and energy, but we are just going to see if that is feasible. Mr Van der Staaij has already said the necessary things about the numbering of motions, so I shall skip that. Mr Markuszower's question on oral Question Time. I've already sent a letter stating all the criteria. Sometimes, as President, you also have to say: there are all kinds of advice not to do it, but in the light of current events, we do. In such a situation, it is nice that you, as President, have that power. All questions will be announced, so not just the questions passed through. All questions are always made public. In this respect, everyone can therefore see which questions have been announced and which questions have finally been passed on. Mr Van Gent asked a question on the Rules of Procedure in crisis time. We've been in the middle of a crisis lately when it comes to corona. One thing is certain, and that is that the Rules of Procedure have not in any way been obstructive in order to be able to act on matters in crisis time. It is not for nothing that the Rules of Procedure have lasted all these years. It is certain, but at the same time a great deal of room is being offered to depart from it. That worked out fine. Finally, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij's working group on strengthening the committees. All kinds of proposals are being made and we will do everything we can to make that possible. I am glad for that too, because it is often said "Oh, that happens in a back room and that is not visible," but it is not. The committee debates are equally important and it is incredibly important to pay attention to them. The committees must also be equipped in such a way that they are able to function fully and with all the instruments they have. That also requires something from the Presidents. It may not be so explicit in the Rules of Procedure, but it is intended to train, coach, guide or support the chairmen of the committees in such a way that they can fulfil that role in order to ensure that the committees function properly and fully. Let's see if I forgot something. I see you all looking at "when's she gonna stop?', "and we can have lunch.'. I have talked about the extra regulation and the late timing introduced by Mr Van Meenen. Mr Markuszower made the point of speaking time. I agree with him that directors can also be brief, but I didn't understand that the other day when they were introduced, I didn't know that they often get the advice to keep general introductions. That's exactly what they shouldn't do. I am not going to name names, but I sometimes have conversations with rulers who are guilty of long speaking time. It is also important to mention that we sometimes made a bit of criticism of interruptions there, for example that there may be two interruptions in two or in three. But if we're with ten spokesmen, it means 40 questions can be asked. It is then difficult to say to rulers "you only have half an hour," because then your questions are not answered properly. It is every time looking for a balance, I do justice to your input, but at the same time I also give ministers the opportunity to answer your questions. But it's still a complicated situation. Mr Van der Staaij has already said the necessary about the invitation of Heads of State. I don't remember a head of state being invited here in plenary by the House of Representatives. It is always with the united assembly, but once again: when Heads of State are invited, I also receive them as President of the House of Representatives, sometimes together with the First Chamber. But the Permanent Committee on Foreign Affairs also has an incredibly good role to play in the conduct of talks with foreign heads of state. It has sometimes occurred that there was a request from a Member of Parliament to invite a Head of State, and that has led to incredible political discussion. One loves a head of state and the other says "we don't want it here." So that's gonna be a job. As far as I'm concerned, I've tried to answer all the questions you've asked. And I know you well: if there's a question that hasn't been answered, I'm sure you'll come back to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u160	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first-term response. I suggest that we do the input immediately for the second term. Then, depending on how the input is, let me leave that to Mr Van der Staaij, see if he will answer right away or if we will suspend for lunch; then the lunch break can also be used for the preparation of the answer. But let's see how it works out. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the committee, specifically to Mr Van der Staaij, for answering the questions, and to the President of the Chamber, Mrs Arib, for answering the questions and the comments that have been made. I have now tabled two amendments. Mr Van der Staaij has given all his appreciation. And there's a third amendment I'm preparing, so it's being sent around. It may be sent around after this debate, but before the votes on it. It shall monitor that arrangement of work. Our group believes it is important that every Member of Parliament should be able to request debates on every Chamber's day and thus respond to what is important in the Netherlands at that time, and also adequately control the government. And it is not always predicted and it is not always framed on Tuesday, what is going on in the country and the need to carry out that control properly, so we will table an amendment to that. For the rest, I thank the committee once again for all its work and I hope that we as a Chamber will often change these Rules of Procedure, because that means that we have a lively Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u162	Thank you. Then we wait until the chair is clean and then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of GroenLinks, too, I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij, the members of his committee and, of course, the official support for their excellent work recently. We will finish just in time, just before the elections, so that the new Chamber can work for the first time since 1994 with a new Rules of Procedure. A number of things will really have to be figured out, how that will work in practice. But as GroenLinks, we believe that the committee's proposals lead to a better way of working, so we also want to support them. I believe that a number of amendments are going to be exciting if they are adopted, especially those on the hearings of directors. I think that is a thriller towards the final vote. I would like to conclude by really making one last plea to open that right to citizens' initiative to 16- and 17-year-olds. That's really something other than voting rights. We know that parties think differently about this, but it is also about giving 16- and 17-year-olds the opportunity to put subjects on the agenda. I believe that this is extremely important, so I hope that colleagues will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u164	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It can be very short. I too would like to thank the members of the committee. I would like to point out to the President of the Council, Mr Van der Staaij, that I think that we are all entering into this discussion. Well, sometimes I got the impression that there was something extra constitutional with the chairman of the committee, because the room for discussion on other possibilities was somewhat limited in my opinion. Just a few short points, starting with the interplay. I indicated it because I think that the oral questions are too short and do not call for sufficient attention. It's not going down. You can do that with the interplay. That's why I turned it in. That is a bit different from the fact that from Thursday to Tuesday morning there will be something on the front page of De Telegraaf which will require questions. It's about essential things. Then there's the workload. I agree, but I also notice that memory is a little short. In the Old Hall we had an extensive committee meeting every Monday from 11 a.m. to 11 a.m. It was about extensive notes, which are now also being done. In the distribution of work, this was also an opportunity to look at a reduction in workload. As a member of the Temporary Committee on the Digital Future, I can only say that I am in favour of that committee. It shouldn't be hanged from a regiment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, with regard to the separation of responsibilities at a hearing, the Chamber cannot be co-responsible, but the Chamber can taste kidneys. That should be the target.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u166	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u167	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with the words of thanks that others have already expressed to the Van der Staaij committee for the preliminary work she has done so that we can conclude it after today, with regard to the procedure of the Chamber and the adjustments to it. I would like to comment on the Committee on Digital Affairs. I heard both the President of the Chamber and the chairman of the committee say from their experience that in practice it has yet to be seen how such a committee works. That's right. But I quote Mr Van der Staaij's words: we often do not have the Rules of Procedure in our hands. It really is a well-lived wish in the Chamber to set up such a committee on digital matters, so it seems to me that it would be good on behalf of a number of other Members of Parliament to make use of this moment. The same applies to the redesign of the National Expenditure Commission. At this point there has been a very intense debate about what mistakes the Chamber has made in the orderly assessment of laws and how they are implemented. In the case of the surcharges, what would we have liked to have done further? Together with Mr Omtzigt, I strongly propose that this Committee on National Expenditure be re-established, also in order to show that we have learned lessons from what has gone wrong on our part. The same applies to the article-by-article examination which is possible. It has to be known. Members of parliament need to know that's possible. Mr. Chairman. There is no commitment registration yet. I have tabled an amendment with Mr Van Meenen, but I also have a motion on the digital regulation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that knowledge of the practical application of the Rules of Procedure is important for the proper functioning of the Chamber;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to establish the application of the Rules of Procedure, including precedents, digitally and publicly accessible;]] [[Whereas knowledge available to a wide public can contribute to better understanding and understanding of parliamentary procedures and practices;]] [[calls on the Bureau to examine the possibilities of digital memory in the Rules of Procedure, and to inform the Court of Justice of this when estimating for 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35322-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also quite prepared to speak on behalf of Mr Van Meenen, but perhaps he would also like to speak on his own behalf. I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Arib for their input. I particularly enjoyed the historic anecdote on how a previous Rules of Procedure were established in the Frisian town of Ee. In this context, I would like to point out that Mr Wiegel had a country house there, where he always gassed everyone on wine and food. I do not say that from my own experience, but under such circumstances, this type of important document may be produced more quickly. I've also heard a very clear struggle. We often talk about the tension between structure and culture. We can lay down the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but of course you also have a game concept and a game interface. I have also listened very carefully to Mr Van Raak and I always do so when it comes to his heart cry. I am thinking, for example, of the Council of State, which is talking about brutality. I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to say here that I personally think it is the greatest challenge of us as a Chamber that, in addition to all the'madness of the day' motions and debates, we should, above all, put a great deal of time into our role as co-legislator and in the enforcement, feasibility and legality of laws. I still think that's very important. Many amendments have been tabled, and I think we have treated them very well. We have submitted or submitted four of our own, which we will, of course, support. The other amendments and motions for resolutions will nevertheless be considered favourably. That leaves me with a motion I would like to table. I have listened carefully to Mrs Arib, but as I said in my first term, I think we should do something about emergency conditions. As I pointed out in my first term, the Presidium is about it, but I simply foresee a working group - Van der Staaij 2, in which we could make such an emergency arrangement on the outside of Mr Van der Staaij, outside the Hague bubble. That is why we are tabling this motion with Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van Meenen. According to the Rules of Procedure, I must now read the motion completely. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber contain rules on the deliberations and decisions of the Chamber;]] [[Whereas the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus in the Netherlands has led to far-reaching consequences for the functioning and work of the Chamber;]] [[considers that the Court should be as well prepared as possible for similar and other crises that may arise in the future;]] [[calls on the Bureau to set up a working group to examine how the Chamber can operate effectively in times of crisis, taking into account the state-law framework, specifically addressing crisis situations in which physical presence in plenary debate and decision-making is hampered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Gent, Van der Molen and Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35322-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u169	I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u170	Mr President, I have expected a third of the first-term speaking time, but I see 1 minute and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u171	Yeah, but that's what we do to keep things going a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u172	I understand that, but I would have liked to know that sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u173	Take your time and also look at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u174	I'm not looking at the clock. Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the working party and to Mr Van der Staaij, and also to our President for her opinions. We will be up-to-date again soon after 25 years with a more readable regulation and recognizable rules of play. As you know, I also worked with my group to see how we can make things even better, which led to eight amendments and a few more motions in a moment. This varies from fixed-time votes to motions in committee debates. The latter would, moreover, give 100 hours of VAOs in this Chamber out of a total of 400 hours of plenary sitting. So that's gonna cut it pretty good. The question is also whether it leads to more motions, because the great thing about tabling motions in committee debates is that as a committee you can put them in addition to the commitments. Sometimes it's been weeks. So I think it might eventually help. That's what I'm gonna give my colleagues. As for the health and well-being of others. I also exchanged it with both Presidents. That is a very important reason behind the fact that, at a fixed time, voting without exception of a motion of censure. I think I've made that clear. Mr. Chairman. If I may, I would like to raise two more issues. First of all, that's the hearing with candidate executives. The formation of a new cabinet is still surrounded by secrecy. While ministers and secretaries of state have a key role in our democracy, it is often unclear on the basis of which they have been selected and what their vision, knowledge and experience make them elected. Such a hearing gives the Chamber the opportunity to question the candidates and gives the candidates the opportunity to present themselves and their views. Then society can get to know them. In my view, the hearing could strengthen democratic control, while the power of appointment remains explicitly with the government. The second thing I want to highlight is the citizen's amendment. Almost three out of four people with a...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u175	I'm sorry, but I didn't realize Mr Van Gent was trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u176	I would like to ask two more questions about that hearing. I am particularly concerned about the argument why that would be good. This was discussed in the first period. Anyway, that amendment was just there. But then it was also said: look at the European Parliament, for example, or at municipal councils; that is where it takes place. But there is a cardinal difference, also from a constitutional point of view, namely that as a city council and, for example, as provincial states, you must vote literally on aldermen or delegates in this case. That is not the case for the House of Representatives. There's a substantial difference. The second point I would like to raise is the following. Another justification that is indicated is that it works so well in other countries. I just heard Mr Van Meenen say that. I have made it very clear that it is very good to do so in benchmarking, to look at best practices in other countries. I would like a more substantive response to that. We have our own political culture. The States General has existed since 1464, which has existed for a long time. It's grown so much here. To tell you one fundamental difference: we are very used to working with coalitions, which is not the case in other parliaments, in other governmental systems. I think we should just cherish our own traditions, how we have grown. That doesn't mean you shouldn't have to change it. But you have to be really careful to say: I think this is pretty well arranged in that country; let's take this over. I hear people about the way it is going in the English Parliament, often sighing: gosh, that's really very interesting to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u177	Clear. But the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u178	So the question is: Should we not cherish our own tradition and not say so easily: well, what can be done in other countries, we can also introduce that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u179	It is good that Mr Van Gent says this, because this is by no means my intention. We ourselves have a beautiful democratic tradition. I don't want to take any of that away. Nor do I say: let us take over the whole system from America, Israel or England here and transplant it like that. Not at all! That's not what I want. But one of our traditions is also that there is a great deal of cover-up in the formation of a government. It is quite strange that the first moment we are introduced to a ruler who plays an important role; much more important also than in some other countries is the moment when we see him standing on the border of the palace. Then we'll say, "Great, interesting." That's kind of weird when you take yourself seriously as a parliament. So I always say, with Mr Van der Staaij's words: investigate everything and preserve the good. Yes, we should. But research everything and improve it a little bit better. And this is something like that. This could reduce the veiling of that whole formation that is in our tradition. That's what I'm here for. I am in favour of an open process in which people really get a chance to show themselves in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u180	Thank you. Very briefly additional!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u181	Of course, this cover-up is also part of the tradition. But I would like another response to my comments. You come with other representatives of the people where they do. But I clearly state that they also have a very different role in that process. So it seems to me that that cannot actually serve as a justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u182	It's not meant to justify it either. It's not something we have to be afraid of. As a parliament and as a future government, we do not have to fear losing our own position here, but this is an element that is perfectly adaptable in our system, without changing that system further. Secondly, I would like to briefly mention the right of citizens' amendments. Almost three out of four people in the Netherlands feel no involvement in politics, says they have no influence and if that influence is already there, then it is at the front or at the back. What this amendment is monitoring is that influence can already be exercised during the process. That is something that I think can be very valuable and inviting for people to take advantage of. The proposal was made before and did not reach it at the time. I am looking in particular at Mr Markuszower and I am counting on him: a party that always stands for the influence of citizens, not at the front or at the back with a referendum, which is also a beautiful instrument, but in the middle, during the process. So you'll reconsider. Then I have three more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that debates on important matters are too frequent until deep into the night, while this does not improve the quality of the debate;]] [[Whereas the current end times also impose such a burden on MPs and employees that their health and well-being are affected, and this makes the work less attractive to new talent;]] [[calls on the Presidium to draw up proposals to address the current end times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35322-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u183	We are, of course, talking to the real survivors, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Arib. For almost 25 years they've been hanging in there, so I understand that they're looking at that a little lightly: it's got to be possible. But today's young people aren't like this anymore. Let's make sure everyone can survive this wonderful work in a good way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Members of Parliament have wasted a great deal of time reading all the recitals when tabling motions, while the pressure on the agenda of the Chambers is high;]] [[Whereas in several municipalities, including The Hague, applicants only read the operative part of the motion;]] [[Whereas this may save hours per week, provided that the maximum speaking time is also reduced;]] [[declares that, by way of derogation from Rule 8 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, it is desirable to launch an experiment in which only the operative part of the motions is read out in a number of Chamber committees and the corresponding maximum speaking time is reduced pro rata,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35322-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u184	This is a motion that could have been a lot shorter if I had only read the operative part. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas voting results of motions are published on the House of Representatives website and the Debate Direct app with motion title;]] [[noting that motion titles often cover only a limited amount of cargo, which may give the impression that parties are entirely for or against something, while the choice of vote may be based on the exact operative part or certain considerations;]] [[noting that this regularly leads to disinformation on social media in conjunction with the result of the vote;]] [[declares that it is desirable that the external publication of the results of votes on motions should in future be limited to the number of motion and proposers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35322-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u185	The so-called self-promotion. We all know. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u186	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u187	Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse the honourable Members' appreciation of the chairman of the Working Party on the Revision of Rules of Procedure and of the President of our Chamber. Thank you for the answers, the answers to the questions and the reflections that are required. It is indeed remarkable that after 26 years we have a new revised Rules of Procedure. I have been calculating how old I hope to be when, after 26 years, there is another Kees van der Staaij who, together with a committee, keeps the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber under review. I give interested people the opportunity to make the sum themselves. Mr. Chairman. Frankly, I do not have one provision in the Rules of Procedure. A number of colleagues have already referred to this. That is the provision that MPs treat each other courteously. I understand it's not in there, but you wish it could be put in there, because such a treatment is a matter of culture. You don't change it with a Rules of Procedure, with a structural approach. However, I hope that there will be some formative effect of a good Rules of Procedure and that we will also have a high regard for that culture of a certain courtesy in the matter. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a short, nuclear motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in addition to the revision of the Rules of Procedure, the Working Party also made recommendations which do not require an immediate amendment of the Rules of Procedure, namely:]] [[to pay more attention through targeted communication to the working methods of the House of Representatives in order to increase accessibility and transparency for citizens;]] [[in order to increase the visibility of work and decision-making in committees by making procedural meetings searchable on Debate Missed and by consistently using social media;]] [[to enhance the recognition of forms of debate and consultation through greater variation in the organisation of committees;]] [[Whereas these recommendations may increase the awareness, accessibility and predictability of the work of the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Bureau to draw up a proposal for the implementation of the recommendations and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Markuszower, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Smeulders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35322-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u188	That'll save you some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u189	Yeah, but if we keep talking about that, it's gonna be a little less time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u190	We shall now proceed to the answer of the questions raised in the second term and to the assessment of the motions that have been tabled. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you again to Members for their second term input and, of course, for all the motions and amendments, which show a great deal of involvement in the way the Chamber operates. When the President of this sitting just said, "Is this motion sufficiently supported?', I realized that we didn't talk about that, but that's one of those changes that we might be missing, because that's also a ritual we've become familiar with. But we have noticed that this used to happen in all kinds of parts of the functioning of the Chamber: everything was asked whether it was adequately supported. Mr Van Otterloo has been with us for some time now, at least he was here before me and I see him nodding. At some point, this number of moments has gradually declined. It's still standing on those motions. Why did we let that go? Because you notice that it also has regular discussion, even with people watching: why do you raise your hand when you're actually against it? So this is one of those examples where it is a disadvantage to the awareness. Hence a reflection on that point. Mr. Chairman. I'm just passing by the Members with their second-term comments. Mr Markuszower has also announced an amendment in which he wants to remove our point from the working party to restrict the organisation of work. Although I have not yet seen the text, I can say on behalf of the working party that we do not recommend it, because that is the reason for the choice we have made. I have, however, taken good note of the points made by the President, Mrs Arib, in her term. However, as she herself pointed out, we do not yet have any experience of the operation of this arrangement of work in committee, which is already easier to access. We would say: give it a chance to see how that works out in practice. Then there is Mr Smeulders. I thank him for his comments. He underlined the importance of that hearing and the citizens' initiative, but did not raise any further questions. Mr Van Otterloo has also appointed the instrument interpellation. That's right. I think he has a point to make when he says that this is less insidious, but it is definitely another instrument, which allows you to put a number of questions more specifically to the directors. So, as far as we are concerned, that does not have to lead to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. But you can imagine that this will be used more often. He was right to mention the issue of workload. As far as committee meetings are concerned, sometimes we are talking about shorter notations than in the past. He's right about that. I also remember making notes from 10.15 a.m. to 11 p.m., which began with reflections on the Wadden Sea in prehistoric times. I also see it as an improvement that they have been shortened. This also shows that, as far as I am concerned, shortening could sometimes also be possible for plenary sessions, that we do not think: the longer, the better. Sometimes shorter meetings with a sharper number of interruptions can also serve the quality of the debate. Finally, what he mentioned about hearing candidate directors, about which there have also been the necessary debates among themselves. Mr Van Otterloo pointed out that he thought it important to be able to taste their kidneys in this way. I have already said that we, as a working party, are abstaining from taking a view on this issue. It only occurred to me that the kidneys are situated in the lower abdomen. That can therefore also be a risk. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van der Molen for his comments. On digital matters, I would just like to say this on behalf of the working group. If the practice of voting on something equally were to continue, should it take effect in a limited number of weeks from the entry into force of the new Chamber, or should it not take more time? Since the motions are addressed to the Presidium, they will be judged by the President. The same applies to Mr Van Gent's motion on state emergency law and what he calls for from the Bureau. Mr Van Meenen has also tabled a number of motions which will be discussed by the President. Just a word on the experiment to read only the operative part of motions, by way of derogation from Rule 8.19 of the Rules of Procedure, the corresponding speaking time being reduced in proportion. When he read out those considerations, I thought: it is nice to hear the considerations that belong to that operative part. You'd miss that again. The connection between those considerations and that operative part is, after all, a motion of censure. In any case, I will give him that, but of course without giving a ruling on that motion. Mr Bishop has tabled a motion to further the recommendations of the committee, of the working group, which are not included in the Rules of Procedure itself. It will be clear that we are in favour of this and we would like to see the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. Leave 47 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u192	The motion in part No. 47: Judgment Room. Now I missed the appreciation of the motion in part No. 45.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u193	Let me look at this: 'it is desirable to launch an experiment in which, by way of derogation from Rule 8.19 of the Rules of Procedure, only the operative part of the motions is read out and the corresponding maximum speaking time is reduced pro rata'. As a working party, we are abstaining from an appreciation of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u194	Agreed, so it simply doesn't get an explicit appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u195	That applies to the motion in part No. 45. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u197	The motion in part No. I also think that 46 are more concerned with the procedure of the Chamber than it sees in the Rules of Procedure. She did not ask for any further amendment to the wording of the Rules of Procedure. The President will also deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u198	On the motion in part No. 46 shall enter the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u199	Yes. Then we have come to the end of our second term contribution. In fact, we hope that the Rules of Procedure, with all the amendments we are proposing and with the amendments, some of which will undoubtedly be adopted, will be able to move forward for quite some time. We trust that changes will be made in the meantime and that it will be discussed whether it will be satisfactory, because it is also part of the Rules of Procedure that it is a living document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u200	Thank you very much. I'm gonna suspend for a second until the speaker chair is cleaned again. I give the floor to our real President-in-Office, Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to a number of motions. With regard to Mr Van der Molen's motion, I said that we are looking, in close consultation with you and Mr Van der Molen, at how we can achieve this and whether it is feasible. I'd be fine with that. In that case, I'd say judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u202	The motion in part No. 42: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u203	That's the motion in part No. 42. Mr Van der Molen also made a comment on the Committee on Digital Affairs. He insists on the amendment that it should now be dealt with in the Rules of Procedure, with the idea that it will not be possible to do so afterwards. But if it works well in the future, it can be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure through the working procedure committee. I will give you that, Mr Van der Molen, but you are free to put your amendment to the vote. Then the motion to part No. 43 by Mr Van Gent. He asked the Bureau to set up a working group to examine how the Chamber could operate effectively in times of crisis, etc. He said that the legal framework should be taken into account and that the committee would specifically address crisis situations in which physical presence in plenary and decision-making would be difficult. In my first term, I noted that the Rules of Procedure did not in any way prevent us from adapting our methods in times of corona. With the Rules of Procedure, we were able to achieve that perfectly. It is also true that we never know in advance what crisis we are facing. However, it appeared that the Rules of Procedure are incredibly flexible in this respect, because we also have unwritten rules in addition to the Rules of Procedure. In times of crisis, for example on 10 May 1940, former Chamber Chairman Van Schaik has acted on matters relating to the German occupation. He just said "I'm suspending the meeting" without a quorum. That was an historic moment, and that also shows that it is important at such a time that the President has the opportunity to do so, without having to lay it down in the Rules of Procedure. The other moment was in 1953 in the flood disaster. Then the President said: we are not going to meet for one week, because then Members of Parliament will be able to help the victims of the water disaster in Zeeland. Such a situation can occur at any time. As far as I am concerned, the Rules of Procedure do not need to be amended accordingly. Last Monday, for example, because of the weather conditions and snow, we cancelled all notations. We're gonna catch up on that at another time. In that sense, I think that this motion is actually asking for something other than what is written here. I see Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u204	I am sure Mr Van Gent would like to say something about this. Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u205	I think we're all pursuing the same goal. It is also about the prestige of the Chamber. I believe that if, in times of crisis, we rightly impose certain restrictions and measures on the population, we must also abide by them ourselves. This motion asks nothing more than: let us just sit together and look at it in a working group, as has now been adjusted with a working group. Let us do so within the scope provided by the Constitution. I would remind you that the Council of State has also delivered an opinion to the Senate on what possibilities are there now? And again, I hope it's not going to happen, but if there's another situation of crisis, we'll be better prepared in that way. So let's just take a look at that in the next few days, before there's another crisis. That is what is being asked in the motion; no more than that. Let's think about that and see what room there is. And indeed, you never know what kind of crisis there will be and what restrictions it will impose, but I really care about the standing of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u206	When it comes to the prestige of the Chamber, I fully agree with Mr Van Gent. It is indeed important to look carefully at what can and cannot be done. And it could well be that a working group is going to look back: how have we worked in the past period and what can we learn from that? I don't think that's a problem. The only thing I am a little cautious about is that we move very quickly to whether or not we are physically present, and that sort of thing. And that we're gonna try to put that kind of thing in the Regelement of Order, too. Anyway, I'm sure that discussion will come back. But we're gonna see that, and that's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u207	And what is the appreciation of the motion in part No. 43?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u208	Well, I'm not gonna judge it. Let me keep it neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u209	So there is no explicit appreciation, I say. That's what I'm establishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u210	Yeah, that's good. Then again something from Mr Van Meenen. You have tabled nine amendments and three motions for resolutions. So you're very active on this file, I see. You ask the Bureau to come forward with proposals and find a solution to the current end times. No one has a solution. But I would say that we are going to consider that. I hope that everyone will stick to it when we say: then and then. I hope Mr Van Meenen will accept that, too. Do we have that space?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u211	Let me take a look at Mr Van Meenen. You can nod, too, I tell him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u212	I understand. I am concerned that we are saying here that we think it is a problem. Why don't we just say that? I don't have the solution either. I have made a few suggestions in the amendments, for example on fixed-term voting. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u213	Yeah, sure. I think we all agree that we're a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u214	Clear. Can I then conclude that there is no explicit appreciation for judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u215	No, I'm not. I'm fine with it, and I'd certainly like to give the motion a Chamber of Justice. That's no problem at all. We'll come up with a proposal. And I hope that such a proposal will be acceptable and that everyone will abide by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u216	The motion in part No. 44 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u217	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 45. Has Mr Van der Staaij assessed it? Oh, no. This is about launching an experiment in which, by way of derogation from Rule 8.19 of the Rules of Procedure, only the operative part of the motion is read out in a few committees and the corresponding maximum speaking time is reduced in proportion. Oh, it's a speech-out. Is that right? Then I'm not gonna say anything about it. I'm going to the motion in part no. 46. That is also an expression of emotion, but Mr Van Meenen has also made a number of comments. I would like to say something about that, namely that sometimes the text of the motion does not cover the load. Besides, it's every time it's searched. It is incredibly complicated for our stenological service, but also for the clerks to keep it short and to remove a text from the motion... Mr Van Meenen shakes no. Isn't this what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u218	No, that's not what I mean. I think it's very good how that title often covers the load. No, this is what I'm talking about. When you see that title and the voting behavior, you seem to know that... Yes, of course you voted against, but the argument is completely lacking. For example, it may have been said: yes, we are already doing this, we are already doing it. We were talking about the "self-promotion" last week, you remember. That image is very veiled, and we all suffer from it at some point. Because we can all take one of those screenshots and say, well, look, D66 doesn't want to invest in education anymore. I'm just saying. Well, that's not true, but sometimes there is a motion that we vote against. Let me give you an example of my own. That way we can drive each other crazy with this kind of thing. What I am in favour of is only that, when it comes to publication, it is enough with the song and not with the title.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u219	Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u220	To inform people properly and not wrongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u221	Thank you for the explanation. Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u222	I find it rather difficult, because everyone is part of it, Mr. Van Meenen. I do not follow all Members of Parliament on Twitter and all that, but every time a screenshot is made of: look at my motion, which voted against, which voted in favour. I keep wondering why this is the way it should be. But it is really up to the MPs to behave a little. On the other hand, it is also important for citizens to know what the motion is about and to understand what is being voted on. If it's a number, I'm afraid we're gonna be some kind of factory here that only works with numbers and drawings. I understand your dilemma very well and I share it with those screenshots and appeal to each other. But I'm afraid that we're not going to solve that problem with numbers, but that it's mainly a behavioral problem, which I hope MPs will behave properly and, when they announce a motion, they'll say why they're doing that, including the arguments. But that's not up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u223	Can I then conclude that you do not give a specific appreciation of the speech-expressions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u224	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman. I thank the MPs...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u226	... and everyone who was present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u227	That is how we have almost reached the end of this debate. Mr Van Otterloo has just come forward for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u228	I would say a question about order. Documents have been given on the motion relating to the hearing for directors and on the reduction of workload. The question is whether there really should be a vote tomorrow, or whether we should do so on 24 February, when that happens again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u229	I'm just gonna take a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u230	That's fine. For what we already agree on, we can start making preparations, so that we can work with the new Chamber later on with a new Rules of Procedure and vote on it on 24 February. That's fine, too. At least? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u231	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u232	It's possible, it's feasible, I understand. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u233	Thank you. We've come to the end of this treatment.
