ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall continue with the debate on the new Corona support package. You have finished the first term of office, which took place in a note-taking meeting. Now it is up to the cabinet to reply in the first term. Mr Van Kent has a request to the cabinet. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Sure. Since, of course, we have asked questions about arrangements that were not there at the time, I think it is good that the cabinet first explains what the package is, which is the proposal now, especially for thezzp'ers. A lot of questions have been asked about that. But I am also thinking here of the conditions contained in the NOW. We didn't know that arrangement back then. In the meantime we have got a number of things, but for example around thezzp'ers there is nothing yet. I would therefore first like to know what the cabinet has now put on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	Of course we will be happy to do so, but that is also laid down in the letter received by the Chamber. We will undoubtedly find each other in the debate if there is still a need for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	It's intertwined with the answer. That's what I'm getting out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	There are, of course, a number of questions that are no longer relevant, because there is already a package. That's what they were asking about. Questions were then asked about the content of the package. Now it is clear what the cabinet is proposing, but in a number of cases that is not yet the case. So I would like to know first what is being done for thezzp'ers, for example. Is there another extension of the TVL? Or is it just the letter we got?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm looking at the minister. Is it perhaps possible to opt for a different order of response, with an emphasis on those points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'll go into the TVL. Again, the enlargements are in the letter. I shall mention them briefly. Mr Wiersma will comment on the NOW and the situation ofzzp'ers and Mr Vijlbrief will deal with the tax delay. Once again, a debate should of course be used to exchange doubts or other wishes, if there are any, with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'm looking at Mr. Van Kent. I think we're gonna get started, Mr. Van Kent, and then see how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	I think it would be a good start, but I would like to ask whether it can be made clear whether there are any further agreements with regard to the letter. Is there another offer, or is it really just the letter and nothing else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	That was Mr Van Kent's last question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	We are at the beginning of the debate. My experience with the Chamber is that she has wishes and my experience with the Cabinet is that it weighs on reasonableness. There's a letter. We haven't changed that. I'm not gonna say nothing's gonna change, because we can all get coffee now. Well, some of them. Again, I assume there are wishes from the Chamber. We'll take a serious look at that. But for our part, there are no changes to the letter at the moment. That's what the colleagues are confirming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	Go ahead, and we'll see. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This start with Mr Van Kent illustrates once again that it is very sensible that we have stopped the previous debate halfway through, on a proposal from the Chamber. Unfortunately, at that time, it had become clear that the cabinet should take additional measures and adapt the support package accordingly. It's been two weeks since we spoke on Thursday. The press conference took place on Friday and the Chamber had the letter we were just talking about. It lists both the additional measures and the changes made to the aid package. According to the usual division of tasks, I will address the questions that have been asked about and the changes that have been made to the Fixed Charges Meeting, the scheme implemented by my Ministry. Mr Wiersma will comment on the arrangements implemented by Social Affairs and Mr Vijlbrief will comment on the arrangements implemented by Finance. In addition to addressing the arrangements, I will also address questions relating to specific sectors and the position of start-ups. That is the second block, for the overview of the debate in a moment. Then questions have also been asked about the way in which the corona measures are respected and enforced. I'll answer that. We have also been asked to look into the future, and that will be the fourth part for me before colleagues begin. First of all, the regulations. There are arrangements covering financing, access for SMEs and SMEs, guarantee schemes such as guarantee credit, JV credits, which continue unchanged. There is an extension for the specific arrangements for the event sector, the Temporary Scheme grant events, for the larger events, and the Additional Meeting Events. And for the Meeting Fixed Charges, the criteria have been relaxed, the state aid limit has been raised. Where we initially worked with a turnover threshold of 50% for the fourth quarter, it went to 30%, and the fee amount has also been adjusted. This was a question that was often asked in the first period, but which is also logical and inevitable in the case of the cabinet by tightening up the measures. We are aware, moreover, that you have undoubtedly spoken to entrepreneurs yourself, and that is what my colleagues and I have done, that it is still very hard to see these restrictions taking place with a financial package as it is now for many entrepreneurs and their employees and their families. Eventually you just want your performance to go on, that your café or restaurant can open, and also a financial fee doesn't make up for what you actually wanted to do. At the same time, we must, of course, ensure that these facilities are there to help people. Before I go into the specific questions: there are a lot of questions about the implementation, which I will answer as well. We ask a lot of our implementation organisations, from RVO, UWV, Tax Administration. And those are the people who are doing it with full commitment, but I really think it is my responsibility to stress that we should always ask the question of what we are offering, the changes that we are considering: can we do it technically, but can we also ask the people? This does not mean, of course, that nothing can be done at all, but it means that, for practical reasons, we sometimes have to say: we are going too far with this. I think we have all learned lessons from all implementation problems in all sectors. And I would also like to offer the possibility of having another technical briefing with the implementation organisations in the short term, if there is a need in the Chamber, to explain it yourself. Well, after this kick-off, I'll go into the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Aartsen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because the Minister is triggering me about the execution. I certainly endorse his words when it comes to the incredible, exceptional work done by the staff of, in his case, the RVO. But I cannot hide the fact that there are also great concerns about the implementation, because we do see that there are some serious problems starting to arise. The number of objections is extremely high; half of the objections raised a year ago have not yet been completed. Last summer's event scheme: there is no beginning of whenever it opens...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	My question will be: is this minister currently satisfied with what is going on in the implementation process, or can we expect any plans from the cabinet to actually move the implementation forward? Once again, I do not think that the problem is with the people who work there, but we need to know with each other what happened in the execution, keep a finger on the pulse about how it is going and also intervene when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	Before I give the floor to the Minister, the following. I have allowed you all seven interruptions, but I would like to agree with you that we will keep the interruptions short, otherwise we will not be able to make it in terms of planning today. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	I realize that through this introduction I have raised your questions about the execution of myself. I also indicated that I will answer a lot of questions about implementation, which have also been specifically asked. That's in my first chapter, so I think it's good to do that now. This is, by the way, in the light of the fact that 96% of applications are dealt with in good time. So at least I'm going to answer those questions, and then we can see where there are still wishes or doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	Then Mr Aartsen will keep his interruption for a while. We'll turn that off again later. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	First of all, the questions relating to the Fixed Charges Meeting, together with the questions about implementation. Mrs. Kuik asked why there is no full remuneration. I understand that she would like to see both the turnover threshold and the reimbursement rate further relaxed. A scheme must find the right balance between real cost compensation on the one hand and all incentives to enter into and earn money on the other. With a 100% fee you would not open, earn the same. In addition, there is also a implementation question here. The Meeting Fixed Charges is based on the turnover figures known to the Tax Administration. In that case, you would have to compensate for losses in turnover even in ordinary years. Then you'd be really overcompensating. Hence for the Meeting Fixed Charges the same percentages as in the previous periods, also periods of full lockdown. The experience is that that was also the right balance at that time. Mr Stoffer asked whether we have accepted the recommendations made, in particular from the accounting sector, to make the arrangements more manageable for entrepreneurs. I walk them by one by one, because there were several. The first concerns the question of a central place where information on the schemes is available. That central place is there. That's the website of the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce is also available for support and advice. The second point was that the administration does not connect with the boundaries of NOW and TVL. The TVL is based on the VAT administration, which every entrepreneur must have. The NOW is based on the data provided to the UWV. Every employer must deliver it. In our view, therefore, it is in line with the data that must be provided anyway. They can now be used to pay out these schemes. Then there is the commitment of auditors, also against the background of the limited availability of auditors. That is why the role of audit reports should be kept as limited as possible. But certainly in the case of larger amounts, it is also necessary to check or maintain, because of course you also want to prevent undue tax payments. But that is really as light as possible and adapted to the amounts involved. The final point is that an entrepreneur must put his own time in this, while he prefers to put it in his company. I can imagine anything. What we can do about this is to make it as clear and as simple as possible, but I cannot quite ignore the fact that the entrepreneur himself will eventually have to submit the application and will have to vouch for the correct figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	On this point, Mrs Maatoug has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	We get some messages from people who have requested TVL, who have a studio at home and take pictures or who have a movie studio with a separate room. That's a really separate room. They apply for the TVL and also indicate neatly in the pieces they send that this is the situation. They are awarded TVL, but later they get it back that they formally did not meet the conditions and that it was in the pieces, but that it was automatically handled quickly. These people have to pay very large sums of money back. They'll be recovered. Especially since this was granted in the first phase and we were also generous with each other at the time, my comment is towards the Minister that these people are already in trouble and are getting even deeper into trouble. In the context of people's relief, I wonder if we can make sure that we do not push those people further into debt by reclaiming that TVL all the way back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	The position of entrepreneurs from home in the TVL is indeed a special one. That's why the TVL isn't available for that either. I can't completely rule out the fact that this TVL was paid out in the past. This money is then called back, but the recovery is subject to flexible payment arrangements and there is also the possibility of consulting with the RFO. In a rule of law, it is very complicated not to ask for money to be repaid at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	The follow-up question is: would the Minister undertake to check in these very specific cases, where people gave it to the application and then there has often been communication in the context of the objection, to see if we are doing it neatly within the space that is now available? That should certainly be the case for those first cases. These are really specific situations in which people have spaces, which you can say is very much in line with where TVL was initially awarded. Would the Minister agree to take a look at how often we see this in these very specific cases, so that we do not cause unnecessary suffering there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	I am willing to look at cases, but then it will help me very much if Mrs Maatoug can deliver cases to me. Otherwise, it's... it's hundreds of thousands of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u27	I can see her nodding in agreement. That's what Mrs Maatoug's gonna do. Then there is another question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u28	I hear the Minister say it's been a lot of cases. These cases include self-employed people struggling with the TVL. I hear Mrs Maatoug just mention the example of someone with their own studio at home. There are, of course, a lot of self-employed people who work from home and who cannot, to a large extent, claim the TVL. My question is really: what have the cabinet's considerations been to not include this group ofzzp'ers in this TVL application? Did the cabinet look into that? And how did it look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u29	It is a trade-off that was made early in the design of the TVL. I understand very well that the question also arises as to whether this is still a fair balance. Entrepreneurs in general are already extremely different. And in there, the self-employed group is without staff, because that is what we will always talk about here, also extremely different. When working from home, there is actually no logical reasoning about the fixed charges that you can charge, because you get a mix of the expenses that people always have because they live somewhere, and possible business expenses that will also vary greatly by type. For example, a self-employed person can do consultancy work and do so at any time in the company or organisation for which he does so. A self-employed person can also put himself in the service of others on a temporary basis. But a self-employed person can also have a studio at home. I think that was Mrs Maatoug's example too. This great diversity is the reality, but unfortunately it is not possible to differentiate in a scheme. We have to be honest about that. So you're either gonna go huge in the overshoot........................................................................................................................................................... Or, indeed, you have the current situation in which people rightly say: yes, but I am not one of them. I fully understand why this balance was made at the time, and I would therefore like to maintain it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u31	Then I'll come to the execution questions. There were and are now a lot of questions about that. We're talking about hundreds of thousands of applications. I mentioned just now that it is good news that 96% of these requests will be dealt with on time. As far as I am concerned, this deserves a compliment to the staff of RVO and TVL who do that work. At the same time, it is true that Mr Aartsen pointed out that in the course of the various rounds of proceedings there were objections and sometimes legal proceedings. The number of these increases is inevitable. Because things are resolved fortunately, things are also getting off the ground, but there are also rapid changes due to differences between regulations, or because people or advisers see that someone has a statement where he is right and then, understandably, say: then it is true for me too. So those numbers are increasing, and that, unfortunately, means that appeals and appeals sometimes have to last longer and longer. Unfortunately, it also means that the manual controls component becomes relatively larger. Of course, we want to do those checks as automatically as possible with these numbers, but it is inevitable that you have to do more manually. That part is really growing. When you see that, of course, you respond to that. This also means that the deployment and humanisation of the RVO has been greatly expanded. In the summer of last year, 100 FTE were in practice more people, but 100 FTE at RVO were in the process of meeting Fixed Charges. At the end of this year we are at 500 fte, a fivefold increase. So that capacity is hugely expanded. Once again, I realize that Mr Aartsen and others are right when they say: but people have to wait. But a fivefold increase in the capacity of human occupation shows that we take the problems very seriously and respond to them. Mr Graus asked: can the TVL also be used a month? I'm afraid that's not possible. The NOW is based on the payroll administration; that is a monthly administration, the TVL is based on the VAT return and that is a quarterly administration. We don't have another source.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you to the Minister to outline the increase. It also makes sense, of course, because it has become a huge operation. My question to the Minister would actually be: is this enough? That 96% was paid on time is of course very bad looking through a tube, because there are all kinds of arrangements. An event in July is forbidden. In the meantime, the Christmas carols are coming out of the radio at Sky Radio and there is not even a beginning of a view when that arrangement opens. Then you can say: 96% will be paid on time. If the scheme is not yet open, it will be very complicated. My question to the Minister is: is it enough what we are doing now? Or are we really going to have to go a few steps further in order to ensure that things are going to work out better in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u33	The arrangement referred to by Mr Aartsen is not the TVL but the ATE. There is the intention to start in January. Again, I realize the annoyance and frustration of entrepreneurs involved. At the same time, I would point out that we are paying out community money here and so we want to avoid a situation where in a year's time we are facing each other with heated heads when people are asking: how could you do this? Unfortunately, these are situations where we have often found ourselves. We must also always ask for approval because it has to do with state aid. Procedures must, of course, also meet criteria of equality of law and legal feasibility. That's why you're dealing with annoying lead times. The honest answer, not the answer you had hoped for, to whether there are alternatives, so check less, pay first and then check afterwards, where you get into payback situations that were also taken into account, is that the alternatives are often worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u34	I find this a little difficult to reconcile. I understand that there will be longer lead times, but we do not say to entrepreneurs to whom we say at a press conference on Friday night that they should close their case: you have six months to close your case. We tell them on Friday evening at 7 p.m. that the next day at 5 p.m. they can't open their shop and they can throw all the supplies in the trash. That's what we say to entrepreneurs. I understand that it takes some time to settle arrangements, but I sincerely believe that we need to see if what we are doing is enough. That was my question to the Minister. Is what we're doing now enough, with all due respect to the people who work there? Or should we say to each other: boys, we think that implementation is so important that we are going to make it a top priority to move it to a higher level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u35	If you're asking me this sharply if it's enough, I saw yes. Do you have to try to improve yourself all the time? Yeah, too. But I really want to remind the Chamber how many times the Chamber has come together to talk about rigged regulations that have been put together in haste and with good intentions, but which have been found afterwards... And that wasn't just after. There were also warnings from the FIOD and the General Court. The number of warnings was high. It's a lot of money. Most people in the Netherlands and around the world are good, benevolent people, but there are also a few crooks among them. And I can assure you that the one who is going to be my successor will also look very critically at why this was done in six months or a year's time. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. But we must also seriously look each other in the eye to see if we have asked for impossible things to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u36	About that payment a month. I thought the minister was gonna answer that. I also anticipated some problems with some of them being dealt with on a quarterly basis. We've been working on this for so many months. Isn't that why it's not possible to shoot averages or something? Isn't that possible? I'll be brief, Mr President, but the hospitality entrepreneurs I've spoken to all felt it was a big problem that they often have to wait three months. For some, this is almost impossible to bridge. That's the point. Let me ask you this: can't we find a middle way here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u37	If I understand Mr Graus correctly, he is referring above all to a quick payment. I have good hope that we will be able to pay out the TVL that is now before us this month. I agree with him that quick payout is important. The idea of a monthsystematic would then be for another future. It is no longer relevant for this quarter; we are already in December. I don't see any real possibilities in all honesty, because you're going to have much bigger netting problems when you have to make additional assumptions about sales. And for the arrangement we're talking about now, a month's payment wouldn't matter either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u38	Let me take a look at Mr Amhaouch and Mr De Jong. I don't know who was first. Mr. De Jong. Does Mr Van Haga still want to do so? Yes. First Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'd still like to go back to the executive. I understand very well what the Minister is saying. I fully understand that we need to be critical of what we can ask of an implementing authority that has been working so hard lately to make what the Chamber is asking possible. I understand. But I also asked the Minister, in the first term, how we look at the future, because we have learned that Corona may be among us for a long time. Mr Aartsen asked if this was enough and the Minister said yes. After that reaction, I am curious about how the Minister looks at the future. Maybe in a year we'll have this conversation with this minister's successor again. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'll get back to you on that. I understand this very well in the dynamics of this debate, that particular future of implementation. But then I'm going back to the lesson we've all learned from the enormous complexity of big schemes. Everyone's always looking at the surcharges. The Tax Administration does a great job, but occasionally in other areas runs into huge numbers and huge diversity. There is always a tension between the desire for customization in a very diverse society and what you can do. You'll have to forgive me. I've been allowed to walk around The Hague for a while, and that's really a lesson I've learned... that in the numbers that a government has to work with, you have to be very real about the extent to which you can refine and deliver customization. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in 17,5 million Dutch. You have also asked a question whether you can do more with industry codes, but that is an example of that. I really think that we should be very critical of this question. Of course it can be better, but also the question is whether it is real to expect that you can be much more precise than you are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'm gonna stick with the performance. The people of RVO must be watching and wondering: are they talking about us again? It may be said that colleagues do that too, and that they have done a very good job. If you look at the thousands of TVLs, the mainstream of 80%, you can see that that went very well at first. But in the meantime, we're a year and a half or two further. There may also be an evolution. We were just talking about the cases that are coming in, and there I see a big difference of approach between the UWV as a benefit agency and RVO. My question to the Minister after a year and a half is: are we going together? Do we learn from each other at this stage in the way of working, of cashing out, of handling cases? We can put five times as many people against it, but the question is whether we can also organise it efficiently. Are we gonna do it differently? Are we creating more freedom of action for the lawyers or the people at RVO? That is what I would like to talk about, and in particular towards the future, for a long-term vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u42	A little shorter. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u43	Of course, we share the experience, and Mr Aartsen tabled a motion on this at the time. There is institutional coordination, precisely where reimbursement arrangements are concerned. However, I would like to touch on Mr Amhaouch's point: give some more room to performers or lawyers. Fortunately, in our country, justice is crucial. So once you get rid of one quickly, another will say, in a similar case, understandably: "Have you read Article 1 of the Constitution? This is a similar case, you have forgiven, so do the same to me." That is exactly what we are seeing happening and what is causing some of the appeals and objections. Of course, people look at it themselves, sometimes professionally. There are advisors who are looking for a court ruling that could benefit my client, because then I'm gonna call him and tell him that he can do the same. I often hear the call for customization, but it is extremely difficult for a government in a principle of equality of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u44	It's a good thing the Minister is bringing this up, but this is where things go wrong. I see the cases of UWV coming in, or the cases that are UWV-related in NOW, and the TVL. A company that has been acquired, an ordinary family business where the son enters, which is recognised by the NOW as a company that has been acquired and has been in existence for 30 years, and not by RVO. That is not equality of law. We can talk, but I'd also like to discuss lessons learned between UWV and RVO, so we can hang out. For it is not possible to say about a particular company in the framework of the NOW: deliver the evidence, then it will be fine, and then it will fail with the RVO. That's why more and more cases go to the administrative court. The question therefore again is whether the Minister can share matters with the Court on the points in which they are going to work together or on improvements that are going to take place. That must be a little more than just the conversations between RVO and UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr Amhouach has a specific case in mind, where inequality seems to be between NOW and TVL. This also applies: send the file to my direction, and I will be happy to look into it. Again, there is structural cooperation between the three implementing services concerned. Of course, the regulations have different criteria. NOW is much more accessible to very large companies than TVL. TVL is truncated very quickly. That could play a role here. I don't know. It is a conscious choice to focus the TVL on SMEs. Whether this is the case in this particular case, I will be happy to look at it. Once again, there is constant coordination between the three implementing services concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u46	The basic principle must of course be: 100% compensation if the government causes damage. Therefore, it is good that the TVL contains 100% compensation, but there is still a threshold in the turnover loss. I asked a question about that. These measures only started on 13 November, so why is the amount calculated on a quarterly basis? It is a bit in addition to Mr Graus' question. Would it not be more reasonable for us to remove the threshold, or to adjust it to 15%, for example, because these measures did not start until 13 November?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u47	No. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that you will have two effects. It's about spending community money for a good cause. You have to do it wisely. On the one hand, there must be a reason to remain open. On the other hand, any normal fluctuations of 15% in your case in a normal year, many entrepreneurs will also experience fluctuations of 15% in their case, as the scheme is based on the turnover tax declaration. This leads to a huge unintended payment of aid. I do not think this is justified in the context of sensible spending of Community money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u48	Of course, we must be sparing with community money and unintended spending is never good. But, of course, in this case, the State is doing damage to entrepreneurs. The issue is to look for a method to at least compensate for that damage. Then I think that the 30% threshold is being cut a little bit. I read in the Autumn note from VWS that we spent 1.7 billion less on vaccination and testing. Could we not use the 1.7 billion to lower this threshold to 15%? That money's about something else. This could greatly reduce the burden on entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u49	Well, I know Mr. Van Haga as an intelligent man. He knows he can find a 1.7 billion worth of windfall somewhere, but the total expenditure on corona amounts to 80 billion. Some of them we hope to recover by means of deferred tax, but for the time being it remains a fact that the contribution from the community is still enormous with the windfall of 1.7 billion............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That community rightly asks the government, as guardian of community money, to help those who need it, but to do so responsibly. Hence this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u50	So you're not prepared to look at that 1.7 billion. In any case, do you agree with me that we should look for a method of compensating for the damage caused by all kinds of measures by the State? Whether these measures are effective and proportionate is, of course, a completely different debate. I don't think so. But do you agree with me that we should look for a method to compensate the entrepreneur for the damage caused to him by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u51	There's a pandemic. That's why the government is taking action. I'm afraid so. We will then indeed take measures to reduce the damage caused to people. I have indicated in detail that I realize that not all suffering can be compensated financially, psychologically or in your desire to undertake, but that this measure ultimately makes sense. By the way, it was also used in the previous period of a total lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr Aartsen also had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u53	I didn't really want to spend my third interruption on this, but I'm still going a little bit on the principle of equality of law. Shouldn't we be honest about how we've arranged things? We've said a couple of times, guys, be careful with those SBI codes, because they don't match reality. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then a year later the judge comes and there is a lot of misery at RVO. Then we said, "You guys, watch your starting date, because it's not the same as that of the Chamber of Commerce." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We talked to the Secretary of State about that for a year and a half. Pats! Last November 2nd, a ruling was issued by the College of Occupation for Industry. Now we're gonna have to change this. Entrepreneurs must, however, appeal in the new regulation to obtain a judge's ruling. I will come back to my original question: is what we are doing in the implementation sufficient, or will we really have to take a step further together to make sure that we can handle this mega-project?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u54	I said I'm coming up on the SBI codes now. My answer to your question on implementation is yes, realizing that it is still unsatisfactory for many entrepreneurs. I immediately believe that things have been warned. I'm warning you about things now, too. I guarantee you that there will be fraud in the future. Then I can say I warned you about that, but that doesn't help. Nor do I draw the conclusion that we should not do it. Of course, regulations are never perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u55	I agree with the Minister when he says that there will be guaranteed fraud. In order to support the cabinet in its speed, I believe that last year we said that we should take this into account, also in the course of the evaluation. Where people knowingly commit fraud, we have to deal with them. It's not about mistakes. What I want to go to is the 30% threshold at the TVL. Here again the example of pulling together between NOW and UWV, and RVO and TVL. The 30% is more than 20% for the NOW. The Minister for Social Affairs states in the letter that October does not count, because it is a full month in the reference provision. So you can count November and December, because that's where the revenue loss is. I'll be brief. At the TVL we have a higher threshold and we have to take the whole quarter as a reference. In the first term, I asked the Minister how many companies, for example in the hospitality sector, he thinks are going to use this TVL scheme. I really hope people can use it, otherwise we'll have a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u56	The TVL scheme is certainly being used. The comparison between the NOW, based on salary, and the TVL, based on turnover, is really crooked. You realize that, too. A company can employ very few employees and another company with the same turnover can employ a lot of employees. In the latter case, it is quite logical that a substantial NOW is available to prevent people from being fired. In the first case, it is logical that limited NOW is available. Maybe that's a very capital-intensive company, with a very expensive building and very expensive machines. The TVL is higher than that company with a lot of people in service. It is therefore very clear that the criteria and thresholds are different. Then I come to the delineation of the sectors. Mr De Jong and Mr Aartsen also asked if you could do more. Of course, the SBI code has never been introduced with the idea that you would attach large amounts and large legal obligations to it. The statistical goal was to have an idea of which branches there are. As soon as you are forced, and with understandable urgency at the start of the crisis, to use such a scheme for benefits, you will encounter the restrictions very quickly. That was the case; Mr Aartsen pointed out the same. We tried to differentiate first. This was one of the subjects on which there was a great deal of controversy, which led to the failure to do so. If you want to get an industry code really legal hard, then you're going to ask incredibly many questions from the entrepreneurs. I'm just gonna start thinking out loud. Entrepreneurs. Let me take the example of the catering industry, because it is a badly affected sector. Someone's starting a restaurant. He then thinks: it's going well, I'm also going to deliver to schools or businesses nearby, I'm also going to do catering, that's another industry code, and I'm also going to start an event room. Good entrepreneurship, different industry code. These are also exactly the cases we encountered at the beginning. If you want to be resilient for that in the future, you will probably have to exchange your business with each other on a monthly basis. I often have discussions with your Chamber, and rightly so, about what we ask entrepreneurs in the form of administrative burdens. This would really be very far-reaching. So I am only honest about that too: I do not see a very hard legal waterproof system in place that is much more precise. Mr Van Haga also asked if we could work more sectorally. Exactly for this reason, it hardly ever works. There are a few sectors where that can be done. Often because they are very small and therefore already have their own rules. You can see that in the cultural sector and in the travel sector. The travel sector is not very small, but already knew a guarantee fund with members, so you can help along that route and we have offered a backstop. But for all those sectors where that is not the case, you cannot do it and we have indeed paid an expensive lesson at the beginning of the crisis. The same applies to specific storage. Mr. Amhaouch asked for that. Then you go back to work by industry. Then you will also come into execution and legal equality questions. So by putting the reimbursement rate at 100%, we have a workable scheme in the implementation at the same time and, as far as I am concerned, the need to differentiate within it for the different sectors. Mr Van Baarle asked whether there was any possibility of postponing refunds. I indicated to Mrs Maatoug that payment arrangements could be made up to and including a period of five years and that there would be room for consultation with RVO and UWV on reimbursement. So we realize that this reimbursement is a tough task, but we are also offering real room for it in this way. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions specifically about the TVL. I would now like to turn to a number of questions about branches and the position of start-ups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr Van Baarle has another question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u58	On this point, indeed. I thank the Minister for his answer to the question about refunds. Some of these refunds should be made in the direction of the municipalities. Then it's mainly about the Tozo and the TONK. Mr Wiersma is going to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u60	Then I'll wait and see. Then we'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u61	Emphasis on "cozy." The Minister continues to the specific sectors and start-ups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yes. The starters asked Mrs. Kikik, Mr. Amhaouch and Mr. Aartsen. There was a start-up arrangement at the beginning of the TVL. The question is whether it could now be re-implemented. I'm afraid I'm going to deal with implementation issues again, but I can't escape that for a moment. Because we have been looking over a year since the expiry of the previous starter scheme, it is all new registrations for the past year. That's 260,000. What part of that really are start-ups as undoubtedly intended, and not new subsidiaries orzzp'ers located at home and who therefore do not meet the criteria, must then be investigated. If we were to try to put that into the TVL, we would certainly not be able to pay out on time. We will then have to go back to Brussels to get permission for this, but apart from that, it is so extremely complex that the whole scheme should be temporarily suspended. Given the large numbers, any arrangement would be very complex, but at least I would like to ask the Chamber very urgently not to do it in the TVL. I would also ask the Chamber to consider whether it would like to re-establish such a complex arrangement, because we are talking about a period in which Corona was, of course, a known threat. This is really different from the start of the period of the aid packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u63	The great thing about debates is that you gain new insights with each other, that you sometimes weigh them differently and that you can also structure your own head again. I'll be right back to my question, but when I was poking along with the answer, I thought the following. I think we all share the concern. The Minister is also quite right to say that implementation is really an obstacle. At the same time, I also hear in the reply that there are groups that are just between all these arrangements. We can't solve that through the arrangement. Is it not a good idea, for example, to implement a safety net scheme, as proposed by the Kunstenbond for the cultural sector? In that sum we understand the logic as the colleague of the VVD who just sketches: yes, you can't do the light show, because the theater is closed after 17.00 hours. So if you are not eligible for the TVL, for the NOW, for all these schemes, is such a safety net scheme not a solution, also given the argument regarding the implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u64	This calls for much more precision, because then the question is: what does this regulation look like? Who is this arrangement for? And how do you manage them properly? Ultimately, the municipality is always the safety net for individuals with financial problems and then there are debt relief schemes. So I can't possibly answer your question. There is already a great deal and I cannot judge what this arrangement would add or in which it would differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u65	I was just asking the Minister if it is enough what we are doing now in implementation. I got a full yes on that one. Yeah, that's enough. There's no need for a civil servant, nothing. I got a full-bodied yes. Then we say that there is a group of start-ups who are out of business and get nothing. That is a well-known problem, by the way. Last year it was exactly the same group, but it started a year before. Now the Minister says: yes, sorry, that's too complicated for implementation. Isn't it one thing or the other? We can't say, "I'm sorry, we're still looking at what we're doing to these people." These people are supposed to get a proper support package, right? If that is complicated for implementation, then we are going to look at how we can scale it up with more officials, better systems and other things, so that we can help these people anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u66	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u67	That's not a contradiction. Mr Aartsen now has an extra wish and says: I need extra people to do so. My answer to your question as to whether it is enough is yes. For the arrangement that the cabinet presents to you, it's enough. I have outlined to you that this is a huge group. You're gonna have to select a lot of things. That indeed requires a great deal of extra capacity. It's very complicated. Then the real question is: is that reasonable? I have great respect for people who start a business, but we're talking about start-ups that started in the corona period. That is really different from the previous starter scheme for people who couldn't have foreseen corona, because that was a much shorter period. At that time, it was also about manageable numbers. That was very complicated, by the way. It's a huge group now. That's what I've outlined to you. That is not possible with the existing occupation and capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u68	But we saw this coming anyway, I would like to say to the Minister. In May 2020 I stood here with the Secretary of State and said: we have a group of people who do not get TVL, because they started in the reference period, were not yet open or for all kinds of other reasons. It took more than a year for us to find a solution. Those people ran out of support for a year before we could do that. Now we're back in exactly the same situation. My question would be: what have we learned about these packages over the last year and a half? We have a separate aid scheme for this. I don't see why we can't copy it with another registration date and another reference period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u69	About "we saw that coming": of course, there is no one who has seen exactly how the crisis went on. We found ourselves in a new situation. This summer, I think, we had broad hopes that we could put this crisis behind us with vaccination and sensible measures, but we had no guarantee. The Chamber didn't have one, nor did the Cabinet. About the reasoning "you could have seen that coming" you can also say: that applies to the whole of society. That is why I am also saying that the situation of starters is different from that of starters for the corona period, because now it is starting in the corona period. I also have a hunch what would have happened if we were now... We couldn't see anything coming, at least not with great precision, but what if we had now been in the happy situation that we wouldn't have any applications because of the vaccination and because there were no variants. Then we would again be blamed: why have you rigged a complex, large scheme? I believe that it is my job to outline the size and complexity of this scheme, which is becoming extremely complicated in its implementation, is going to require a great deal of capacity and is susceptible to fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u70	I get the feeling the Minister is contradicting himself here. On the one hand I hear him say: to starters who started in the corona pandemic I look differently; the cabinet makes other considerations. On the other hand, he just said to Mr Aartsen: we had not seen this coming either. No, neither did those entrepreneurs, because when the cabinet said 'we are letting go of the measures' this summer, a lot of entrepreneurs started doing business. Those entrepreneurs have no chance of success now, where that was really different in the first period. Then the cabinet came up with a solution and also another reference period. Now those starters are empty-handed. I would like to add one more point, Mr President. That's what I did in the first term. That was about the entrepreneur Willem in the beautiful Friese Ljouwert, who had been working on a very large catering business for three years. That's someone with plans on a moving train. You don't jump off one-two-three. Such entrepreneurs, who have been working for a long time and are now open, do not make an appointment on the TVL. I think it's too easy for the cabinet to get over that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u71	Entrepreneurs can now call on TVL, so the latter escapes me for a moment. No one has been able to predict exactly what we do not need to fight each other about. This summer there was a lot that we had the worst behind us, but of course no one has given any guarantees that we had that behind us. Isn't that true for the government, for entrepreneurs and for everyone? Therefore, the situation of start-ups after the start of the corona period is quite different from that of the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr Amhaouch and then Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u73	I fully understand that the Minister says that the starters cannot join the high-speed line, the regular TVL. Because that's what we saw last time: you don't want us to stop the thousands that are fast on a TVL scheme. But you do want, as Mr Aartsen said, to get a new arrangement or another arrangement or the old one back out of the box. Again, again, for the third time today, it is very difficult. The cabinet speaks with one mouth. The letter clearly states the importance and why we want to help start-ups with the NOW scheme. There are starters who have shown courage, who have made loans, who have switched careers at a time when we said: we can go free again. Then I hear the Minister of Economic Affairs say: yes, but those start-ups themselves have taken a risk; has that been smart? Entrepreneurs don't understand that. One ruler says: we are indeed going to support start-ups; that is important. The other ruler says, "Isn't it "your own fault, fat bump"? Entrepreneurs watching now don't understand that. Therefore, once again: best cabinet, pull together, ensure one clear line, and I hope that something will be done for the starters as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u74	The words "your own fault, fat bump" are not mine. Then there's the equation between NOW and TVL. That made Mr. Amhaouch again. However, the answer is the same again. It matters enormously whether someone is employed, and therefore is registered with the UWV. That's how we arranged it in the Netherlands. You have employers' obligations. It may also be that an entrepreneur does not employ people. That's gonna be a lot for starters. So this is where apples and pears are compared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr Amhaouch, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u76	I don't agree with this. It is the second time that the Minister has really given the wrong picture. That was also the case when comparing the regular TVL, when I was talking about the threshold. It is about determination of turnover: determination of turnover for the NOW or determination of turnover for the TVL. Then comes a series of calculations that can be different. That remark did not make any sense at the time either. Now I'm gonna be... I really feel like I'm gonna be sent into the reeds with a brat. There's no difference. The starter is a starter. He owns a company. It has fixed costs. We have also pronounced that as a Chamber. In the previous period there was a start-up scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u77	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u78	Is the Minister prepared to see how the looming error can be solved on the left or right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u79	I really argue that there is a looming error here. A scheme to prevent redundancies is really a different scheme than a scheme to cover fixed charges. That is also why I gave the example that I think everyone recognizes. Companies with the same turnover will sometimes reach them with a lot of people employed and sometimes with few people employed. So it is also logical that you apply different criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u80	The SP considers that the damage caused by the measures should be compensated as accurately and as broadly as possible. The Minister said at the beginning of this debate that he was curious to see what the wish from the Chamber would be. I think everyone in this Chamber shares the wish that something will be arranged for those starters. What would it take to arrange something for the starters in the TVL?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u81	Again, I would strongly, strongly advise the Chamber not to do so in the TVL. It slows down the entire TVL. That really means that in all likelihood you are going to put more than 100,000 entrepreneurs in the hold-up. They need the money. I really wouldn't do it. I really want to take a serious look with the implementation organisations, specifically with RVO, to see if we can make an arrangement next to the TVL that can help both the target group and the target group, and is fraud-proof. But I can't deliver that kind of arrangement out of stock right now. I have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u82	Look, that's how we get somewhere. This is therefore a commitment to consider whether something can be organized for starters next to the TVL. It is, of course, important for all those starters who are watching to know when that can be clarified. So can the Minister indicate at what time a possible arrangement could be put in place, so that people know where they stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr Van Kent will realize that I will probably rule over my grave. I want to do my utmost to get back to that in January. I will, or the minister of service of that moment. But given the complexity, I really can't do that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u84	The starters fall a bit between shore and ship, but on behalf of BVNL I would like to point out another category that falls between shore and ship. This is made up of companies with a majority shareholding in foreign holdings, i.e. 60% of the shares are held abroad. They cannot claim the TVL or the NOW. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u85	I'd like to take a very precise look at that. This was also done with the original design. I can now explain why this has been done, but I will come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u86	Okay, I'd really appreciate that. We are talking about more than 100,000 jobs, and that is just Dutch jobs, isn't it? The well-known company Tribes, by Eduard Schaepman, employs 100 people. Eduard Schaepman interviewed us all here. His company can't claim any regulations. I would therefore be very grateful if the Minister could clarify this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u88	That's what the Minister's gonna do. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u89	I'll come back to the starters, too. The minister says if you started now, you knew at the start that corona existed. Of course it is. I don't want to blame the Cabinet for corona, because corona is everywhere in the world. On the other hand, of course, policy also has an impact on the damage that entrepreneurs now have. Of course, policy choices also determine which sectors have been affected. Those were just political choices. Is it not reasonable, then, to create the start-up scheme that was in place last time, perhaps in a slightly adapted form, with adapted deadlines? To offer the starters nothing at all or at least nothing extra, because they do have the regular arrangements, isn't it really a story to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u90	The arguments I have put forward to Mr Aartsen are also yours. You also underline that the situation is different. Again, you and I do not envy the people who are now in that situation. But that corona hung behind the horizon was known. That a government then has to take action is ultimately in consultation with the Chamber, but is also inevitable. So these are the measures that we have democratically agreed we need them to take. In doing so, we are doing a compensation which, once again, is impossible to compensate everyone exactly. I thought I met the Chamber with the promise "not now in the TVL, but seriously looking at it." But really in the TVL now? I would advise the Chamber very, very dissuaded. It would really mean that no payment can take place in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u91	Of course, no one wants to be responsible for that. It is known that my party, the PvdA, has argued for a hard lockdown, with more intervention, so that it is also faster in sight that the virus is contained and the damage is also less large. I expect that we will have months to do with the measures taken by the cabinet and that the entrepreneurs will have months to do with them. I find the design... No one wants delay. So if that is not possible in the TVL: all at your service, but I do think that for start-ups who bear the consequences of that, it is now mainly in the cultural sector and in the hospitality sector that additional measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u92	I'm not going to speculate on what the consequences of a hard lockdown would be for starters and entrepreneurs. But again, I will honour the commitment I just made to see if we can create an opportunity for starters. Mr Amhaouch asked for specific attention to the position of stoppers. There is a great deal of work going on here, and the colleague of Justice and Security has taken the lead in identifying possibilities for a wide-ranging regime for cessation of business, in addition to the possibility of starting up which the Chamber naturally knows under the fine abbreviations TOA and WHOA. Our commitment is that the cabinet, the colleague of Justice and Security, will be able to return to you within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u93	I see Mr Grinwis; I think on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u94	Yeah, that's right. I was just on the late side of the interrupting microphone. It is, of course, very frustrating to hear that implementation problems are ultimately the reason why we cannot help start-ups right now, but that they have to wait a little longer and that a separate arrangement needs to be helped. That's going to happen is good news, but what's less good news is that it's going to take a while. Since Corona will remain among us for the time being and we may have to consider a wave again next autumn as we are now experiencing, I would ask the Minister whether he can also comment on the implementation problems next year and the year after that is not another argument to keep starters waiting or actually put them off for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u95	Again, at the end, I will go into the future in a block, but I want to be very precise about implementation problems. I did not go so far as to say this at first either. In my opinion, a lesson from the past few years has always been that Cabinet and Chamber have come up against implementation problems with all the understandable desires to help people, to help entrepreneurs. Sometimes the answer is "I'm only honest about "that things can't for that reason, because they're too complex." Equality is a very important principle, but it leads to the immediate conclusion that tailor-made work is not possible. So I cannot say that there will be no implementation problems. I would almost say that they will always have to be very high on the agenda, not only from Economic Affairs, but also from Social Affairs and the Tax Administration. That is the point. You are right, of course, that we should look forward longer. I'll go into that later. I think I've said enough about that now. I would like to move on to the last two blocks, namely the questions raised by Mr De Jong and Mr Amhaouch on compliance with the measures. Finally, let me say something about the future. As far as compliance is concerned, 45 million have previously been made available through the security regions, in particular for the control of corona access tickets. We are now in consultation with entrepreneurs to increase security, or rather control, with financial resources, but also possibly with the use of the private sector. The colleague of Justice and Security will come back to that. Those conversations are taking place. Finally, let us look forward. Mr De Jong asked the almost philosophical question: when is an entrepreneurial risk? I think that is a fair question, but I think that you will never be able to come to a very precise answer out loud. In the end, you get this question: what damage do you think you should bear as a society and what damage do you say is the entrepreneurial risk? That's never completely cut up. Corona is such an overwhelming pandemic that I didn't run into people who said, "Nothing at all." For some time now, especially among economists, there have been large groups who say: you have to stop or you should have stopped. It is therefore ultimately a political consideration of what harm you want to bear as a society. Mr Amhaouch asked me to consider the low number of bankruptcies in the economy. It appears to have increased slightly in the last month. In any case, it is very plausible that the aid packages have led to that much lower number of bankruptcies than in comparable years. So I do understand those who say you're probably getting a wave right now. It is also a complex illustration of the great contrast between the individual sufferings of entrepreneurs in the sense that you see a declining number of bankruptcies in the macro figures and at the same time the great individual suffering of entrepreneurs who are doing their utmost to prevent bankruptcy. Then the look ahead. In the course of next week, we will look ahead to the nearer future and work as a cabinet on a broader analysis, not only of the economic consequences but also of dealing with the pandemic. Mr Grinwis said that we might be in the same situation next autumn. We all hope not. One part of the way forward is of course: what measures can we reasonably take to prevent us from being in that situation again? There is, of course, also the question to your Chamber: what measures do you think are acceptable? I also mention the uncertainty that we do not know whether there will be new variants that will make vaccinees more vulnerable again and the fact that long-term support packages are also economically harmful, which is evident in the point just mentioned of declining dynamics in society and also in the coexistence of staff shortages in many sectors and schemes to keep people in service. We will take all these aspects with us, but because this also requires a thorough analysis of the health situation, the measures that you can take on that point and then the economic consequences, that will really have to be done after the turn of the year. After all, we are concentrating on how this quarter can be completed in a proper way. Mr President, I hope that I have answered my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u96	That leads to a reaction of four gentlemen. I don't know who was first. I think Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u97	I just wanted to wait for the Minister to finish the block on the future to return to the question of when something is entrepreneurship risk. The Minister is right to say: when can we and want to carry it as a society? I hope that the Minister agrees with me that we should talk here as a Chamber and here in this house about how we are going to proceed, because in fact the cabinet is already making the assessment of whether something is at risk of entrepreneurial activity. I just heard you say that the cabinet is looking at starters in the corona pandemic differently than starters who started before. On the other hand, there have been letters from implementing agencies on reducing working hours which state: this is a risk to businesses. I understand that you do not want to rule over your grave, but my question is how the cabinet would like to deal with the question of when we can label something in the next autumn or perhaps in two years' time as "entrepreneurship risk" so that we can discuss it here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u98	That is a conversation I would like to continue, especially if we look into the future, probably on the basis of scenarios. I would like to make two comments. One is inevitably a legal one; I cannot escape it in my position and neither can you in yours. Once you make tough statements about this, they will also be legally enforced. That is in itself a reason to be very reluctant about this. The second comment is the following. We are talking about corona, which is the biggest crisis we have experienced, but I remember that from time to time the Chamber is talking about heavy rain or a period of drought and its consequences, specifically for the agricultural sector. Then there is precisely this discussion: when is that entrepreneurial risk and when, as the English say so beautifully, is it an "act of God"? Sometimes you have droughts and sometimes you have a lot of precipitation in one place. Everyone knows it happens. So yes, you can try to insure it, but you can't put it down to collectivity. Each example runs the risk that it has weaknesses, but the question of when something is an entrepreneurial risk will come across much more often, in addition to corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u99	Now it's almost philosophical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u100	Oh, yeah. It is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u101	The Minister is talking about heavy rain, but we are not talking about the Water Framework Directive. I get your call. I understand you're saying that we need to define that. My question is: is the cabinet prepared to do so? Does the cabinet want to talk to this Chamber about how we look at corona and undertake? I'm staying with Corona now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u102	With that addition perhaps I went too wide, I understand you very well again. You say specifically in the field of corona: make sense of when. Then it also makes sense in the eyes ahead, which I have just promised you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr Van Kent, Mr Nijboer and then Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u104	I asked a number of questions about the guarantee fund for events in the first period. For organizing a large sporting event, a large fair or a festival you need a longer preparation time. The question raised by the SP to the Minister is whether the guarantee scheme currently in existence can be continued until the end of next year, 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u105	You are right; you asked that question. We have not yet reached a decision on this. I understand the question very well. I also get it directly from the event sector. Because we are going to discuss the rest of the quarter later this week/next week and take a look ahead, we are going to answer that question at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u106	You'll have to wait a little longer, I understand. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u107	I also thought I'd wait until the end. My question is about the seasonal influences. The Minister will undoubtedly receive a lot of e-mails and messages about this. A very easy example: a bowling center has to earn it in winter, because in summer there is no dog, except a few people who really have bowling as a hobby. But then it won't be earned. What's the answer for those entrepreneurs? They're really going down now. They're just closed at 5:00 p.m. And they don't turn around much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u108	That is why the choice of quarters was chosen at the time. Besides the bowling centers, the beach tents, I think, are an even clearer example of how to cope with that. Again there is a limitation, so I say immediately, because a seasonal pattern may mean that you have a huge decline in sales every year in a next quarter. If your arrangement is blind to that, then you are going to give unintended support. In short, the choice of quarters is the answer to a legitimate question. Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u109	At a beach tent it is of course the other way around. In summer of course it went well, but there is usually less money in winter. I really have examples, including arithmetic examples: of the scheme, of 80% and turnover losses and of 'we're still a little open'. That's where the tears jump in the eyes. You can't really talk about serious compensation. If this goes on for a few more months, they'll just go bankrupt. I think the Minister for Economic Affairs should answer that. He compares it to two years ago, because last year, of course, there was no turnover due to corona, and then says: we can; then we can adjust a sleeve for those months and if that is reasonable, then I agree. But that's not what I hear back from those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u110	But that's in the choice of quarters, isn't it? This question now plays and it played in the past as well. Again, even then, I cannot rule out the possibility that there are cases that we cannot fully operate with. But that option is very consciously put into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u111	It is, of course, sensitive to start in this difficult time for many entrepreneurs about perhaps a new relationship between the responsibility of the government and the risk to an entrepreneur. It is good that the Minister has said a few things about this. At the same time, we have to take into account that corona is a keeper. I just said that in a previous interruption. Maybe there's another variant every fall. I asked the cabinet to discuss this with social partners and perhaps to come up with a vision with them: what is a good relationship between the responsibility of the government and the risk of an entrepreneur in the light of the fact that this pandemic might be a keeper? If the Geul in Limburg were to flood every year, you would have to rethink: where do you build houses and what are you committed to? But if it only happens once, then of course it is important that the government assists entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u112	Sure. This discussion is also taking place, both in terms of short-term measures and forward-looking measures. But for that conversation with the social partners, this coherence applies, because what is happening in the economy is linked to your question of how you deal with vaccination, with access cards, so the debate that has been held here in the Chamber, but it also has economic consequences. And also in the background, of course, there is uncertainty about variants. And a third variable is what can or can't be done with scaling up in care. But the short answer is: that conversation takes place, even for that longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u113	Madam President. I quoted the flood disaster in Limburg during my first term. Look, our province and our entrepreneurs are, of course, particularly hard hit. I have already said all this in combination with these corona measures. I also said that the Disaster Compensation Act does not cover the loss of turnover and that the NOW and TVL schemes do not sufficiently cover turnover. And I have, partly because that disaster took place in the summer, a season in which catering and other seasonal entrepreneurs achieve the highest turnover of the year, very clearly asked the Minister in the first term, and now it comes, and I would like to repeat it, because I had no response to it and asked for the affected entrepreneurs to be dealt with quickly by means of a generous turnover loss scheme. See, these people have been hit twice. And I think if I make a motion for that, I'm sure the SP will take part, because they have a pit bull in the south of the SP, the mayor of Valkenburg, who will greatly appreciate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u114	The floods in Limburg are quite rightly the focus of Mr Graus and also of the cabinet. So in consultation with entrepreneurs and the province is indicated: the third quarter NOW and TVL, and for the fourth quarter we are going to look at an arrangement. Now it's complicated that it's come through that NOW and TVL are open again. That means that we are currently looking at which button to turn, because this arrangement is now open. But Mr Graus is right. I'll come back to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u115	Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr President, thank you. I will come to two points: first the NOW and then the Tozo, TONK and the municipal regulations, and finally a part about the supplementary social package. I will start with a brief introduction, and then I will also take up the question that Mr Van Kent asked, for example, about what is in the letter. So I will begin briefly with that, and then we will go into the specific arrangements in greater detail and I will also answer the questions of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Stand by: once again hit by a package of measures. And yes, they are necessary to contain the infections and reduce the pressure on care. But I understand very well that both employers and employees are worried, sometimes very worried, about their company, about paying their staff, and also about the future. That's tough, and it's up to us to help them through that tough time. And that is also in the light of a rather special situation, because part of the economy is faced very hard with restrictions and is having a very difficult time, while another part is running at full speed. In several sectors we see that there is also a sharp cut. Mr. Chairman. On 24 November the Chamber asked several questions during the first term of this debate. Some of these questions were answered with what the cabinet subsequently presented: the support package for the fourth quarter. There are a number of measures here, which I'm passing by. The cabinet announced the fifth temporary emergency measure Overbridging for Employment, the NOW 5. The NOW 5 will apply for the period from 1 November 2021 to 31 December 2021. Those are the two months in which there were most restrictions. A lot of questions were asked about that last time. They asked: does this actually apply with retroactive effect for those first three weeks? We did it this way. So we support the entrepreneurs generously. That's what we did in the design of the NOW. So it is also equal to that of the NOW 4. The turnover threshold thus remains at 20% and the subsidy rate at 85%. Following requests from the Chamber, an extension is now also available to start-ups to use the NOW 5. I shall come back to that in greater detail later. Why is that possible? Because for the first time since March a relatively normal turnover period is available, namely July from this year to October of this year. At that time, the anti-contact measures were also much less far-reaching compared to previous periods. A number of other measures have also been announced, e.g. the TVL. That's what it was about. Think also of measures in the tax field. At the same time, the letter states that there are, of course, disadvantages to generous support. That's what it's been about for a while. I mention the long term and the entrepreneurial risk. But it is also disturbing for the economy and for the dynamics of the labour market, when so many people are sought out by employers. These packages therefore also have an effect on this. However, the cabinet considered it important to take the current measures and to support entrepreneurs and workers. In addition to the generic package, there is also a social package. We'll come back to that later. We also support municipalities. During the August decision-making process, we also reallocated funds, for example for special assistance, for tailor-made counters, for emergency funds. Together with the VNG, Divosa and the municipalities, we keep an eye on whether that's enough. The same applies to self-employed workers. For this there is income support through the Bpz. It has been temporarily simplified in order to make the implementation possible for municipalities as well. Finally, 40 million has also been allocated to give impetus to match jobseekers and employers. This was also announced in the letter of 26 November. We are now with municipalities and the UWV watching how we can quickly give it hands and feet, so that we can help to use that crunch, to get people to work and to help entrepreneurs to the good people. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the three headlines: NOW, Tozo/TONK/municipalities, and the additional social package. I'll start with the NOW. Several questions have been asked about this. I'm gonna go see him. I'm sure there'll be new questions, but they'll come in. The Christian Union asked: can it be done per month instead of quarterly? The NOW 5 will be for the months of November and December, not for a quarter but for those two months. The turnover of October 2021 also refers to the turnover from a relatively good month, with few restrictive measures. So it doesn't have to be taken into account. Therefore, the possible loss of sales during the subsidy period will not be affected downwards. DENK and the SGP asked: Is that possible, the sector-specific approach within the NOW? No. That is, I say, very honestly, difficult. We have often looked at this, but when implementing the NOW we do not use a sector classification, especially because we cannot use the SBI codes. That really works differently in the payroll administration at the UWV. So if we want to do that right and fast, you come up with a generic measure. Mr. Chairman. De Jong and Van Baarle asked the cabinet about the refunds: are we prepared to postpone? Part of it concerns the tax section. The Secretary of State will return to that part. I can talk about the UWV. Plus, we're being generous. You can make a payment arrangement. This can in principle be for one year, but it can also be five years. The important thing is that you come to a payback appointment. There is that possibility. There is no interest on that either. A payment break can also be added at your request. I must also say that, for the time being, repaying these NOW advances seems to go without major problems. We also see that part of the employers meet the sum in one go and that for the part where it cannot be paid in one go, payment arrangements have been agreed with almost all employers. The Tozo is partly the same. Preparations have been made before. With the Tozo 5 it is settled that self-employed entrepreneurs would only have to start paying back the Tozo loan from 1 January 2022. No interest will be accrued in 2021. From the moment thatzzp'ers receive the loan, they have five years to repay everything. Here too, a payment system is possible. Mr. Chairman. I'll be back on the Tozo in a few minutes. I know that Mr Van Baarle has asked a lot of questions about this. It's in my second cup. I'll finish the headline on the NOW and then I'll get to the Tozo. Mr Van Baarle asks whether I should be included in the refund heading. That's what we can do. It's okay now, but it might be more convenient to do that later. I'll finish the NOW. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks asked what that period looked like after the NOW stopped again. This is about the first period without regulations. We now know, one step further, that we have the NOW again. At the same time, there may be something under that question, namely: do we not need a structural crisis measure? I also sent a letter on this subject on 23 November. The way in which this is implemented, as I say quite frankly in this debate, is for a new cabinet, but I did give direction and mentioned elements of the social partners in that letter. It will be a long process, by the way. You don't have that kind of fast. I think it's a fair discussion. It is good to work on a longer-term strategy. Reference has already been made to the social partners. As far as the corona part is concerned, we are now going to do the same with the social partners. I am very pleased with the hand-off they have done. The cabinet picked that up. In the coming weeks, we want to give them further details.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u117	We were just having a very nice interrupt debate with our colleague from the Christian Union. We're getting a letter from the minister of EZK. It would be very nice if this document, and also the document containing the regulations, were included in that letter, together with the consequences for the labour market, for the balance sheet, as Mr Blok said. I ask the Secretary of State if this can be promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u118	We will come up with a report on the aid measures anyway. It's coming in the first quarter. We can also include this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think Mrs Maatoug means something else. This is about the letter the Minister promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u120	Which he promises in the short term. Then we need to be very precise. I do not want to disappoint Mrs Maatoug. What exactly does she want to read in that letter? I can offer anything, but I need to know what she wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mrs Maatoug, just to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr President, thank you for ensuring that the accounting of the interruptions continues. We had just as important a conversation about what to expect and what that means for the structural situation and the entrepreneurial risk. It's nice if in that letter there really is a reference to this structural point, with the knowledge that there is then. It's nice to have all that in the same letter. It may be a referral, but I'd like that very much. I hope the request is so clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mrs Maatoug would like one clear letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u124	Ah! We're gonna do our best to do that. I sent a letter on November 23rd about this crisis settlement. I need to see what else we can add to that. I'm gonna do my best to do that. Then I'll see Mrs Maatoug to make sure we do what she asks us to do. I say it's not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u126	Then I come to the Tozo, TONK and the municipal support. I'll see if there's any questions about the NOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u127	Not as an interruption, but as a reminder. I also asked questions about the guarantee that no bonuses will be paid and no profits will be paid if companies use the NOW. Yes, I asked questions about that in the first term. The second one was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u128	But perhaps the Secretary of State will return to that in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u129	No, because it went over to the Tozo. So that's why I walked forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u130	Ah, you remind him of your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u131	A second question I asked in the first period was about the dismissal ban. There is now an extension whereby employers who receive support are allowed to fire more workers than in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u132	I say honestly that this is for the sake of feasibility. After all, we had the question: if we are going to do this with the NOW, can we ensure that we get that money from entrepreneurs as soon as possible? At first, it seemed that it would not be possible until January. I'd be very sorry to hear that. So we looked at it: how can we ensure that it comes as soon as possible? Then you have to keep it as simple as possible and then you have to do whatever you did before. We actually copied the NOW 4 so we can make speed. In doing so, I implicitly gave those answers, because we have done the same thing as we did before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u133	I don't blame the Secretary of State because he's gonna end up in complicated, new files. But it's not right for the NOW 4 to continue. The pay exemption rate, i.e. the number of people you are allowed to fire, is increased in the support package as it is now being designed, compared to the previous aid package. That means employers can fire more people. The FNV warns that this can be at the expense of the collateral that flex workers or temporary forces have, because they can be thrown out more easily. So I'd like to remind the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u134	I know what the point is. That's the 10% and 15%. This has been done in consultation with the social partners because this is in two months' time. It could then be that in the first three weeks there has already been impact by people you had to say goodbye to. So we've been looking at how you can meet that aspect with that percentage. That's where that 15% came from. This runs until December 31st. When I hear you like this, you say: if we do that again, think about this percentage and the consequences that that might have. Well, then let me save that message. For now this has been done because of those three weeks that weren't in it before and the fact that you would like to count with November and December. Sometimes employers have already anticipated those three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u135	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u136	Then I come to the Tozo, the TONK and the municipal support. A lot of questions have been asked about that. The PvdA asked, among other things, how the cabinet looks at the entrepreneurs who have had no income for some time. DENK asked about the preparations made by the cabinet to compensate for income losses. The Christian Union and GroenLinks asked for an extension of the Bbz, which you could extend until 1 January. D66 and DENK asked how we ensure that entrepreneurs are treated equally everywhere. VVD and GroenLinks asked if the cabinet would come up again with a Tozo-like arrangement. I'm going to say a few things about that. As I said in my introduction, these are difficult times, especially forzzp'ers, because they too are affected by the new package of measures. Some of them have been affected by these measures for so long. I understand very well that entrepreneurs and, of course, workers are also concerned about the decline in their income. There are different forms of support for entrepreneurs and for workers. I will focus specifically on those for entrepreneurs, because for self-employed people who see their income falling below the social minimum and who meet the conditions, there is the Bbz, i.e. the special assistance for self-employed people. That's an arrangement that actually looks a lot like the Tozo. People sometimes say, "I'll have to eat my whole fortune with this arrangement in a minute." No, that's not the case. In this quarter, we have an arrangement that doesn't contain a power test. De facto, that's equal to the Tozo. The reason we did that is that we saw that at the very beginning there were a lot of applications for Tozo. Then we also needed a new arrangement quickly. By 2020, 500,000 people were helped with a Tozo benefit, a lot. We actually saw the number of people dropping every quarter who requested that Tozo. We see from the latest figures of the Bbz that there are now 4,000. We can see that this is happening again, of course because of the measures. At the time, we chose how to help municipalities to get to a more normal situation from the special assistance for the self-employed. If those numbers go down again, you could offer municipalities that. That was also a wish of congregations. But at the same time municipalities also said that there are elements in this special assistance for self-employed people that make it very complicated for them. The power key is one of them, the yearsystematiek is another of them. As a result, they have said that we can take that step, but we must keep a number of conditions in line with the Tozo in the fourth quarter. We did, so no income test. The retroactive effect applies, so you can claim even earlier. So in that sense, the name has changed, but a large part of the layout of that facility is just there. This is also a wish of municipalities to make this possible in the implementation process. So I'd think it would be unwise, I'm just saying, but we'll get to that in a minute, if you'd tip back to the whole Tozo. Because then municipalities of just their execution in order in the Bbz go back to what they did before. So we should check that very closely with municipalities. In addition, municipalities have also started working on the real handling of these applications. They have done so with the Tozo, but also with the support that comes to mind: helping with reorientation, possible help with debt, trying to find new perspective. I told you, we're seeing these numbers coming back to the municipality. So that's extra attention. At the same time, there is fortunately room for the municipalities to offer this benefit à la Tozo, without a capital test, and also to provide additional support in the case of regular special assistance. It is also very open tozzp'ers. This reorientation on the labour market, or on entrepreneurship, are you going to keep doing this or do you have to do something else? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Regional mobility centres have also been specifically commissioned for this group. We really keep our finger on the pulse with the VNG and Divosa, because for them the target group of entrepreneurs is quite a new one. In one municipality things are better than in the other. Forzzp'ers, sometimes it's a bit of a search. They haven't done so much with a municipality in advance, and they have to come to a municipality and hear that there is support, but the actual support they need may be different. You might have had a much higher income. Maybe that's why you started doing business... and then you fall back a long way. So we're offering that safety net. It's a really good safety net, but it's not a safety net that you're hoping will take a long time forzzp'ers to stick around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u137	I believe that a very strange and unjust distinction is being made here, namely the distinction between the mono-pitters on the one hand and the employees on the other. For those employed persons, there is an aid scheme similar to what it was like in the past, but not for those selfemployed workers. They have to knock on the door of the municipality and wait and see if they can count on any support at all, because I read here in the scheme that the municipality will first carry out a legality test and a feasibility study. Can the Secretary of State tell us about the differences between the Tozo and the regulation now offered to single-pitters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yeah, I can tell you about that. That's what I've been trying to do. I said that the scheme is not subject to a power test and the scheme is retroactive. Those are the two important elements that were in the Tozo before and that we now retain in this Bbz. It's not like this safety net wouldn't be there for anyone. That was quickly said, but this safety net is there very strongly for zzp'ers. For a married person this is more than €1,600 and for a single person it is around €1,200. We have this safety net because we want to be able to help thatzzp'er, whom we see he's having a hard time with. But we shouldn't pretend that the safety net isn't there anymore if that name Tozo doesn't exist anymore. Very emphatically: the safety net is there and we encourage thatzzp'ers use it, because that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u139	I didn't ask about the similarities. I had asked about the differences between the Tozo and the arrangement that is now being offered to thezzp'ers. I conclude that the legality test and feasibility studies do not take place. So the Secretary of State says that municipalities are not going to do those tests and that you can claim this arrangement if you are azzp'er and knock on the door and can show that you are losing income. Second question. A difference is also that the scheme now offered tozzp'ers is in principle a loan. In retrospect, the extent to which income has been received is determined and the other part is converted into a gift. That's also an important difference with the Tozo. My question was what the differences are. The SP does not consider it justified to distinguish between the single-pitters and the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Van Kent, shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u141	Yes, but I would like an answer to the question of differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u142	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u143	I'm getting an answer about the similarities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u144	You want the differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u145	And the interruptions are limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u146	Well, seven interruptions is quite a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u147	I am trying through this debate to helpzzp'ers who might be looking or worried by saying under what conditions they can make use of this. That is why I would like to mention the similarities. Yesterday, Nieuwsuur also had a story in which I heard Roos Wouters say that you must have eaten your entire wealth first. No, it's not. That's what I want to say. Then the differences. I have here a whole list of all the differences. No problem to read it completely, but I will limit myself to the period of Tozo 5, from 1 July to 1 October. At that time we had a partner income test, no viability test, no capital test, but the monthly system, no cost sharing standard, but bet on reorientation and the introduction of an information obligation for entrepreneurs to make the Tozo more active. In the simplified Bbz we also simply have the partner test, the viability test, no power test, also the monthly system and the cost sharing standard and also the commitment to reorientation. I would like to refer specifically to the viability test, which I hear Mr Van Kent asking what it means in the near future. I understand from congregations that they have room and also experience enough space to deviate from this. The most important argument for municipalities to want the Bbz is that it is made enforceable for them. They see that such a viability test is complicated. That takes them a lot of time and lots of conversations in the execution. At the same time, it would be a shame if you didn't have a conversation about reorientation. So we say to municipalities: if you have to offer customization on your viability test, you have all the space, no problem at all, if you really help with the reorientation. I hope this will help Mr Van Kent. If there's gonna bezzp'ers, I'm not gonna check out a list to be tough and send them back home. No, I'm just trying to get thatzzp'er to the city. This is sometimes used to the municipality, but it is very important. We also want to help them stay up, and we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr. Van Kent, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u149	Then I conclude thatzzp'ers are not guaranteed in any way. It will vary from municipality to municipality whether or not they can claim support, and the partner test will remain. So if you have a partner who, for example, works in a shop behind the register, you will not get any support as a self-employed person, while you stop in the interests of public health and in the interests of all of us. The SP will therefore table a motion in the second term to bring the Tozo back into force without the partner test. We do not think that we should make that distinction between workers on the one hand who do support you, and the mono-pitters who leave you in the lurch. Finally, the question to the Secretary of State is whether he also sees that what is now there will mean for a lot of pitters that they will not get any support and that they will get into the financial problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u150	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't think it's gonna help in the proper coverage of the self-employed. It's complicated, you don't have new assignments right away, we can't help them. What we can do is organise the safety net and we will do so in the way I have just said. Let's talk about the partner income test. I understand that it is Mr Van Kent's wish. In Tozo 1 it was not; that was because of the speed. From all these Tozo structures afterwards, from 1 July 2020 onwards, the partner income test will apply. I understand that Mr Van Kent is a thorn in the eye, but we have discussed this very often in this Chamber. It's about tax money we like to spend on people to stay up. It is a reflection on how best to do that, and that choice was made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u151	Thank you. A clear line from the Secretary of State. Three very short questions. One: does this cover enough emergencies to prevent people from being evicted, for example? Two: the extended Bbz applies until the end of this quarter, but the restrictions are of course not over by 1-1-2022. And three: to what extent is there a relationship with the other route that runs towards special assistance and the high energy bills in which the Secretary of State is hard at work to come up with an additional concession?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u152	That's three questions in one interruption, the ancient trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u153	But short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u154	Well, that's what I'm talking about. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u155	That's okay, right? Thank you to Mr Grinwis for this. I'm just gonna peel them off. I'll be right back on the emergency, which I'll do in relation to the TONK. That is what this is about, and that is money for the special assistance which is also very clearly open tozzp'ers, in addition to the fact that there is already special assistance for the self-employed in an ordinary benefit, which I have just mentioned. The special assistance for self-employed workers is indeed applicable for this quarter. Mr Grinwis says: we also know that there will be new measures. Quite frankly, of course, I don't know. Mr Grinwis may already know that, but I am waiting for the decision to be taken. There will be an opinion from the OMT on new measures, there will be a press conference next week and I cannot hold a press conference that I have not yet seen. I don't know how that's gonna work out. There are people who argue for a total lockdown, and if so, there may be no need for support at all from January. It's just what measures we're about to take. But I understand the question very well. The question is: if we are going to take action, do not forget that we are keeping that space for the self-employed without the power test. I understand that call very well. If it turns out that, unfortunately, a new package of measures is needed, I think it would be wise to include this point by Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u156	At this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u158	That's what you get with such an extensive interruption that was short, but with three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u159	That was okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u160	Please proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yes. Then I'll come to the emergencies related to the energy bill. That's actually a little bit more about the TONK, the compensation for necessary costs. That arrangement ran until 30 September of this year. We have set aside 260 million for this through the Municipal Fund. We also saw that many municipalities offered this support after September 30th, sometimes even under the name TONK. I've seen it in The Hague, but it happens in even more places. That is also because there are still resources left. We have even added additional resources for special assistance, even after the decision-making in August. We do want to make sure that municipalities can provide support if there is an after-life effect on people. So we have already added these resources. We have also added additional resources for debt relief. That's important, too. That's what we see in this group. Mrs Maatoug gave a nice example from Utrecht last time, where all entrepreneurs were called and tried to map out. That's what we're gonna spread out. I shall also come back quickly to Mr Aartsen's motion on debts and entrepreneurs. It has already been filled out by the Secretary of State for Finance, but we are also looking to see if we can better help entrepreneurs with private debts. We try to make a covenant with parties, so that we can put actions on it, including Mrs Maatoug's initiative from Utrecht. I think that's very good for that. There is indeed a link to the energy bill in terms of money, but I am not going to keep it all waiting for each other. I hope that at the end of this week or the beginning of next week we can make a statement on how many people with lower incomes in the category of energy poverty can receive additional financial compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u162	I'm just gonna check on Mrs. Maatoug. Do you still have your question? I don't invite you very activistly to ask a question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u163	I have a few more questions to answer, so maybe that'll give people some ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u164	Before you go any further, I have an announcement to make. A number of Members have indicated that they are hungry. The bad news is that I am trying to keep going, also in view of the rest of the plenary agenda. Around an hour or two, the plenary Registry hopes that we will be finished with this debate, so it will also be a short day. Then you know that in between, I am looking at Mr Aartsen and perhaps I should eat an apple. Mr. Graus, do you have a question about this or do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u165	Madam President, I am raffling a waffle among those who are going to support my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u166	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u167	There goes the waffle; catch! The Secretary of State continues. After that, Mr Filipino will have the floor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u168	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm actually already inside. Thank you to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u169	Now Mrs Maatoug is coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u170	If we're not gonna have lunch... This is listening closely. We have just heard throughout the debate about the implementation consequences. I think that as a Chamber we should take this very seriously. We can't predict the world, but we also know that decisions are coming. I would be very sorry if we were to hear from 1 January: yes, but now I can't get it settled with the municipality. We know that the whole Chamber says with a lot of words 'that there are theatre makers, sound people and entrepreneurs in all kinds of sectors that cannot do their job because we have restrictions.' Those people don't fall into any arrangement. We just had a whole debate on that. Until January 1st there is that expanded Bbz, but from January 1st they blast into that old arrangement. So then all those words don't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u171	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u172	I heard an opening, so my question to the secretary or he can promise that we will make sure that we are ready in the implementation with municipalities if necessary, so that we are not too late again. Because people are already underwater.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u173	Full-bodied, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u174	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u175	Because we have to take it very seriously, so it has to be ready. That is what I said about the NOW in the previous debate. That's what we did back then. Because we had it ready, we hope to be able to help entrepreneurs with wage costs by mid-December. What have we learned from the Tozo to better understand the group? That question came from D66. We see that municipalities now have a lot of experience with this target group, when they did not have it before. That is also what we stated in the Maatoug/Grinwis motion. This has, of course, led to new insights on how to support this group. We have also seen that it is a very diverse group and that municipalities still find it quite difficult to respond to it. The safety net is one. You can offer that to anyone. The help and the reorientation are a second. We shared some of these insights in the letter of 12 November. I would like to refer briefly to that. Of course, we remain in consultation with municipalities, also because in the future role of municipalities and regional mobility centres, it is quite interesting whether they can support the target group of self-employed people. That is a large group in the Netherlands. So we like to learn these lessons and we want to apply them. The PvdA asked in what way employees with a flexible contract can be supported. Mrs. Kuik asked me to do that. I say to Mr Nijboer that, of course, this cabinet also sees that the corona measures end up in sectors with relatively flexible forces. We generally see that flex workers are more at risk of losing their jobs, and thus of losing their income. That's why we're creating the NOW now. I really want to emphasise that. We would also like to ask employers to keep these people in work, to keep them in service and thereby enable them to make ends meet. Now's gonna take a swing at that. That is the purpose of the report. The specific question was whether more is needed. We have had a lot of discussions about this in the Chamber: what can and cannot be done? I wasn't quite there, I'm telling you. Often it came out that something was difficult and also very much of the execution required. A dilemma letter was sent about this at the time. In the end, however, a system has been put in place, namely the Temporary Bridging Scheme for Flexible Labour, the TOFA. We have also seen that there has been rather limited use of this. It's important that we learn from that. The question is, do we have anything ready that you could call in right now? We don't see that. However, we have stepped up the regional mobility centres, invested the special assistance, set up the TONK and added new resources to it, precisely in order to help that group. In the so-called supplementary social package we have therefore found extra attention for this group. Mr. Chairman. In line with this question, the PvdA's question was whether we could retrain people in the assistance and the WW into deficit sectors. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about right now. I mentioned the RMTs. That's a bit of a professional term. They are help teams in which people from UWV and the municipalities sit together and see where they can find work and where they can provide help, but also if training is needed. In doing so, we are going to give everyone the opportunity to apply for €1,000 for a training course next year under the STAP budget and the Netherlands will continue to learn. This can very clearly help with retraining and further training. Mr. Chairman. In the letter of 26 November, we announced that, with the cuts and opportunities in the labour market, we are making extra money to help those who have been on the sidelines for some time now. We also draw up a plan with municipalities. You could say that's some kind of plan of attack against the cut. I hope to be able to share this with the Chamber soon and at least in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u176	That's nice to hear, but I expect a more active role. The cut is very heavy in hospitals and in nursing, also by corona. This also applies, for example, to childcare, where groups have to close. I don't think I need to tell my colleagues that. I am sorry that this training scheme stopped two corona debates ago. What is SZW doing from a coordinating role to ensure that people get to work there? I really want a more active role for the Secretary of State, not only in the structure, but also for colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u177	I appreciate any encouragement for this. Mrs Maatoug asks: what good is that? Appreciation's pretty, too, I'd say. This is indeed a very important point. This was also the subject of motions for resolutions in the Social Affairs budget last week. I'm rushing it. As far as I'm concerned, we're sending a letter about this before Christmas, but we need to send that good letter in coordination with the municipalities. That's what we're doing. That's exactly what these elements are in. You now add as an element what the government itself does and what my colleagues themselves do. I'm gonna add that. That's what I'm gonna tell all our people on this road. We often call that element, but if we make it explicit in a letter, the Chamber can look at it even more strongly. I like that idea. I'm not entirely on my own, but I'll take that in that letter. I'm almost there. I have a few more questions that I'm going to answer just a little bit more quickly. The PvdA has asked for a further suspension of the search period for young people up to 27 years old. The clear exception to the search period and also the legal basis for extending that measure by Royal Decree have now expired. So if we wanted to extend that measure, we would have to change it again. That's got some feet in the earth. In addition, we also see labour shortages, which means that we want to do our best to make the most of them. If the question is what possibilities do the municipalities have to fill in this search period with customization, then the answer is that this is possible. This is also possible in the Participation Act, very emphatically. Of course, you will have to submit an application for assistance to the college, but the municipality can make an individual assessment based on the personal situation and thus see how the young person can best be supported. We have pointed out to the municipalities that this is important. Let me ask you some loose questions. I have just mentioned that additional funds have been allocated to special assistance. We are also monitoring whether this will be enough in the light of the measures that are now in place. By the way, next week we will have the committee debate on poverty and debt. Maybe I'll know something more. Then we can get that involved. I am now checking to see if I am going to hit a colleague if I have not yet answered a particular question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u178	Are there any questions to the Secretary of State? Yes, I see Mr Nijboer and then Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u179	It's not an unanswered question. I want to tell the Secretary of State something else. Marijn de Vries was active in the program M. There she said: I had maternity leave, of course I didn't have a turnover at the time, and that actually makes me not eligible for all these schemes. The same applies, of course, to people who are ill. Also,zzp'ers get sick. They have to insure themselves, but they don't have sales in those months. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do anything for the group of people who have been on maternity leave or who have been ill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u180	That's a good question. I noticed that group back then, too. This has also been addressed. There were more cases that still passed by........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the same question I raised with us. I'm gonna find out where that is now, and I'll come back to it in second term. I had the same question as Mr Nijboer, but I do not know what happened in the meantime and what can be done. If I can't, I'll be honest with you. Then, of course, it's up to you. But I don't have that answer ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u181	Mr Nijboer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u182	If it can't be done, it has to be solved. It would be nice if you were pregnant or seriously ill, and then just didn't get anything. It happens. So there's gotta be something to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u183	Clear. The Secretary of State will return to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u184	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u185	Parliamentary questions have indeed been asked about this. I was hoping they would have been answered for this debate. I asked a question about a joint monitoring of the handling of the aid packages in the first period. At the moment we get three separate progress reports from the three ministries. I think it would be good if these three progress reports on the handling of the aid packages were included in a single document, in view of the Court's supervisory role. That saves a lot of trouble on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u186	Yes. That was what I was just referring to when I answered Mrs Maatoug's question. She meant something different than I meant, but I meant the point Mr Aartsen is making here. I understand the need to see how the support measures are working out, also in relation to each other. We therefore intend to send the reports to the Chamber at the same time. That way we can also look at it in conjunction. The aim is to send it in the first quarter of 2022. Then we also have a logical moment, given also the reopening of aid measures or other measures. So we will send that to the Chamber in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you for this commitment. Mr. Van Baarle, you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u188	That's right. In fact, I am going to ask my question about that refund. In my view, repayment is seen as a result of two factors: the Tozo and the TONK. An element in which the municipality is required to provide customised services is then the amount of aid received and an element imposed nationally, i.e. the date 1 January 2022 when it comes to the Tozo credit. I have two questions about this in the direction of the Secretary of State. The first question is: to what extent does the State Secretary monitor that this tailor-made work is also being applied sufficiently towards entrepreneurs who are currently struggling and who may have to pay back on 1 January? I know entrepreneurs who already have accounts because of too much support money from the Tozo. Two. Should we not postpone the arrangement whereby people have to repay the Tozo loan on 1 January 2022? This arrangement is far too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u189	These are two questions, namely: do you keep an eye on this? And do we have the image that it's enough, or should we give more space and postpone it? I think it's two good questions. I can tell we're dependent on municipalities. I've been visiting a number of municipalities. Some municipalities call everyone. Rotterdam has organized a variety of agencies and support teams around it. There are also volunteers who help. I did ask, do you have a picture of that group? Some have an image, others don't. I have that same concern about keeping it in the picture. You still have a very specific concern about whether we are able to deal with people who have taken out a loan and whether we are helping them to get out or not. At the same time, of course, I tell people all day: if you're in debt, go to the city, they can help you. A lot of people don't do that. It would be very strange for the municipality to say: we are not going to do that. I was just saying that payment agreements can be made. You can also stretch it for up to five years. There are opportunities for the municipalities to do so. So if your question is "can you check again if that happens and if that's enough?', I'd like to say yes to that. We're going to take stock of that in the municipalities. I think that's important. I take the point about the postponement into account, with the question of whether they have that in view and what they think should be additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u190	I thank the Secretary of State for that commitment. In my view, the second is that the repayment of that Tozo credit should start on 1 January 2022, as a result of national rules. I could be wrong, but then the cabinet would have to be generous. Could the Secretary of State, in line with this commitment, also make a commitment to call on municipalities to be able to pay back? In fact, I think it would be a good idea to remind municipalities once again that this is now necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u191	I will. I'll look it up later, but I've seen the specific articles with which you can do this, also from municipalities. I'm gonna find out, but I'm gonna ask whether that's enough or whether we need to clarify something in the monitoring commitment. If we have to clarify it, we are not going to wait for the moment when we have to send a letter, but then of course we are going to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u192	I asked the same question as Mr Van Baarle, my colleague from DENK. I have even referred to the Greeks, who are allowed to spend 30 years on repayment, and to hard-working entrepreneurs. I also mentioned the figures. This is what I say to the people who listen at home. This is always interesting, otherwise it will be a boring debate. During the crisis, 270,000 entrepreneurs alone have accumulated 19.2 billion in tax debts. Mr. Van Baarle asked for a commitment. Thank you for that. That also answers my question, and it may not be possible for the motion to be tabled. Can the Minister also talk to the Association of Dutch Municipalities, so that there is real pressure to do so? I heard the Secretary of State say to Mr Van Baarle twice: it is possible. But it has to be done. So I hope we can get a broader commitment. Then I can waive my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u193	That's good. You have already made that commitment, because you have thrown a waffle on the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u194	Yeah, I already got that waffle. But it is a good point from Mr Graus. There's actually two questions underneath. The first question is whether municipalities themselves have a sufficient picture of this. That is also the point Mrs Maatoug mentioned earlier and she said: I saw a good example in Utrecht. We are now working on a letter about entrepreneurs who are in debt. There is already a specific example of this, because we want to bring it to the attention of many more municipalities, so that many more municipalities are going to do so. One part of the commitment to Mr Graus would be to bring that to the attention of many more municipalities and also to say that that seems sensible to us. The second question is: if you have that insight, do you use it to approach that entrepreneur? And do you help that entrepreneur by saying: we also have opportunities for you to make an arrangement or to postpone something? That question is actually somewhat along the lines of Mr Van Baarle's. I have to discuss this with the municipalities and also, in part, take stock of whether they experience it that way or not. If, as Mr Van Baarle says, there is something rural underneath which I must send, I will not fail to do so. But for that, I have to figure it out first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u195	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Or does Mrs Maatoug have another afterburner? Yeah? Last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u196	When we have these debates, there is normally also a debate on culture and emergency aid there. Many spokesmen have said: theatres are closed, pop stages are closed. So it's very intense for the whole sector. That's because of the measures. I asked Minister Blok the question just now and I would like to ask him again. Perhaps you could take him with you in second term. There is an incredibly nice proposal for a safety net regulation. Every time we talk about the individual cases of people who just fall out of everything. Of this we all say: this is poignant; this is really not the intention. I think that's a very charming proposal. I imagine that you are not doing so in the debate, but perhaps you can take it with you in the second term, for example, if you answer the question about pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u197	A suggestion and a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u198	I'm gonna do my best. I need to check that out. I can certainly say something about it. If that's enough, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u199	Well, that's gonna prove it. Thank you to this Secretary of State. I shall then give the floor to Secretary of State Vijlbrief for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u200	I think it'll take me an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u201	An hour? That sounds promising.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr. Chairman. A number of Members of Parliament have asked about tax delays and tax debts. That is an important point. Tax delays have been an important instrument from the start of the corona crisis to date. It is always a difficult balance between giving delay on the one hand and thus giving liquidity to entrepreneurs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is essentially the dilemma here. We have chosen to postpone the tax period for four months until the end of January, and that is what the Chamber knows by now, and that is exactly what the letter says in order to extend the tax period until the end of January, so that there is a proper delay for everyone who wants to use it. In addition, we have left the recovery rate, which we wanted to raise slowly to give people an impetus to redeem, longer to zero, or 0.01% because otherwise the system will run wild. It stays at zero until 1 July 2022 and only goes to 1%. I think that, in the case of tax debts, we have almost achieved the optimum of what we can do between building too many debts on the one hand and giving liquidity to entrepreneurs on the other. At the same time, as the Chamber knows, next year will start a period in which entrepreneurs, if they even have the five years... I say that to Mr Graus, because he asked in the debate: can entrepreneurs not get five years? The answer to Mr Graus' question is that they will have five years from October next year. But if even that is not enough, then that may be the case with a viable company.... we have agreed a settlement. That is a bit against Mr Grinwis' question about what he called'shrinking cases'. I'm just gonna grab it at this point. For a viable company that is being postponed for five years and still does not have enough room to pay off, we agreed that in those specific cases the Tax Administration would be able to take a step back in the hierarchy of the tax requirement for a limited period. This means that they will not ask for the double amount normally paid to the other claimants, but the single amount. That only applies in those cases. Again, we try to be careful, because it is tax money, the money of all of us. That's the balance that's always being made here. I think that we are once again helping the entrepreneurs who, as the Chamber rightly says, are in trouble because of the measures we have to take. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maatoug asked: is it true that entrepreneurs are reluctant to repay their debts? Where we saw a huge wave of redemption in the summer of last year when the measures were lifted, we do not yet see it. At least that's true. So entrepreneurs are stuck on their money now. I can imagine. If I were an entrepreneur myself, I'd wait a little while, I guess, under the guise of "you never know what's gonna happen." However, it is really not the intention of this cabinet to get rid of it. I just said that. I've always said that. I have said from the outset that I thought that was unjust and not sensible. Mr. Chairman. That's what I wanted to say about tax debts. Then I have a few brief comments on other subjects, because I am replacing the Minister today. Mr Graus asked how the heavily affected sport sector would be supported. Mr Graus knows that we have supported the sport sector from the outset. Even now money goes to amateur sport. I call swimming pools and ice rinks. There is also attention for professional sport. A maximum of 36 million has been set aside for damage caused by the fact that top sporting events could no longer be played with the public. Now that we have reopened the NOW and extended the TVL, it is still the period of that special scheme for top sport and the top sport can simply use the rules that were there again. Mr Van Haga and Mr Amhaouch asked: what about the fireworks entrepreneurs? At the moment, the cabinet is working very hard on a regulation for fireworks entrepreneurs. The Secretary of State for IenW is in talks with relevant parties and the Cabinet will inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the arrangements to be made there. That brings me to the last answer. That was about the loans in the cultural sector. Mr De Jong has asked a specific question about this. It was about the cultural lending facility. The Culture Start-up Loan enables the organisation to invest independently. The Cultural Capital Loan is for organisations with a demonstrable operating shortage. This year, just over 40 million euros have been spent on the Culture Start-up Loan and the Cultural Capital Loan. That is what Mr De Jong asked: how much is left? Well, about EUR 7 million for this quarter, I say to Mr De Jong. The current restrictions and specific support measures also run until the end of this year. Whether more is needed in the period after that, depends a bit on what you do the period after that. But for this year, there seems to be enough money in that pot. Mr. Chairman. That concludes my hour, unless there are any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u203	I'm just looking at the members, but I don't have the impression there are any questions. So thank you for your answer. We will continue with the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you, Madam President. I shall begin by reading my motions in the first place. But thank you also for all the commitments made by the government. I thought the Secretary of State had already started my waffle, so I wanted to wish him a good meal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow for a faster opening of the Supplementary Meeting Events (ATE),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u205	So the motion was co-signed by commando and minister Van Haga. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the turnover loss threshold and to reimburse affected entrepreneurs 100% of the burden, where and where possible per month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u206	In the previous motion, it is logical that a part has already been promised in a certain scheme for that 100%, but again: it is always a stick behind the door. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed percentage of turnover reduction for which TVL aid may be granted has been set at 30%;]] [[having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular the ……]] [[calls on the government to reduce the TVL threshold rate from 30% to 15%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-427]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u207	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to delayzzp'ers, but to provide clarity and certainty by extending the duration of the Tozo without a partner test (as well as TVL) as long as necessary, but at least until mid 2022, and by aligning the possibilities of reimbursement with those of the NOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u208	This motion has therefore also been co-signed by the honourable Member, Mr Van Haga. A motion will now be tabled for the benefit of the people of Limburg and Limburg entrepreneurs. Limburg is really my homeland. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the flood disaster has hit Limburg's entrepreneurs particularly hard in combination with the corona measures;]] [[Furthermore, noting that the Disaster Compensation Act does not cover loss of turnover and that the NOW and TVL schemes do not adequately cover the turnover lost;]] [[Whereas the disaster occurred in the summer, a season in which catering and other seasonal businesses achieve the highest turnover of the year;]] [[calls on the Government to meet the affected entrepreneurs with speed by means of a generous turnover loss scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u209	I didn't like the Amhaouch auch zoe ungerteikene, mer det hat hae neet gedaon. Amhaouch is my colleague in Limburg. Maybe he'll do it later. I see he's willing to do it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u210	A hand-out from Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u211	Thanks. I think that's very nice. His partymate will appreciate that, too, Mayor Daan Prevoo. That's a man who's gonna have to get a statue here in the State Passage of our original House of Representatives. So thank you. I wish you a very blessed day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u212	Thank you to Mr Graus. I call Mr Nijboer, Mr PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Against my habit I have quite a stack of motions, including one that the CDA also submits on our behalf to stay in conversation with social partners. This is because these measures once again have a huge impact on entrepreneurs andzzp'ers, for people who are back at work and after a year thought, even after the vaccination campaign, to finally be rid of them. Now it turns out they're back to square one. The cabinet is taking serious action. It's really a billion-dollar package. It is a huge package of aid, as it was last time, and at the same time we in the Chamber must keep an eye on all these individual problems. Whether you've been pregnant and can't claim the right to make arrangements. Whether you run a bowling center and you have to look at the sales of the past few months and actually get nothing back. Whether you'rezzp'er in the culture or the actor and it's all closed in the evening. It all depends on contracts. On almost nothing, on water, bread and welfare you are on. We must continue to draw attention to this. That's our job. We must do justice to that, hence these motions. I'll read them to you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that flex workers are being put back on the streets because of the announced corona measures;]] [[Whereas, on 1 October, municipalities will no longer be able to support young unemployed people directly, including financially, to work;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the decision to abolish the search period for young people up to 27 years of age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that flex workers and self-employed persons were the first to suffer the adverse financial consequences of the corona measures;]] [[Whereas flex workers often do not have buffers to cover the loss of income;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities to re-open the safety net for flex workers, the TONK, and to make funds available for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-430]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u214	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a motion that is truly unjust. If you've gotten sick or got pregnant, there's really nothing you can do about it. That's what the whole room thinks, too, I think. It's just not well arranged right now, so that needs to be arranged. The Secretary of State will return to it in the second term, but we don't have a third term anymore, so I'll file the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas operators, including those who have been pregnant or ill, had no turnover in those months;]] [[whereas it is unreasonable for them not to be entitled to the various aid schemes for this reason;]] [[calls on the cabinet to consider individually for these groups whether there is another measure to be used to compensate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u215	I come to my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas culture employs many self-employed persons and the compensation packages are very limited for them;]] [[Whereas culture is of great value to our society;]] [[calls on the Cultural Office to broaden the support measures and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-433]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u216	I wish the members of the cabinet a great deal of wisdom in the implementation of the aid measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u217	Thank you to Mr Nijboer. I call Mr De Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased with the letter sent by the cabinet. It contains new support packages. We have been able to help a lot of entrepreneurs who were in uncertainty. Entrepreneurs do not need support directly, but clarity. And that clarity has been given to the cabinet and I am very grateful to them for that. Entrepreneurs are keen to undertake. They don't want to depend on us, on our support packages. But wherever we can, we still support them. I still have concerns. I have expressed these concerns in the first term and I have just tried to make them known to the Minister. We are talking about start-ups, who cannot now claim support via the TVL, although they do deserve it. These entrepreneurs have even started their own business at this difficult time and are also going to help us move forward. I would also like to come back to the cultural sector, which is having a hard and difficult time. I have heard several colleagues, including from the SP and GroenLinks. I was also pleased that the Secretary of State replied to the question of how to proceed with the loans granted to that sector, because these loans will enable entrepreneurs in the cultural sector to start up again in the near future and that they will be able to borrow easily and at a very favourable rate, so that, hopefully, this sector will be able to stand on its own feet soon after the pandemic. But unlike the Secretary of State, I'm concerned about the budget that's still in place. That's gonna run pretty fast. That is why I would like to see an increase in that budget. That is why I have a motion that I would like to share with the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the impact on creators and creative entrepreneurs as a result of the pandemic is still significant, for example in the case of substantial revenue losses;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has therefore previously given this group the opportunity to borrow money through the Culture Start-up Loan and the Culture Capital Loan of Culture+Entrepreneurship so that they can continue to invest in new productions, programmes and exhibitions and that this has been a great success;]] [[Whereas the resources available for these loans are almost exhausted;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to supplement these funds, in the context of the reinforced measures and generic support, if Q1 shows that these funds have been exhausted while still needed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Wuite, Mr Aartsen, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u220	Thank you to Mr De Jong. I call Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u221	Mr. Chairman. The basic rule must be that if the almighty State does harm, the State will compensate this damage 100%. This principle is not applied and BVNL thinks this is bad. Entrepreneurs are faced with a Kafkaesque knitting of bureaucratic rules that are completely incomprehensible to the average entrepreneur. The EU state aid limit imposed by the TVL of 2.3 million shows once again that EU membership does not bring any benefits in the corona crisis either. BVNL strongly objects to the fact that the Dutch entrepreneur has to pay the full account of this crisis, which is almost entirely caused by the measures taken by this cabinet. No one believes that the virus is being combated by gyms and the catering industry at 5:00 p.m., by not letting children train outside after 5:00 p.m. or by banning swimming lessons. This cabinet actively damages the importance of the Netherlands. The best support would be the immediate elimination of all senseless and harmful corona measures. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of motions. I'm glad I have two minutes, because otherwise all this couldn't have happened. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas economic operators have for many years to recover financially from the corona restrictions;]] [[calls on the Government to hold recovery interest on outstanding tax debts at 0.01% until 1 January 2024,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona measures restrict economic operators;]] [[Whereas labour costs for entrepreneurs are covered;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the subsidy rate of NOW 5 from 85% to 100%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government's measures lead to a loss of revenue and a financial crisis;]] [[Whereas the DGA has not been included in the previous NOW schemes so far;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the salary of the DGA can also be compensated when the NOW is opened up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that economic operators are repeatedly affected by the corona measures and do not know where they stand;]] [[Whereas economic operators have no clarity as to when to return to normal;]] [[calls on the government to provide a long-term perspective showing what entrepreneurs can expect per situation in the future and addressing support for entrepreneurs after corona,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-435]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-436]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-437]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-438]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u223	Thank you to Mr Van Haga. That puts the counter on 14 motions, if I've kept up with it. We continue with Mr. Aartsen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join Mr Nijboer's questions about entrepreneurs who are out of business because of pregnancy. I also asked Parliament questions about this. I hope that the cabinet will be able to indicate that they fall within the scope of the regulations in the distressing cases. I also agree with Mr Van Kent's questions concerning the third quarter of the event guarantee fund. I think it is wise that this should happen, so that entrepreneurs who want to plan something for the coming summer can also work forward. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a motion on the starter arrangement. I don't agree with the cabinet about the risk. Corona is not an entrepreneurial risk. A lot of entrepreneurs started last summer, not knowing that this would come at them. I believe that if the government says 'your case is closed', it must be supported properly, including for people who started that period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that operators registered between 30 June 2020 and 30 September 2021 are again excluded;]] [[Whereas the previous group "starters" had months of discussion on a separate TVL start-up scheme;]] [[Whereas this system, with changes in the definition of the group of economic operators and the reference period, could now also be used for the new group which is excluded;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide a separate TVL Start-up Scheme for all entrepreneurs registered in the Trade Register between 1 July 2020 and 30 September 2021 and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Romke de Jong, Amhaouch and Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u225	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to dwell a little more on the motion I am about to table. It deals with the problems involved in the implementation of the aid measures. I have to admit that filing this motion was hard on my stomach. From March 202 onwards, we are working day and night to compensate for the economic damage caused by corona. I have incredibly much respect for how we did that, because it's a huge job. As Mr Graus said, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs have received support. It is true that this aid was sometimes incomplete; unfortunately, that is not possible either. Also there was no customization; that was never asked. We can see that there are problems. That was also a bit of the debate with the Minister; that became clear in that. We just see the performance's getting tighter. We see that the number of objections is rising sky high and currently leads to reservoirs. Of the objections lodged a year ago, not even half of them have been dealt with. And I am not talking about the entrepreneurs who object in the coming period because there has already been a third court ruling to apply a correction to the scheme. I can go on like this for a while. We were just having the discussion about the starter arrangement. Things just don't go well in execution. I would be happy if we could come up with a plan so that we can improve that. We must learn lessons from each other, on the basis of the Van Dam Committee and the Bosman Committee. The Chamber has made it very clear that we must be on top of the implementation: we must ask for it and send it so that it gets better. That is not because the people who work there are making mistakes at the moment, because they are working very hard on it, but because we in the Chamber have the responsibility to carry out our controlling task. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation, adaptation and payment of various support measures for entrepreneurs, despite the involvement of the staff in the implementation organisations, is currently lagging behind considerably;]] [[noting that it is not possible in time to provide distressing cases and start-ups which have been closed with support, that there are court rulings which require additional corrections and that there are currently obstacles to appeal;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with an additional implementation plan to improve the implementation of the support packages, making them a top priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Grinwis and Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Community money spent on support for businesses so that they can keep people in service must of course never go to profits or to bonuses for the top. We saw it at Booking.com: a painful example where that happened. I would ask the Secretary of State to confirm here once again that the guarantee is given that if companies make use of this aid, there can never be any question of bonuses being paid or profit payments being made. I would have asked a number of questions about the guarantee scheme. If you want to organize a scholarship or a festival or something, you do it long in advance. This guarantee scheme is now due to expire in the second quarter of next year, which means that a lot of organisations do not know where they stand. I really want to ask the Cabinet to give the guarantee that at least until the end of the third quarter the existing guarantee scheme will be extended. And if that can be promised, I will withdraw my motion immediately, but otherwise the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the event sector has been seriously affected by the continuing corona pandemic;]] [[noting that the organisation of events, top-level sporting events, fairs, festivals and the like requires long preparation;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the existing guarantee fund for events at least until the third quarter of 2022, so that organisers can continue their preparations for next year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-441]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u227	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the big problem that the self-employed, who have single-pitters, currently have in the Netherlands. They must close their cases in the interests of public health. In the interests of all of us, they must cease their work, but they do not receive any guarantee of support. We've just heard from the Secretary of State: you can use the hat in your hand to knock on the door to the municipality for help. But there's no guarantee. Differences may arise between the different municipalities in the Netherlands. The amount you get will be deducted first from your partner's income. So a lot of people who have a partner who has a job, who are cashiers or who work in the care sector, get zero euros of support anyway. And that is why once again the appeal to the cabinet: do not make that unjust distinction between workers and single-pitters, but also make sure that those single-pitters are supported. That is why we are asking for the Tozo, the income system as it existed, to be put back in place. It can simply be performed without that partner test, so that, apart from your partner's income, you get that support that is desperately needed. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make arrangements forzzp'ers similar to the Tozo, but without a partner test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u229	Thank you. I call Mr Amhaouch, CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that today we have also had the second term of the debate on the corona aid measures. And I can say, and I also hear from entrepreneurs, that the cabinet has put in a solid package; I think perhaps the most solid package in Europe. And we also have to think about that once in a while. Because we have this TVL, we have this NOW, we have the special assistance with a wide rapprochement, and we have postponed the tax measures, which is very important for those entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, I think we have had a sharp debate about the starters. I support and am co-host of the VVD's motion to continue this support for start-ups that we have talked about in the first period. 'Cause we gotta cherish those starters. This is happening with the NOW, and I also think that this looming error should be repaired for the TVL. Thank you also for the two commitments made by the Minister of Economic Affairs, to return to the stopper regime and to the bronze-green oak wood, which was about the water pollution: how this decline in turnover is related to that TVL in Q4, the arrangements in Q4; whether we should do something extra there, so that we have a good solution for those people there at least. Mr. Chairman. Then of course the appreciation for those people at the RVO, but also at UWV. We have had a sharp debate on this too. But I do think we should see what can be more effective. And after two years, we might have to do some things differently, because this is gonna be with us for a while. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to three motions. The first is about where we lost the social partners somewhere: the employers' organisations and the workers' organisations. That is very important to us, and that is why this motion is also being tabled with Mrs Kuik of the PvdA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the restrictive corona measures have a significant impact on companies, their employees andzzp'ers;]] [[Considering the importance of social acceptance and involvement of social partners and the shared responsibility to emerge jointly from the crisis;]] [[Whereas, at the beginning of the corona crisis, there was frequent and periodic consultation between the public authorities and the social partners to jointly combat the corona crisis and to consider what is necessary to avoid as much as possible economic and employment damage. to be taken into account;]] [[calls on the Government to resume consultations with the social partners in the short term and to consider how a common perspective can contribute to a stable approach to the corona crisis and to continue this dialogue on a structural basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. I have said it many times in various debates: seven out of the twelve provinces of the Netherlands borders on Germany and Belgium. In the corona crisis, we always see the great differences between the two countries. This has consequences for the people working at the border. That shouldn't have any disadvantages. The Council adopted a resolution on this subject on 3 December. That's why we're making this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas seven of the twelve provinces border Belgium and/or Germany;]] [[noting that differences in corona rules for residents and entrepreneurs in border regions may cause problems, e.g. in terms of entry measures, vaccination rules or opening hours;]] [[Considering the importance of good coordination between local, regional and national authorities;]] [[Considering that on 3 December 2021 the Council adopted a resolution calling, inter alia, for "special mechanisms to respond to crises, which are not only in line with national rules, but also in line with the specificities of border regions';]] [[Calls on the Government to take note of the EUREGIO Council's Corona Resolution, to discuss this with border regions and municipalities, to explore ways to avoid problems resulting from differences in corona rules as far as possible, and to inform the Q1 2022 Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the final motion. This is about the carnival industry, to make their voices heard in this House of Representatives. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas fairgrounds are of great traditional and cultural value for the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the corona crisis has had a significant impact on the fairground sector and fairground owners have been properly tested;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the fairground sector and (carnival) municipalities and to explore what is necessary to preserve the fairground tradition and culture for the future, and to inform the Chamber in Q1 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u233	I understand these motions about fairgrounds come back every time. I once had a commitment from the government that this is already happening. That's a promise. I am always afraid that if a motion is rejected, that commitment will also lapse. The Chamber has already made a commitment not only to enter into conversation with the carnival industry, but also to continue to do so. I've already arranged two meetings with the two carnival associations and the government. I always think it's dangerous. I will support the motion again, but it is of course dangerous. If there is a promise, there is a promise. It's nice for the stage, but it could be dangerous. If the motion is immediately rejected, the government says: okay, we don't have to do that anymore; goodbye!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u234	We deliberately chose this motion. We did have a commitment. I think the carnival industry is a typical industry. We talk a lot about big sectors here. We're talking about catering, other industries, and I know what. They have a good lobby; they are well organized. I agree with Mr Graus, but Mr Van Haga and others have also regularly drawn attention to this. I think, apart from the money, we should start the conversation. I've spoken to several aldermen in the big fairgrounds. Take Tilburg, Heerenveen, Volendam or Blaricum; it doesn't matter. Get on the phone and see what these people need. Money is always one, but there are many more aspects to it. How do you deal with permits? How do you deal with flow-through locations? How do you handle certification of those expensive equipment they have? I agree. We've got to hang in there. Give those people a voice and talk to them, because that is also important in this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u235	Thank you. We will soon hear from the cabinet how the commitment already made to Mr Graus is being implemented. Then we'll see what happens to this motion. I call Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply, and from this point on I would also like to express a word of appreciation towards the cabinet, but in particular towards the officials who are working so hard in the implementation of these support packages. Despite the fact that we may differ here in the Chamber on how they are rolled out, it is an enormous achievement. We appreciate that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Secretary of State Wiersma for the commitment on the customisation that municipalities provide in reimbursement, to see if national regulations need to be adapted. We hope to see that soon, also to help entrepreneurs. We have signed the motion by Mr Van Kent of the SP to underline the plea for self-employed workers. We also see the concerns, including the concerns about the regulations currently in place, which are too dependent on further requirements, such as a partner test, and the whims of municipalities. Mr. Chairman. I also supported the taxi industry in the notebook meeting. I may be wrong, but I think I missed that in the response of the cabinet. DENK will always stand up for the taxi industry when there are corona measures. This industry is very close to our hearts. That business has been hit hard. If it is right, there is currently an investigation into the liquidity of the taxi industry, into how the taxi industry is doing as a result of corona. But the least we can do right now is for all those taxi entrepreneurs who are having a hard time talking to leasing and insurance companies to make sure that they get coulance now. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the taxi industry has been hit hard;]] [[calls on the Government to resume talks with leasing and insurance companies in order to ensure the coulance of taxi drivers affected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u238	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. Then Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u239	Thank you, Mr President, for your excellent leadership, and thank you also to the cabinet for listening very carefully to the Chamber and to the various sectors. This was demonstrated by the letter we received and by various extensions, which also took a good look at the basis for the NOW scheme. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. As if the corona crisis had not yet been severe enough for many, we are also facing very high inflation, the highest in many decades. As a result, in combination with the corona crisis, a lot of people are going to get in trouble. You'll only lose your job or see your sales dry up, and then you'll have to deal with a high gas bill and expensive groceries. I therefore welcome the comprehensive response of the SZW Secretary of State and the benevolent attitude. We look forward to the letter he's going to send at the end of this week or early next week and from which, if it's right, action will come that's really gonna help. It is very important that low incomes with high energy bills, and perhaps even coronal, should be helped, not in the long term but in the short term. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a specific emergency, which I'd like to specifically zoom in on. I am talking here about income support for people in need, for example people who work in prostitution. The bbz, or the special assistance, is almost never feasible for this group. On paper, almost nozzp'er in this sector is in the possession of a viable company. For a welfare allowance, they have to stop prostitution immediately and unsubscribe from the Chamber of Commerce. People often don't dare. This leads to working in illegality, with all the dangers of that. I therefore want the motion Bikker c.s. Remembrance. Then I've got the motion in part no. 1210 (25295) of 12 May this year, which asked the government to keep support measures available for people working in prostitution when they do not work or work less because of the corona crisis. I am not going to retable this motion, because it has been tabled and adopted, but I would ask the cabinet to take this motion seriously, because it is unabatedly relevant and proper to implement. Finally, the Bbz. I have another motion on this subject, thanks to the Secretary of State for his reaction. We all don't have a glass ball, but we can all extrapolate. To ensure that on 1 January 2022 the enlarged Bbz does not stop the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the PMI was extended until 1 January 2022;]] [[Whereas economic operators are expected to need support beyond that time due to the effects of the restrictions imposed;]] [[Whereas the BMI scheme assesses the company's viability, thereby reducing the risk of non-viable companies being maintained;]] [[calls on the Government to act in consultation with municipalities in order to extend the extended rules for the Bbz for at least the first quarter of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u240	Mr. Chairman. That was my only motion. I have signed with a few motions, for example on start-ups and implementation issues. I hope they're gonna make it and that that's gonna lead to something positive. I'm curious about the answers to the questions about pregnancy, because that's something that happens to you at some point. Then it is very annoying if that period, in which you have not been able to make sales, determines how you are treated. Finally, I agree with Mr Amhaouch's question on how the flooded entrepreneurs in Limburg are now being helped. In fact, Mr Graus' motion saw that as well. We all know the WTS is too short. Last week, in LNV's budgetary treatment, the Minister of LNV has already been very helpful to entrepreneurs affected by the floods when it comes to drowning their crops. But there are indeed entrepreneurs in the catering industry. That is what my CDA colleague has already said. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u241	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. I'm not sure I'm going to say anything about someone getting pregnant, but we can talk about that later at lunch. Mrs Maatoug, you have the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u242	Thank you for that sentence, Mr President. This is why it is important that there are many women in politics. I must say that every time we have such a corona emergency debate, I hope it is the last debate. I think we all do. We don't want to stand here. We were hoping we were in a whole different situation here. I am very pleased with the debate that we have had today and last week, because we, like the healthcare colleagues, are now also talking about what the long term looks like. What are the prospects? What are the complex trade-offs that people have to make, workers, self-employed entrepreneurs? We are very pleased with the commitment of the Minister of EZK to send a letter on that greater economic story and on the trade-offs in it and the entrepreneurial risk. It is good that the labour market is included in this. The motion together with the colleague of the CDA has been well read and inserted. I couldn't have done better. It is also very nice to have been given a commitment to include the shortage in the labour market and the role of the government itself in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u243	You meant the colleague of the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u244	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u245	CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u246	The Christian Union. Apologies. It was Mr Grinwis, for clarity and for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u247	The gentleman of the pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u248	Thank you, Mr President, for that correction. But the compliment had arrived, right? Yeah, check. Well, I guess I still have something to say. We are talking about a lot of sectors here. We're talking about people between shore and ship. There is no cultural debate this week and there are self-employed people in the cultural sector who have been falling apart for a year and a half. There is no support for them. We try to tweak all the time and we listen very carefully to Minister Blok who says that not everything is feasible. At the same time, we all say that these situations are extremely poignant. We have nice and big words about the importance of the cultural sector in the Netherlands. This is about technology, about women and men, this is about people, about theatre makers. They can't help the doors of the pop stages and the theatres closing. I have asked the question a few times, so I hope that in the second term we will get some answers about the safety net arrangement, or that we will get another answer via a letter from OCW. Still, this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new corona measures are again disproportionately affecting the cultural and creative sectors;]] [[noting that too many workers in this sector are still falling between shore and ship, because aid is not sufficiently transparent and/or people are not eligible for any scheme;]] [[considers it important to ensure the continuity of the sector and to preserve people and businesses for the cultural and creative sector;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a safety net scheme for the cultural sector forzzp'ers and flexworkers, who can prove that contracts have fallen, and who are not, in any other way, entitled to compensation or payment of their work or principals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug, Mr Westerveld, Mr Nijboer and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-448]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u249	As I walked over here, I saw that the cabinet is going to buy a work of art. I'm sure we'll talk about that in other committees. It shows how important culture is over several decades, but it is really painful to see that there are so few resources for creators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u250	Mr Aartsen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u251	I was slightly surprised because no sector receives a separate support package except for culture. Culture now gets 68 million more. The catering industry gets nothing special, the travel sector gets nothing special et cetera et cetera et cetera. The idea of that money is that it's mostly seeping through. Isn't the problem also a little bit in the cultural sector itself? Isn't the problem also a little with the state-funded institutions that say about the money we give them: we mock it up instead of passing it on to the creators and to the people who work here? Should we be a little more critical of the people who receive that money, of those grants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u252	Thank you for this question. Our cultural colleagues have had this debate all the time. The aim is indeed to let the money go to the creators, and it is now with the institutions. So we ask these questions every time. But in the end we're standing here and there's people. I named the ma'am and the ma'am and the creators who didn't see it. Then the question is, what do you do? At the TVL you fall between shore and ship. You don't belong to the NOW because you don't belong to flex workers. Thezzp measures are rather limited. If you keep falling between shore and ship, this arrangement seems very good to us. The advantage of this arrangement, which has been worked out by the Kunstenbond, is that you only get it if you do not qualify for regular arrangements for all those other sectors. In view of the discussions that our colleagues have had in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, I think this is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u253	Then I think it is important to make a nuance in this debate. No sector gets any extra money except the cultural sector. He's getting extra money. The problem is also a bit in the sector itself. The theater doesn't pay off thezzp'ers. The theatres and institutions receive 68 million, of which 15 million are intended to seep through. The people who get the 15 million we should send an angry letter on behalf of the Chamber: boys, make sure that money goes to your employees!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u254	What I can say is, make sure you pay people. That's the point Lisa Westerveld and I made in all the cultural debates. I'm gonna make a point back, too. Now it seems as if it is very generous, but yesterday on television I heard my colleague from the VVD say that people in culture can offer themselves somewhere else. We don't say that about employees in other sectors. We have all said here that the most important thing is that people do not fall between feet and feet, and that is why we are tabling this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u255	Those were not my words, Mrs Maatoug has to say. I have outlined the dilemma between people we do not want to keep on the side for long, and also creativity and innovation. Mrs Maatoug says here that things are going wrong in the cultural sector, but then we must also be honest about where it goes wrong. The cultural sector is the only sector for which there is a separate support package, and it needs to see through. That doesn't happen to the people sitting there. We need to be critical of the institutions and we need to be honest with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u256	Mr De Jong then also has an interruption on this point. Very briefly, Mrs Maatoug will then have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u257	I would like to underline the importance that Mrs Maatoug has outlined here, but I also understand that your motion is a difficult package. On the one hand, with the cabinet itself, you also outline the dilemma that there is a maximum limit on exports. There can be very little. On the other hand, several parties in the Chamber are aware of the desire to help the sector. I have also tabled a motion on this subject myself. I therefore ask Mrs Maatoug not to create a conflict here in this Chamber, but we all support the cultural sector as broad as we can. Only the way in which we can help them now differs in the Cabinet and the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u258	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u259	When we look at the facts, we see that it takes a very long time for the event sector. We've had a very intense festival season. We can see that this sector is being hit very hard, and we can see from debate at debate that does not see the light of day. As we have all done, we are calling for attention to be paid to this. I would also like to say to D66: our creators in the cultural sector have nothing to do with fine words. People haven't been falling into any of these regulations for a year and a half, and it's not piercing. And the question is, what are we going to do about it? I do not think that is enough, and that is why we are proud to table this motion. We can differ on this, and so it should be in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u260	Thank you, Mrs Maatoug. We have come to the end of the second term from the Klamer side. I'm suspending for ten minutes, and then we're gonna listen to the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u261	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the valuable words that many Members of Parliament have said to the people who are very busy with these arrangements. For the sake of clarity, I shall move quickly on to the motions that my colleagues and I have divided. Mr Van Haga's question is still open, and I will come to it later. First of all, the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It invites the Government to allow for a faster opening of the Supplementary Meeting Events. I have already indicated that I hope to be able to start in January. Faster than January isn't gonna work. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The motion in part No. 426 also belongs to Mr Graus and calls on the government to lower the turnover threshold and to proceed with a monthly fee. I have already indicated that this is not technically possible and that I think lowering the loss threshold is unwise, because it will also offer unintended compensation. The motion in part No. 426 I advise. For the same reason I also advise against the motion in part No. 427. It also calls for a reduction in the turnover threshold. The next motion on my property is the motion in part No. 429. It deals with the generous turnover loss scheme. I have indicated to the Chamber that I will return to it in the short term, because we now have a coincidence between NOW and TVL for the fourth quarter. That raises the question of how to take other measures. Since the motion calls for an early return, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, but the precise interpretation will be reflected in the letter. Then I'm going to move on to the motion to part No. 432. It deals with the position of entrepreneurs, whether they are pregnant or sick. There is a serious disease in the current poignant regime. We'll keep doing that. Pregnancy is a very happy condition and can be overcome in many cases, because there is a possibility to choose quarters in the TVL. However, it may indeed be that part of maternity leave overlaps just two quarters and therefore the choice does not give any room for manoeuvre. For this, I would be happy to look at it together with the SZW colleague. I would also like to stick to the criterion of'serious disease', because it is applicable in the hardness regime. The broader concept of "sickness" is not easily defined. With this explanation, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u263	It's about the motion in part No. 432. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u264	I also understand why it doesn't apply if you have a cold for a week, but what is "serious illness"? Does this mean you can't work for a few months or you're at least two thirds disabled? There is no doubt that there are standards for this. I want to be able to make a bit of a show.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u265	I hope you'll forgive me for not being able to say that. I know it's being applied now. My message is that this will not be changed. The addition that came from different sides is pregnancy. I understand, because it can run over the quarter. For that, Mr Wiersma and I take it upon ourselves to come up with an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u266	So the motion in part No. 432 gets judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u267	Yes. Then I'll take a leap to the motion in part number. 438 by Mr Van Haga. It invites the government to come up with a long-term perspective. I have indicated that the government will come with a letter. I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgment. Mr Van Haga had also asked a question which I would answer in the second term. He pointed out that a 60% interest in foreign hands would not give entitlement to the use of NOW and TVL. That wasn't known to us by questioning. The company that Mr Van Haga has in mind may not receive a TVL, but that may also be for another reason. We do not know this criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u268	Still, to be quite clear, is the majority shareholding of a foreign shareholder preventing the right to the NOW or the TVL? That is what I hear from my constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u269	No. There may be a refusal, but that is because of another criterion. There are more criteria. Moreover, there must be a real presence in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u270	That was the motion in part No. 438.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u271	Yeah, and this was still an open question. Then the motion to part No. 439 by Mr Aartsen and others. It invites the government to come up with a separate TVL start-up scheme for all entrepreneurs registered between 1 July 2020 and 30 September 2021. I have indicated that I am prepared to investigate this seriously and to come back to the Chamber on this matter. I really need to take a swing at the arm. I have outlined the major implementation questions to you. If I investigate that, it's to see if it's possible. If I can explain the motion in such a way that I'm seriously investigating this, I can give her judgment Chamber. If a firm commitment is already being asked for, I cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u272	In my opinion, we had a rather solid conversation between the Chamber and the Cabinet in the first term. I'm gonna try to see if we can get somewhere. I would like to go along with the explanation of an investigation, but I would like to have one guarantee from the cabinet, namely that that investigation cannot show that these people do not receive any kind of support. I'm sorry about that. In my view, the starting point of the Chamber was that the group of people as appointed in the motion would receive some support. I understand that we need to look at what form that should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u273	I find that vulnerable. Sometimes it's no different than I have to dissuade myself. That is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u274	The motion in part No. 439 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u275	Then the motion to part No. 440, also from Mr Aartsen with others, who invites the government to come forward with an additional implementation plan to improve the implementation of the aid packages and make them top priority. I have listened with appreciation to the extensive explanation given by Mr Aartsen, but nevertheless: we should not talk to each other about an arrangement which, by its nature, is too complex, or where we are legally very often faced with the principle of equality, so that the customisation that we all want is ultimately not feasible. It is often possible for companies to do good, but not for the government. We shouldn't tell each other that customization is possible suddenly when you have an implementation plan. Sometimes things can't. We have to be honest about that. It's very sad, but I can't. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u276	That's about the motion in part No. 440. It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u277	Yes. Moreover, this does not detract from the fact that we will continue to look seriously at where improvements are possible. I've already outlined how we've deployed significantly more capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u278	The Minister may have seen that I am not under this motion, but I understand the petitioners' appeal very well. We have also discussed this in this debate. The question is how we will look at Corona in the future and how we will ensure that entrepreneurs can continue to be helped by the implementing agencies. That's where it's pinching. A majority in the Chamber agrees on that. I understand you're saying from your position that there's nothing you can do with that right now. However, I would like to ask again how you intend to look at these implementing bodies, with the possibility that we will still be debating this with each other in a year or two. Then perhaps it will also have to be about aid in a more limited form: not as rude as it is now, but just with customization. We need the implementing bodies to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u279	I'm going a long way with Mr. De Jong. I also added that I will continue to work with the implementation organisations to see how we can do it better, more focused and faster. That was a relevant point for me. Here the word "suitable" fell again. From everything that we have learned, not specifically in this area, but from large government schemes that have started with good intentions, I think the great lesson is that we sometimes have to observe that regulations cannot. A lot can be done. Once again, you also said: in addition to the suffering that exists in the entrepreneurial world, there has also been a lot of appreciation and a lot of success. I recognize that, too. But I really don't want to suggest that you can make the impossible possible with an extra implementation plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u280	I'm gonna challenge the Cabinet to come up with that. There is always reference to customization, but that is not what is asked here. The cabinet decides to say in July, on a Friday evening, that your event will not take place on Saturday. You've paid for a stage, you've paid for a few pots of beer, et cetera et cetera. That is what the cabinet says in a press conference on Friday: you will be reimbursed. That's a generic scheme, for a very compact number of events. And then these entrepreneurs will have to wait more than six months, without having a specific date at all when the scheme opens up at all. Before you know it, you'll be more than a year before the money is in the account of often small organizations. That doesn't have anything to do with customization, does it? Surely that has to do with the fact that something is not entirely working out in the execution and that we must do it right? That is where I think we are pulling the same string.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u281	I would like to cast the picture far from me that there is now a massive year waiting. Those examples are there. I have also indicated that 96% is granted on time and quickly. Of course it's the others who ring the bell with you and me. I really think that you should ask the cabinet and implementing organisations to do their utmost, stay sharp and keep learning. But we also have to be honest about the fact that not everything is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr Aartsen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u283	We have discussed this issue many times. The cabinet responds each time: this arrangement takes so long because there is too little capacity for implementation. Then I don't think the solution is to say: sorry, it can't be. No, then the solution is that there needs to be more implementation capacity. I really challenge the cabinet to come up with a great plan to solve these implementation problems, including for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u284	Clear. The verdict on the motion remains: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u285	Society is not entirely feasible, not even in the form of aid schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u286	That was about the motion in part No. 440.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u287	Then the motion to part No. 441, by Mr Van Kent. This motion invites the government to continue the existing guarantee fund for events at least until the third quarter of 2022. I would ask Mr Van Kent to hold this motion. I have already indicated that we will soon consider what we are going to do next year. At this point, I should be dissuading the motion. I am not necessarily saying that it is not going to happen, but the motion is just too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u288	I'm looking at Mr. Van Kent. The request is to hold the motion, if you are prepared to do so. Otherwise the motion gets the verdict: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u289	It's a very good proposal, a very good idea. I didn't hear why the motion should be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u290	Right now, I'm deceiving the motion. If the motion comes a little later, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u291	It has to do with the time factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u292	All the motions that have been tabled, and I believe that there are 4,000 people who have a high degree of genius, including this one. But still the timing matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u293	The factor time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u294	I was gonna say this motion jumps out under those 4,000 motions, but still...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u295	So the question is whether you'd like to hold the motion. Then you have a greater chance that the motion may at some other time get the verdict Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u296	We're overloaded with compliments, but you always have to be careful. I understand that the cabinet will be discussing shortly and that the motion will come too soon. But the vote on the motion will not take place until next week. So I'm gonna wait till Monday what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u297	Okay. But then the motion gets to part no. 441 for now the judgment: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u298	Yes. It's no different. In the motion in part No. 444, by Mr Amhaouch, the government is invited to talk to the EUREGIO. I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgment. Also the motion in part No. 445, also by Mr Amhaouch, on consultation with the carnival sector, I should like to leave it to the House to decide. The motion in part No. 446, tabled by Mr Van Baarle, on consultation with insurance and leasing companies in the taxi sector, I would also like to leave it to the House to decide. Mr President, these were the motions in my area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u299	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Secretary of State Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u300	Mr President, thank you for leading this sitting. Thank you also to the Members of the Chamber for the debate. I always hope that this is the last debate on support, but unfortunately I know that if there is any need for support, we should be there. Maybe we'll have to be there for a while. Stef Blok has already said something about everything about pregnancy. Mr Vijlbrief comes back to everything about the safety net. Then I will stick to Mr Van Kent's question on bonuses. Then I'll come to the eight motions. The bonus and dividend ban, as we just discussed in the debate, is the same in NOW 5 as the NOW 4. You could say that employers applying for NOW should not pay bonuses and dividends for the year 2021, because that is the year in which the NOW 5 falls. In addition, employers who receive more than €125,000 grant will continue to have an obligation to discuss bonus and dividend policies with employees' representatives. This will facilitate the discussion of bonuses for foreign parent companies that have not applied for NOW. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 428 by Mr Graus on the Tozo. The opening up of the Tozo to the cabinet is not obvious. We've talked about that in congregations, the VNG and Divosa. They also do not consider this desirable and necessary, rather counterproductive, because they put a lot of work into reorientation and at the same time want to offer that safety net; they can do that now, with the Bbz. With that, I would like to discourage this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 430 on the search time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u301	Mrs Maatoug has a very brief question on the motion on item No. 428.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u302	I have a point. We are getting other signals about the feasibility of such a Tozo from several GroenLinks aldermen, but also from other aldermen, for the sake of clarity, should the cabinet decide to do so, for example, if this is necessary because there is another huge lockdown. Let me say this in order as political groups to be able to weigh up the information on what is and is not possible. So we're getting different signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u303	The signals we get are that it leads to implementation problems if you were to use the Tozo again, which is why it makes more sense to talk about the customized Bbz.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u304	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u305	I do speak with the VNG on a regular basis. I must say that in the discussions I have, the majority is also from GroenLinks. So we both got different signals; that's interesting. We need to talk about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 430 on the search time. The motion calls on the government to abolish that deadline for young people up to 27 years of age, or rather to extend the decision. The temporary exception to that search period and the legal basis for extending that measure by royal decree have now expired, as I have just indicated. So if you were to take that measure again, it would require a new legislative change. In addition, application is already possible at four weeks; that is the search time. We encourage that, too. You can do that in the Participation Act. The municipality can also make an individual assessment. The aid and recovery package contains additional resources. We have also taken an approach to youth unemployment. Local authorities already have more opportunities for this, because of course we want to help these young people to get a job. With that, I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 431 calls on the government to open the TONK safety net system by means of funds. The cabinet has previously made 260 million available. A number of municipalities still offer support. Municipalities received additional funds for debt and special assistance for 2021 and 2022. Municipalities also have emergency funds and tailor-made offices. They're open to people who need it. Given these instruments and the money that may be available to some municipalities, the Cabinet now sees no reason to do so. But we will remain in consultation with VNG, Divosa and municipalities to see if this will remain sustainable. That's why I have to discourage this motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u306	That applies to the motion in part No. 431.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u307	Yes. Then I come to the motion on part No. 436 over the percentage NOW. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. This would compensate the NOW for more costs than actual wage costs. We also have a 15% wage exemption and a 40% premium for the other employers' costs. This overcompensation constitutes State aid. I think it would be unwise, by the way. The motion was therefore dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 437 over dga's. We've been through this before. Mr Van Haga has also asked for it more often. The conclusion is that a dga that is not about his own appointment, which can also be dismissed, may qualify for NOW, i.e. if that dga sv-wage is in the policy administration. For other dgas, this is not feasible, because they are not in the policy administration and therefore there is no wage bill available for UWV. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 442 of the SP over a Tozo but without a partner test. Actually, I've already said something about that. We're holding a finger on the wrist, but we've got the Bbz for that right now. I would also like to stress that for self-employed people the safety net is to help them through this difficult time. We're not opening it up to them for nothing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u308	The motion in part No. 442 is therefore discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u309	Yes. Then I come to the motion on part No. 443 on consultation with the social partners. The cabinet attaches great importance to the involvement of social partners and other stakeholders. During the corona crisis we also kept in close contact with them. We will continue to do so, both for the short term and certainly for the long term. On 26 November, just before the press conference, the two sides of industry put their hands together to engage in long-term consultations. The cabinet took that hand, including in the press conference. That is why we see this motion as a support for policy and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. Finally, Mr President, the motion on item No. 447. This concerns the extension of the extended rules for the PPS for the first quarter of 2022. The Bbz has been temporarily simplified to make the transition from the Tozo to the Bbz more feasible for municipalities and applies until 1 January 2022.As of 1 January 2022, the switch to the regular Bbz will be made. I would like to say that there is good support for entrepreneurs in the mainstream, but I understand the concerns of the Chamber about the entrepreneurs affected by the new package of measures. We cannot anticipate the corona measures at this point, because we do not know what measures we will be taking in January, nor what measures might be appropriate for entrepreneurs. This will be clarified on 14 December, I say to Mr Grinwis. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that, in the run-up to 14 December, we examine and develop various options, including the extension of the simplified Bbz, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. On 14 December, the cabinet will then consider whether there will be additional support for entrepreneurs and what that package looks like. With that interpretation, I give the motion judgment Chamber, or else I request that it be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u310	I see the two proposers nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u311	Thank you. That's it for me, Mr. Chairman. I shall then give the floor to Mr Filipino.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are four motions for me to pass on the judgment of the cabinet. Those are the motions on the items Nos. 433, 434, 435 and 448. At the risk of me messing things up, I'm going to deal with two motions together. Those are the motions on the items Nos. 433 and 448, because they're a bit alike. The motion in part No. 448 by Mrs Maatoug is actually a little more precise than the motion in part No. 433 by Mr Nijboer. At first, I want to discourage them, but I am going to say something, because we are already doing a lot for culture. The cabinet is also, according to Mr Aartsen's input, rather afraid to do more for one sector. Then we'll have all kinds of hare-over effects. But I come with one but: I found that Mrs Maatoug had a fairly convincing story about the passing on of that support at the bottom of the sector. So here's what I'd like to ask you. Give the Minister of OCW and I a chance to have contact and talk to the sector. There is also a letter from the Minister of OCW which states what her response to this problem is. There's also a first quarter coming. So here's what I'd like to ask you. If you want the judgment now, the judgment is dissuaded. If the two Members make the motions on items Nos. If 433 and 448 would like to continue until that letter arrives, then so is the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u313	And when can we expect that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u314	Well, the room's almost recessing. The Minister of OCW is not here. But I think that should be before Christmas, before the end of this period. Otherwise, it won't do much good to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u315	Mrs Maatoug and Mr Nijboer, before the recess, so that is very soon. The two proposers are still thinking about it. Then the judgment will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u316	I was wondering when that letter would come, because we don't have that much time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u317	Next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u318	I will contact my colleague from OCW and try to make sure that that letter is there next week. It'll help the room. Otherwise, in the light of all kinds of other things, such as a new press conference, it may become somewhat outdated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u319	Then, as far as I'm concerned, we'll hold both motions until Thursday. So we're not voting Tuesday, we're voting Thursday. Then we have the letter, so we can just vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u320	We're about to. This applies to motions on items Nos. 433 and 448. They're being held pending the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u321	Sure. But I will say again to the two proposers that they are still at risk of being discouraged. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna continue with the motion on part number one. 434. That is Mr De Jong's motion to supplement the loan facility if necessary for the first quarter. The same applies to culture. We have to wait and see what the first quarter brings, but this motion has been formulated so smoothly that we can give Chamber judgment. Finally, the motion in part No. 435 by Mr Van Haga. That motion calls for recovery interest to be kept at 0.01% until 1 January 2024. I think that's a very unwise proposal. In fact, the cabinet has given a lot of thought to the stalemate with interest. We are putting it off for another six months to start raising, I say to Mr Van Haga. But I think Mr Van Haga also knows better than anyone that incentives are important to make people pay back. We're going to raise that interest very slowly, until January 1st, 2024. That's what we do with a percent per six months. This means that interest is still well below the interest you have to pay on your personal loan. So I think the cabinet has exactly the right balance. That could be different next month if we're in a different situation. But for now, the cabinet has the right balance between incentive and aid. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u322	So the motion in part No. 435 will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u323	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u324	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u325	That concludes this debate. I thank my colleagues. I would also like to thank the three directors present in this debate.
