ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on corona. I'd like to ask the spokesmen to take their place again. There were two more interruptions that I agreed to for suspension. I shall first look at Mrs Van Esch and then Mrs Van den Berg. I think it is right that we should then give the Minister a chance to prosecute his story again. But first of all, Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it feels like switching again for everyone, I also notice myself. But let us return to the debate on the coronapas and the vaccination urge, which, as far as we are concerned, is indeed in it. I'm still a little bit in dubio about the answer I just got from the Prime Minister. If he says "the coronapas is not a vaccination urge," and yet I see that the advice of the Health Council calls for something else, or at least indicates something else, then I think: one of the two can only be right. So where are we? I'd like an answer to that. In my view, this is one of the ethical discussions that we have not yet had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, perhaps I should point out that it is also uncomfortable to proceed to the order of the debate after the step that Mr Kaag has just taken. I think we have to. We don't have a lot of other choices either. We must, of course, continue this debate, but let me at least say here that I have great respect for the step taken by Mr Kaag. You all had a very intense debate yesterday. I have great respect for the step taken by Mr Kaag in this regard. Then we do have to switch for a while. Look, words like "exercise," "exercise," "obligatory," "directly required" and "indirectly required"; they are all used interchangeably. At the time, when we were going to make that bill on the corona tickets, we did indeed ask the Health Council for an opinion on a motion by Gert-Jan Segers. We actually had this debate together in December, I believe. Then Gert-Jan Segers said: perhaps it would be wise to ask the Health Council what is actually allowed here and not. The Health Council has indicated a whole set of rules and arguments and has given a definition of what they see as an urge. They also say that we do believe that this is justified in a particular situation. If it is the less radical measure compared to what else you should do to protect vulnerable people, then we think that is justified. That's what the Health Council says. I myself have never used these words "exercise" and "force." I have always talked about 'obligatory' and 'direct obligation' and 'indirect obligation', which we have said: we are not going to do. And why didn't I use that word "need"? Because I think that urges are given far too many different meanings. I have acknowledged, however, that there can of course be some incentive for the use of corona tickets. That's right. You can also see abroad that such a ticket has that effect. And if you look at the past few days, you will indeed see that some more appointments have been made at the GGD. But the primary purpose of using corona tickets is not to increase the vaccination rate. We need to be straight about that. The primary goal is: to make it possible to be together in larger groups, where vaccinees and non-vaccines simply come back together, within those 1.5 meters, and in the meantime the spread, slow down the acceleration of that spread. The latter must, as the OMT says, because otherwise there are too many risks involved. It is therefore very strongly an opinion of the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	This minister is known for his very long answers, but I would like to go back. I just have the quote here. The Minister himself said: "there can be no compulsion and urge" and "rewards to have you vaccinated are not at issue." Those are the words. That's what I'm quoting. These are words that have been spoken by this Minister. If the Health Council indicates that the corona pass is indeed a form of vaccination coercion, then I think it would be justified to admit it. You say it's not the primary target. Those are your words. I don't believe that. I think it is. But even so, I think we have to admit together that it is a vaccination urge. The Health Board will report it. You state yourself: I do not want it. But this is a form of vaccination urge. And I really miss those words in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	I can only express my own words as I said them and as I meant them and give the meaning to the words as I do myself. I find it complicated when you read all kinds of other things in it. The purpose of applying those corona access cards............................................................................................................................................................................................. The first is: if you get back together in larger groups, and that's what you're gonna do when you let go of that 1.5 meters, and we all want to let go of that. That is not such a problem for the vaccinated people at all, but for the non-vaccine one it is. Because that could give a huge acceleration of the spread of the virus. As a result, too many people become ill too quickly, resulting in inaccessible care. Who's that a problem for? For people who need care. That's the first goal. Two: you also want people who are vulnerable to go back into larger groups. They often don't dare now. They don't go to the movies or the theater, they don't go to a full restaurant, because they think: then I get in touch with people I don't know if I'm going to go home with that virus under my arm. Also to give vulnerable people the opportunity to enter large groups, we have those corona tickets. Anyone who says "twin"? No, I don't think so. Precisely that it is justified to let vulnerable people and non-vulnerable people, vaccinated and unvaccinated people be together, is the purpose of those corona tickets. Yeah, but the effect could be more people getting vaccinated, right? It's possible. That's a nice side effect. I'm not running away from that at all. That's nice, very nice even, but that's not the primary goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you. I would also like to thank Mrs Van Esch for her words. It's gonna be a bit of a shift for me, too. I'm sitting on the chair of: we'll continue the corona debate. But I appreciate you making it, too. I give the floor to Mrs van den Berg of the CDA for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that there are 114 locations and 6 XL locations. Now I think we have over 350 municipalities in this country, some of which are very long in kilometres. In the debate on 14 July, the CDA called not only for mobile vaccination buses but also for mobile test buses, precisely to facilitate people so that they do not have to travel kilometres. I haven't heard from the Minister yet, so I'd like to hear an update on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	It's a fair question. With the new test capacity mobile test streets, i.e. buses, have also been tendered. They're part of the game. There are now 106 locations plus 6 XL locations. But we've learned from how it worked with testing for your journey. If you make an Open House tender of that, saying in advance "this is the fixed price, if you can do it for that, you can participate," you can just participate as a provider. Then you have to meet a number of conditions to get connected to that app. This has had the effect of testing for your journey that up to 800 locations have been created, with the test infrastructure for travel being much more finer than the test infrastructure for access. That's why we said this is okay for now. With a capacity of 400,000 tests per day, that's a lot if you stretch a little bit. That's at the top of the assessment. But even more beautiful would be if we were indeed working towards more locations. Hence this tender. Hence the expectation that supply and demand will come into balance and thus create more locations, as well as those mobile locations. They are also needed to make multi-day festivals easily possible again. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to move on. We have now discussed the ethical dilemmas surrounding the application of the corona tickets as access. I would like to take the step towards these other ethical dilemmas: what can and should not be done in the workplace? We have done good research which are exactly the legal aspects that you should look at and which you should not go over. Here's the deal. As an employer, you can just ask the question. It is often said that you should be very reluctant as an employer. No, you can just ask the question. But an employee has the right not to answer that question. And why is that? You could see the vaccination status as medical and as an employee you are not obliged to share your medical status with your employer. There are many reasons for this, particularly in the field of labour law. We want to keep it that way. We do not want to go as far as Italy, for example, where people in health care and education are subject to vaccination and are otherwise fired. That would really be an indirect vaccination obligation. For example, the salary will not be paid. We do not want to get into that at all. But the discussion about vaccination in the workplace is of course relevant, because of the safety of colleagues and in the care also very strong the safety of patients. The degree of vaccination in the care is variable. The impression is that he's very high in hospitals. We don't know, because we don't register it, but based on what we hear, our impression is that he's very high in hospitals. In nursing homes, in disability care and in ggz he is variable. In many sectors, it is therefore variable. Why is vaccination rate important? An employer who wants to be able to make a schedule needs to know which team he puts in a department with people who are very vulnerable. If you have to make a schedule like this, you'd like to know about the vaccination rate. If the vaccination rate is too low, then you have to take all kinds of measures with personal protective equipment. What can already be done is that based on an inventory by the company doctor or by an external party, you have an assessment of how high the vaccination rate is for the entire institution at staff level or at team level. A number of employers have indicated that this does not work well enough for me. Not all of them. I need to be tight and straight in there. In the oncology department, for example, or in a nursing home, people say: I really need to know about an employee, otherwise I think the risk is too great and, given the Wkkgz, I have to take other measures. That employer should also be able to ensure the safety of the patients entrusted to him. It is therefore said: now give us the opportunity to register that vaccination status. There's resistance to that, too. I have to be honest about that, too. I would like to explore the way in which we can shape that, so that we do justice to the concerns about it, but give the employer the opportunity to do what is necessary. This could also provide a solution to what VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands advocate, namely the possibility of asking for corona access tickets at all. Corona tickets are also seen as a registration. It is a processing of personal data and according to the GDPR it is a registration. However, those corona tickets do not make it clear to the person who checks them whether someone has been vaccinated or tested at all. In short, this could be a good solution for the care and for those who are concerned that vaccination status is already giving up too much of the medical record. We are going to do these two explorations: how we can register the vaccination status in the care and whether and how we can make the use of corona access tickets possible at all in a working situation. I would like to emphasise two things. It's "or" and "how" in the work situation. Because I don't know if we should go that way yet. I really want to be able to explore that. And if we want to do that, it will require a change of law and I'll come back with the argument why. If we don't have to, we won't. That's one. Two. It's not gonna be a duty to care. There is also no obligation to register. I've heard that word a number of times, but it won't be. It would at best provide a registration option in situations where there is no other possibility of knowing the vaccination status sufficiently. Then some more practical things. Several questions have been asked about this by Mrs Den Haan and Mrs Kuik, among others. Suppose people are digitally less skilled, how do they get their QR code? We've come up with a few things for that. If people don't have a smartphone, then a QR code can just be printed. How? Coronacheck.nl/print shows how to do that. But what if you don't have a computer or a printer? For this we have help lines available through, for example, libraries. Let's say you don't have a computer, you're in bad shape, and you have to go all the way to the library, and you don't get it right. Then you probably have a phone and you can call 0800 1351 and ask to get your corona receipt sent home by mail. It'll be sent home. A lot of people have already taken advantage of that. This can only be done with vaccination and recovery certificates and, of course, not with test certificates, because then the validity period is already over. A lot of research has also been done on accessibility and user-friendliness. Via Steffie there is also a very accessible explanation about the functioning of the coronacheck. We are still working on all kinds of issues that lead to a threshold reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	There is another question from Mrs Westerveld. It wasn't there. It wasn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just went over the card of the current places where you can test for access. That's 110 in the Netherlands. For example, on some of our islands you can't even test. In large parts of the Netherlands, for example the Achterhoek, where I come from, you can only test in a few municipalities. And then the Minister says: the test capacity is likely to be increased and thus accessible. What's he basing that on? What is there for a commercial provider to pick up on one of our islands or, for example, in the Achterhoek? In a municipality like Woerden there is currently no test location. So very large parts of the Netherlands are already not easily accessible. I sincerely wonder how we are going to make sure that the testing becomes accessible and that it is really easy for people to go to a test site in the vicinity if it is now so far away from them for so many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	First of all, what is there to get for a test provider to set up test capacity? That's the number of people tested. We set an amount in the tender with each other. We assume that this will give entrepreneurs the opportunity to set up test capacity. Why do we think that? We actually saw that when testing for your trip. When testing for your trip it was of course also unclear how big the group would be. However, a lot of entrepreneurs have signed up to this. I believe that this ultimately led to 800 locations. Mrs Westerveld is right. Are we sure this will lead to such a fine-meshed network? No, we don't know that for sure, but we don't even know for sure how big that market is. In her term, I believe that Mrs Kuik said: some of the people will have to deal with corona tickets, but if you don't go to the café, don't go to the restaurant, don't go to the cinema, don't go to the Kuip, and don't go to another place where you need that corona ticket, and that's pretty much true for some of the people in the old neighbourhoods. So also for people who have not been vaccinated, it is very doubtful whether they will all and masse use the test for access. In short, we don't quite know what the question is. The estimate now is that it will be up to 400,000 a day. We can handle that capacity. But there is a certain mismatch in the region, and you are right about that. That's what we want to solve. That's what we do with the Open House construction. In doing so, demand and supply in a region will be balanced. In addition, at Mrs Van den Berg's request, we also tendered mobile test capacity some time ago. This mobile test capacity could be used in places where the market does not automatically fill that gap. Of course you can. You can have some kind of market failure, if there's too little business, so there's no testing location there. Then we're gonna have to jump in a little extra. That has to be a bit of an expression in practice. But you are right: we are not quite sure, but we are going to work to put that as finely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	We have, of course, had this discussion about the test sites before. We talked about Zeeland-Flanders. The BoerCitizen Movement has mentioned the Wadden Islands. It's not like if you go to a catering store on one of the Wadden Islands, you can just as easily get tested on shore. The vaccination rate is high, but there are also quite a lot of tourists coming. I hope they keep coming, too. It has to be arranged that there is also a test possibility at those kind of locations, where there really is no alternative, not even at 5 or 10 kilometers? That may not have to be done through this construction, but I would like to call on the Minister to make it possible for a different variant in these regions, otherwise the catering industry will have a real problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	I understand that very well. When we dealt with the law at the time, you agreed to that law because those tests could be used as an alternative to vaccination. If testing is too inaccessible, it is an alternative that cannot be considered to be equivalent as a ticket. I think that's the point Mrs Westerveld made for dinner break. That is why I understand what Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van den Berg are asking for. If you extend the test capacity further through the Open House procurement, you hope that supply and demand will be better balanced. It's hard to estimate that now. But if there are white spots, then we will have to take an extra step to see if testing capacity can be added where the market fails. There is, of course, a limit in efficiency, because it can also be very expensive, for example if you have to place an entire location on the Wadden Islands for the very last test. So there's a limit to it. I think it is right to ask whether we should keep our finger on the pulse there and whether we should look after the first weekend at how big the demand is, how large the supply is and how these things can be brought closer together. Mr. Chairman. Then some more practical things. I had already started answering the questions about the people who were less digitally skilled. Mrs De Vries added: there are also groups that are still struggling to get the QR codes. I believe that written questions have also been asked by De Vries and Paternotte. Of course, we will answer these questions neatly. In fact, an exception route has been made for each group. For one group, we need to make it easier in the near future, namely the group that has had one prick in another EU country than the Netherlands and the other prick in the Netherlands. That's one of the hardest groups to bring together. Of course, we also want to think of a good route for those groups. By the way, all the technical complexity that was present for some of the groups has now at least been provided with a workable exemption route. Mrs Den Haan asks: can the people who are not so digitally skilled also go to the GP? I don't really want to do that to the general practitioners. If the people who have been pricked by the GP have a problem with their registration, they can contact the GP. He then has a website for that to allow one-on-one that corona admission ticket. If people are not digitally skilled, they have the possibility to get a printed version via coronacheck.nl/print. If they don't have a printer or a computer, they can go to the library for example. We also have a number of other guides. In addition, they can call 0800-1351. Mrs Westerveld asks: how is people who cannot be vaccinated and who cannot be tested? I thought that's what Mrs Bikker asked for. By the way, this is a very small group. In fact, I think we've seen a few cases come along, but we have to deal with that. There are at most a few thousand people who cannot be vaccinated. Those are very special allergies. We are trying to reduce that group by looking with allergologists at the extra possibilities in the guidance and in helping to get vaccinated. Most of these people can just get tested. So there are hardly any examples of people who can neither be vaccinated nor can be tested. In the end, on the basis of such a self-declaration, we should offer a separate possibility for a medical examination at the GGD. It is also necessary to consider how it is possible to enter safely into a group. So that too is something we still have to resolve. So that was also an answer to Mrs Bikker's question. Mrs Van der Plas van de BoerBurgerBeweging asks: "Equal cases must also be treated equally. Also vaccinated persons may be contagious, but do not need to be tested. They can infect unvaccinated people in a cafe, can't they?" That's true. That is why the OMT says, for example, that the current design of the corona tickets should not be done in a discotheque-like setting, so in a real high-risk setting. Those corona tickets may reduce the risk of infection, but they do not remove it. The odds aren't zero. It is true that vaccinees, when they are inside, are much less likely to walk out with the virus than the people who come in tested. That's true. There really is a difference in the extent to which that results in safety. That gives some experts reason to say: you should actually test everyone. However, I do not think that this is very proportional to the group of 85% that has been vaccinated and that virus can, of course, still transmit, but actually to a much lesser extent, which can become ill, but to a much milder extent. In any case, it has been shown quite clearly that as a vaccinee you play a much less important role in the spread.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you. That raises a question with Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	That's right, that raises a question. Suppose the coronapas is adopted, is the Minister prepared to have an investigation into how many infections occur in cases where people have had vaccination and have not been tested, and in cases where people have not had vaccination and have been tested? Is the Minister prepared to keep an accurate record of how many infections occur on the occasions where the pass is to be shown? I can't wait to see what happens next.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yeah, I get that. That is a very fair question. We will know that by means of the cluster analyses that you then get at the GGD, because of course we ask everyone with complaints to be tested. Also vaccinated people should simply be tested if they have any complaints. The question is as follows. Most people who have been vaccinated will no longer develop symptoms if they carry the virus, or so light that they do not actually notice it themselves as being complaints. So the question is whether you get a balanced picture of the result from the test street. So I will look into whether there is any need for additional research, because you are absolutely right that you want to know of course. The OMT's estimate now is that the probability that a tested person will walk out with that virus after a busy setting, with a mix et cetera, is twice as high as the risk for a vaccinated person. Anyway, a vaccinee won't be bothered to walk out of the cafe with that virus. Also, the tested person is of course much more likely to get sick of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yeah, I get all the reasoning. Still, it's crooked. I hear in the words of the outgoing minister that he also finds a certain crookedness in it. I hope I draw that conclusion well, otherwise I'll hear it. But I would also appreciate it if the outgoing minister could perhaps explain it to the people of the Netherlands a little better. I like to base myself on figures and facts. There is just a lot of confusion and incomprehension about this particular point among people who have been vaccinated, and among people who have not been vaccinated. I always know: unknown makes unloved. If you give people knowledge about something, you increase the basis for it. It would therefore be nice if communication could clearly explain how and why. What people think after that, it's up to them. But I do not think that communication on this issue has been very clear so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	Okay. Then let me take your chance to answer at least two points. The first point is that there is often incomprehension: yes, also vaccinated people can certainly contribute to the spread of that virus? That's right. That's right. It is true that vaccinated people contribute much less to the spread of that virus. So that's the first element. That's really a lot less. The second element is: if you let those people be together after they've all had to show off those corona tickets, some of the people because they've been vaccinated and some of the people because they've been tested, then inside they can still just pass that virus on to each other? That's right. However, the risk of this is much smaller with the use of corona tickets. That makes us say: now that we are going to let go of the 1.5 metres, it is safe to use this for a moment in the final phase of the crisis. Especially for people who are vulnerable, who are afraid to go back to the cinema or to the theatre, just for them, it is of course a blessing, because they can get back on the road, where they are normally very reluctant. I think we are all very pleased with the abolition of the 1.5 metres, but I know that there are very large groups that are actually very exciting. "I actually think it's a little early." "What's next in the super?" "What if I wanted to go to the cafe or something?" "I don't really dare yet." Those people are more likely to go through that corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	Two short things. That's not what I think about the five-foot thing. When the 1.5 meters are abolished, someone can always think, "You know, I don't care about the Minister De Jonge. I'm just gonna keep a foot and a half. I'm just gonna follow someone for five feet." You're not obliged to stand at less than five feet with anyone. The corona pass, on the other hand, is mandatory. So I think that equation is a bit of a limp. My second point is that, of course, the risk is lower. That's what the numbers show. Anyway, I've always learned that a little pregnant is also pregnant. And the consequences are pretty big.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	That's for sure. What is the common thread at the locations where the corona evidence will be required? They're just places where you can't easily choose whether you want to keep your distance. An example is a cinema room. Of course, it's hard to separate those chairs a little further, isn't it? They're just screwed into the ground. Of course, there's nothing you can do about it in a full room. So is the theater. This is also true in a café, because it is not so easy to maintain the 1.5 meters, unless it is very quiet of course. In the supermarket you can take a step back a bit easier. In the legal process, we have looked very clearly at which sectors it is allowed to do so and in which sectors it is not allowed to do so. This is mainly about whether they are places where you also have the choice not to go. That was actually the first way to look at it. Furthermore, they are places where you have a chance of large groups coming together, where it is not so easy to maintain those 1.5 meters. That is how the delineation was achieved in the law. That's basically the logic. The second is that "a little pregnant" is true of course. You can't be a little pregnant, but you can be a little contagious by the way. Well, you can, because you're just a lot less contagious when you're vaccinated. The chances of being contagious are already smaller, but the duration of being contagious is also smaller when you are vaccinated. Being pregnant and contagious are therefore not entirely comparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	We're gonna hear from Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	It's becoming a biology class.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	Tell us, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	Luckily, I already have mature children, so it won't happen to me that I'm having babies. Of course, ifs and buts are always there. But whether you're vaccinated or unvaccined and whether it's all very low or very small: people can always infect people and then these people can get very sick. That's my point. We do not have to discuss this all evening, because we also have a roll-call vote this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	That's exactly the point. That is the point and that is why the OMT also says: it is not possible in all settings yet. In high-risk settings, you shouldn't do it for a while. That brings me to something else, also a complicated point, namely 2G. When the law was passed, we said very clearly to each other: why do we want to test it? We want to test that because testing is an alternative to vaccination. This allows you to set 3G policy within the contours that the Chamber had issued, namely tested, cured or vaccinated. All three give the same access to a setting in which you apply those corona tickets. Mr Paternotte mentioned it as 2G, but the OMT also explicitly mentions 2G as something to consider. When I look at ourselves, the cabinet, we say: we would rather not do that. Actually, we would rather not, because it does make a distinction in access to a location as a discotheque for people who have not been vaccinated. It certainly raises a threshold. Well, then you do get into the situation of urge, and you'd rather not. But can you completely rule out that you need it? Not quite. Let us be clear that it is not allowed under the current law. So if we're gonna make it possible, we're gonna have to come to the Chamber with a law amendment. That may be reassuring, because if you really don't want it, it's just not gonna happen. But the consequence may be that discotheques should stay closed longer. That is the consequence. The question is whether we should choose the option of 2G when we are a month or a month and a half further and we should make that weighting. Do we think it is justified to keep a part of the catering industry and part of the events still close? That can, of course, be a real weighting at some point in time. I can't foresee that right now. I can't predict that now either, but I can tell you now that I'd rather not. That's the office's position, but I can't rule it out in the future either. I think that's why we have to think it through. Maybe at a quiet moment we should discuss how to actually look at that. But that does not fall within the scope of tonight's debate, I would think. So we'll have to come back to that in the next few weeks. Then I have a number of other questions to answer. Mr Stoffer says that clinical research into antivirals is already at an advanced stage. Does the cabinet choose to buy these in? Oh, yeah. The Netherlands participates in several European joint procurement routes of antivirals. We have already bought a product through this procedure, namely Roche's antibody product. If there are more resources available, we will certainly want to buy them. By the way, Mr Stoffer brought this a bit as an alternative to the introduction of corona tickets, or as an alternative to taking measures at all, or as an alternative to vaccination. That's it, I'm afraid, isn't it. However, it is possible, or might be possible, to treat some of the patients with it in part of the disease process. But as an alternative, I don't think you can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	Sometimes you just have to straighten something out of what you've radiated yourself. If I've radiated that I see it as an alternative, I didn't mean it that way. I really meant it as something extra. But I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	That's it. Then the serological test. Mrs De Vries asked for that, and I thought Mr Baudet also did. Look, the serological test is currently being used especially at population level, to see how high the immune level is at population level. Why is this particularly the case at population level? Because the sensitivity of that serological test isn't high enough. I'm staring at the doctors in the room, who are bumping me in the face. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Oh, total confusion. But the sensitivity is not really high enough to make the same statement on an individual level as you could on the basis of a negative test. However, the OMT has said that we need to look at whether it could be an alternative. That's one element. The second element is that we also look at the 180 days that are now designated as validity for the PCR test. You could also say that if that PCR test was taken more than 180 days ago and gave a positive result, it might also be a little longer as an alternative to being vaccinated. We have to look at that, because the latter is really stuck in the European regulation. I'd be more than happy to increase those 180 days, especially if doctors say it's justified. But we also need to coordinate this at European level. The OMT will investigate whether serological tests can also be used as an alternative. For the time being, they say, better not. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I'm all set, except for one point, at least where the corona tickets are concerned. That one point is... I will not bring all the signs of Mr Kuzu here. But maybe a little interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	At the risk of getting a little bit bogged down in detail, but you just looked at me and then I shook no and now I'm actually very curious... You say the sensitivity is too low. But now I know that there are already quite a lot of people who do such a serological test and then get a very clear result from the hospital or the testing body, with: the antibodies are so high that it fits with an infection, whether or not so long ago. In other viral infections, we also use these tests in that way. We already use them at the population level, as you yourself indicate, in the PIENTER study, for example. To be honest, my group has high hopes for this and I am a little surprised that the Minister says that it is not sensitive enough. I was wondering what sources the Minister used to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	I'm just basing myself on the statements made earlier by the experts in our LCT, so National Coordination Structure Testing. That's where more research has been done to see if we can use that serological test more widely. It was said at that time that it is better to use it at population level and not at individual level, because it has too little expressive power at individual level. That has to do with whether it depends on how that serological test is used. It's used on antibodies. Antibodies don't say everything. I think we should just follow the experts in that, anyway, when it comes to whether we are prepared to use serological tests as an alternative. As experts say, this can actually be as good, because also an antigen test is not 100% or 99% reliable. If experts say "you could use that as an alternative," I'm very willing to do so. Until recently, the experts said: don't do that, because the vocabulary of serological tests is really insufficient at individual level. At population level, that's what's meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	Another question from Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	I think it is also very interesting, I say to the Minister through the President, to look at the best practices from abroad. In a country like Israel, for example, this is being used more widely and used quite successfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	Even as an alternative to access?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yes. I think it is very interesting to apply this in the Netherlands. Look at the data from, for example, the PIENTER study. Then we see very hopeful results: 93% immunity is incredibly beautiful, I think. Should the results for the 1.8 million people who have not yet been vaccinated be as bad as for the blood donors, this might be very positive for the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	It is generally assumed that the selection of the population in the Sanquin constituency is a different type of selection than in the general population, i.e. to a much higher degree vaccinated. That is why we have built up protection and immunity to a much greater extent. So they're probably coming out higher. Anyway, you say if it worked, wouldn't you just use it? Of that I say: if it would work, I would like to use it. The OMT says: Shall we first find out if it actually works? I think that's a wise idea. Then I have one more point. Mr Kuzu has been extremely diligent over the last few days and has all made of these beautiful foamboards. At first I thought: well, that's nice; then I'm going to give my response by foamcord. Then I thought: if I did, the President would probably interrupt me for speaking too long and so on. I'm going to unpack one, because I think it's very good not to use a cut film for the statements that sometimes happens on Twitter, but to see the statements in the context of the moment. I'm just gonna get one out. It's about all the statements, by the way, but I'm just gonna get one out. "We're not gonna do that. In fact, I think we should make it legally impossible, because voluntary is voluntary, so voluntary is not secretly mandatory, but then via another route." Hugo de Jonge, OneToday, April 22, 2020. What's the big deal? That date: April 22, 2020. Because everyone will go back to the moment of that time and think, "Hey, but that CoronaCheck app didn't even exist at the time, did it? That's a pretty crazy statement about an app that doesn't even exist yet." That's right. It didn't exist and that statement wasn't about this app. Then we had a discussion about the CoronaMelder. At the CoronaMelder there was also the fear that employers would oblige them to their employees. At that time I said 'we're just going to make that impossible' and we did. In the law, we made that impossible. I know that statement is quoted a lot. I see him come by on Twitter all the time. I'll never get there, but I can see it anyway. So it's nice that I've been able to straighten it out, I just want to say. And if you were to cut a video of this debate later, my request would be to try to put this answer in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	We are very curious whether Mr Kuzu will do so. Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	To complete the video, we also had a discussion in the past about what we did at the time with the CoronaMelder app, which, of course, is also a form of compulsion and compulsion towards employees from their employers, and you can go through it one-on-one. You can go one-on-one to the CoronaCheck app, using a QR code to let people in at cafés, restaurants, etc. Can the Minister explain to me the difference between banning employers from installing the CoronaMelder app by their employees and the CoronaCheck app as we know it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	Well, I can do that very well. At the same time, I said that it would not be logical at all to assume that employers would oblige their employees to do so. Why not? Employers have suffered the most from this CoronaMelder. Why? Because people who got a blip on their CoronaMelder had to go home and be quarantined. That has, of course, been the case. That is why it makes no sense at all to assume that employers will be obliged to do so. I know that you, as a Chamber, have expressed concerns about this, and then we simply incorporated it into the law. That was then. That was the Corona Melder. The CoronaCheck app serves a very different purpose, namely a safe working environment or where care is concerned a safe care environment. For example, that employer in the care sector is also a director within the Wkkgz, who obliges him to do everything possible to create a safe care environment in that area where cancer patients are being treated or in that area where very fragile old people are being nursed. In short, that is a completely different goal. In such a situation, it can really make sense to use that CoronaCheck when you say "I really want to know in advance whether it is safe or not that my people are working with the patients who are entrusted to me." That is a completely different goal, a completely different situation and also a completely different phase of the crisis. That's why it's not so convenient to make statements that were both about another app and were made over a year ago, in a situation where we hadn't had the delta variant yet, hadn't had the alpha variant yet, and all the other variants haven't yet, to cut and paste one-on-one, to the current situation. It is a completely different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	It's even more profound. Because when we talk about a detector where you get a squeak when there are people around you who have had corona, it does indeed serve a completely different purpose. What we're going through today, with the CoronaCheck app, where you're not going to be given access to catering facilities, to certain events, goes way beyond what's happening right now. So I'm gonna keep up with that equation, and I'm even gonna put a shovel on top of it. The situation with that CoronaMelder a year ago was less dramatic than what we are experiencing today with the CoronaCheck app. And with that Corona Melder, we've legally forbidden it. We put that in the law at the time. And while this goes far beyond what was the case at the time, we're not including it in the law right now. We'll even make it possible. That's dichotomy in society. It's much worse than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	Now Mr Kuzu is really confusing everything. We also talked about the CoronaCheck app. We have had a whole legislative process for that. We asked the Health Council for advice and then we had a whole legislative process. I've been debating with your Chamber for hours. The result of that debate was an established law, here in the Lower House and then in the Upper Chamber. And it has made it possible for you to make the CoronaCheck mandatory in a number of sectors, if the situation so warrants. What sectors? Well, the sectors that are in the law. It is also prohibited in a number of sectors to do it there. It is also optional to do in a number of sectors and settings. That's just what the law says. We had this discussion with each other here, and that discussion has also been settled. This statement, therefore I call it, was about another app, another year, another debate and a completely different situation. And the law on the CoronaCheck app we dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	It is also interesting that the Minister also indicated in his reply that he had asked the Health Council for advice. "Yes, we did." An opinion has emerged from this, among other things, in which we have clarified the ethical and legal concerns. We also asked the Health Council: what is compulsion, what is urge? And then the Health Council comes up with a definition where it is also very clearly stated that the way we now deal with such an app, such a coronacheck and a corona pass, is a form of urge, whereas the Chamber has said that we should not do so. In your own answer, you say: we have asked the Health Council for advice. And that goes against this minister's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	No, absolutely not. We have had the advice of the Health Council. I have just explained this, but I think you were not in the Chamber at the time. We translated that into a bill. We debated this for hours, and at the end of that debate the Chamber said in a majority: yes, we can; we think that is sensible. Moreover, the Health Council did not say that all forms of urge would not be possible. Not at all. The Council has even said that this is certainly legitimate in a particular situation. I have just explained myself that I do not really use that word "exercise," because everyone gives it a different meaning. What we think is and is not justified, the First and Second Chambers have established; that is simply laid down in the law. And everything I'm proposing here fits perfectly within the law. Otherwise, I would not have been able to propose it. And as soon as we make a proposal that goes beyond the law, we'll have to submit a bill to your Chamber first. It's as simple as that. Then I'll come to the vaccination. I can't call it a block anymore, but this is the last block, Mr. Chairman. The crux of the question is, of course, to get that 85% even higher. I think so. But as I said to Mrs Bikker, I think 95% is very ambitious. It's almost impossible that that's possible. Why can't it almost be that possible? Because 95% is about the percentage you get from the National Vaccination Program. And the polarization around the dktp-prick is still a little less. So I honestly think that the headwind of polarization and the headwind of disinformation are so severe that they will certainly cause damage. They're gonna mean we can't reach everyone. That's inevitable. Nevertheless, I think we should do everything we can to get that vaccination rate as high as possible. And there's really nothing I wouldn't be willing to do to achieve that. Let me say that. Many parties have asked: what do you actually do to get as high as possible? I think what we did was well explained yesterday in the technical briefing. We've actually started the fine-meshed vaccination halfway through that mass vaccination campaign. From about mid-May you saw the first prick buses driving through the country. So we've been working on that for a long time. What we're actually doing is analyzing who belongs to that 15%. Those aren't all people who would necessarily refuse that vaccine. You can't do that. Because if we did, how do we get our figures out of the willingness studies? So some of the people in that 15% group will really not want it. It will be. Another part of that group concerns the people who had just not gotten to it. We may find this incomprehensible because we are working on it all day, but it may also be true that your life is a little different. We know that's true of a lot of young people. They'll see the prick bus at the university, and they'll think, "Yeah, why not?" So these are not people who have a huge objection in principle to vaccination or who have a lot of doubts or hesitations. With them it had practically just not come of it yet. People were on vacation, they weren't there, and so on. Those are the physical thresholds we need to take away for that group. That's really helping. You're definitely gonna win a few percent with that. The group that really is zu haben is the group that sits in the middle. Those are not refusals of principle, but you shouldn't think you're gonna get there with another pokebus. That just really requires more explanation. That group is very varied. For example, there are a lot of young women who say: I read somewhere that it does something with fertility; I think I can't get pregnant if I get vaccinated. That's the group that says: I just don't understand why vaccines have been developed in such a short time; that can't be safe; I don't know the long-term effects. You will have to approach them with very different information and not necessarily with public sector information. A white coat works much better there. A GP can really have that conversation better than a government campaign, so to speak. Please let that be a one-on-one conversation. You have to get into a one-on-one situation. That is, for example, the purpose of those prick buses on the market, having this kind of one-to-one conversations. It'll take time. We have to work much harder for each shot now than in the mass period. It just takes time. What we're doing and what we've been doing for a long time... I do think we still have to go through with that. You have three main groups: the people who want to but simply experience practical obstacles, the group with a lot of doubts and the group that necessarily doesn't want to. There is still a lot of doubt about this group in particular. You have to work very hard for that and you have to know very well who they are, where they live and so on and what their hesitations are, which also helps in the message, but also in the messenger, to convince them, and that's exactly what we do, one by one, prick for prick. I hope that ultimately brings us to the point where I think that could be a real ambition, which is just over 90%. I think that should be possible. Then I come to the 50-plussers of Paternotte. Of course, that's the group you want most. Imagine if we all didn't succeed very well with the young, but with those 50-plussers we did. Then we won a world, too. Okay, then you may not have slowed down the spread very much, but at least you've slowed down the chances of hospitalization very much. What I'm most jealous of is the vaccination rate among 50-plussers in Denmark. That also makes the difference, because for the rest the vaccination rates are actually quite similar. There are many more differences with the Danes, but this is one of the differences. Except who are those 50-plussers? These 50-plussers are also the migrants from Africa, those 50-plussers are also the people who have doubts at all: why has such an effective vaccine been developed in such a short time? So those 50-plussers are common in all groups. In the practical barrier group perhaps not so much, but in the no group and at least in the doubt group. In short, all campaigns aimed at removing doubts and emotional barriers that succeed will also have reached the 50-plussers. Is there a separate 50-plus campaign possible? We've put a lot of smart people in there to think of something creative, not "we're going to call all the 50-plussers who haven't gotten stuck" because that doesn't relate to privacy laws. So we need to do that more creatively, and we're doing everything we can to do that. If you yourself have a brilliant idea: I am really willing to do anything, because this is going to make a difference if we succeed. The point of home vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr Paternotte has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	Maybe the minister's gonna say something about it, but we went to see what's going on with those pharmacists who offered "we really want to help." We see that in Ireland, Norway and France pharmacists are being used to vaccinate. They also happen to be places where many 50-plussers come because they have to get their medicine. Does the Minister know what Ireland, Norway and France, those three countries, have in common?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	Ireland, Norway and France, what do they have in common? You're going to tell me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	All three have a considerably higher vaccination rate than the Netherlands. I don't want to say that it's just because they're using pharmacists, but I do think... Last time, the Chamber said, "Get in touch with the pharmacists." The minister said, "I'm gonna do that." But when I checked with the pharmacists yesterday, there hadn't been a single phone call from the Ministry. That is why I said: are all registers being opened to ensure that we can and will help anyone who wants to do so? I am thinking in particular of general practitioners and pharmacists, who are in contact with people very directly, and who prefer to use them as well, and who prefer to have them drive the puncture box if they want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	I need to see if that conversation really wasn't there. I honestly can't imagine that, but I'm checking. If you have heard that again, the conversation has certainly not been with the person you had on the phone; there is no other way. For example, I know that the GGD in I believe Friesland or in Groningen is simply working with pharmacies. They then put a puncture box on the sidewalk at the pharmacy, because of course you need a BIG registration to be able to prick. The pharmacist doesn't have one. Also, there's got to be a doctor. That was agreed in the directive. Of course, a pharmacist can't organize all of that himself. But the needlebox on the sidewalk at the pharmacist's: why not? That's a good idea. I know that it also happens in a number of GGD regions. I'm checking to see if that conversation with the pharmacists has happened. I believe that we should seize every opportunity. I don't know if the causality you just named is entirely researchal. But why not? I'm sure I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	That certainly isn't, but I think it's good to try everything. That's why I'm just surprised that a month later relatively little has changed compared to what we knew then, namely that there was a plan for a pilot in Friesland. The question to the Minister is therefore indeed to find out, but also to look at what they are doing in France, Norway, Belgium, Ireland and also in Brussels, wherever they are starting to prick through the pharmacists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	We always look at interesting examples abroad. Sometimes the legislation in the Netherlands is slightly different. Then things that can do there just can't be here. Sometimes you ask yourself: why did we even organize it like that? But it is often the slowest way to change things through legislation. So we have to look at that practically. I agree with you that we should have that contact with the pharmacists and that we should look at what can be done. The VVD asked: what if that third shot is needed for people with a weak immune system for more people? We take out the third shot for people with a weak immune system and the booster. We had the third shot for people with a weak immune system examined very well by the RIVM together with the FMS, so the medical specialists. There have been all kinds of studies in groups of whom we know they have a weak immune system. The groups that have been included are those of whom we know they have a very, very, very weak immune system, but which at the same time we know they are susceptible to that third shot, so that third shot could help. A list of very specific patient groups has emerged. We're just trying to keep all patients from calling their own specialist, because that's gonna get the doctors so busy. That's only good for the KPN, so to speak. So we say, you're approached by your specialist if you're part of that group. I don't think we're going to expand those groups either, unless research shows that that would be necessary. We need to keep a close eye on the booster shot to see if there is any decline in immunity. I have agreed with RIVM that once every two weeks they will monitor for us the target groups in which there would be decreasing immunity. You should then think about the nursing home residents, or, if you draw a slightly larger circle, 80-plussers, or perhaps 70-plussers and 60-plussers, or people with certain underlying sufferings, so to people with certain conditions where immunity might decrease more quickly, or to people who have received certain vaccines. For example, I know that people who received AstraZeneca say: I would like that third shot. What they mean is, they want that booster. That's just good news, I think. We can see that all vaccines currently provide incredibly good protection against serious illness and hospitalisation. That's the purpose of the vaccination. I think that is particularly good news. But we must, as you say, keep our finger on the wrist very well, and as soon as necessary stand ready. That's what I agreed with the RIVM. As soon as RIVM sees it decrease a little bit on the basis of the biweekly monitoring in that group, the Health Council says: this is going to be very slow anyway; you're going to see it, but that will be very slow then I want the RIVM to be activated quickly to roll out that booster campaign together with the GGD for them. That's what all the maps are being grafted on right now. Some of them are already ready, and that's how it has to be ready. Paternotte asks why in Belgium as many people are called up for the third shot as in the Netherlands, while the country is much smaller. I don't know about that. You can see that every country is actually dealing with it in the same way, namely: who needs a third shot and who will be interested in this booster? Some countries already do this booster, even though their Health Council says it is not necessary. I myself do not think that is such a good idea for the argument you have just mentioned. You need to see where the vaccines are most effective right now. For the control of corona worldwide, a vaccine in an unvaccinated upper arm is now more effective than a booster in the Netherlands for people who don't need it. So there is much to say not to do a booster yet, also for many other reasons mentioned by the Health Council. As far as the third shot is concerned, we rely entirely on the group appointed by the Federation of Medical Specialists. If she adds a group, we add a group. But she has looked very carefully for who it makes sense and for who it doesn't. I'm assuming that definition. The number of 200,000 to 400,000 is an estimate, because we don't have a list of names. It's really an assessment. We do it on the basis of disease and drug use. We don't have any data to tweak it exactly. The number is 200,000 to 400,000. My assumption is that Belgium makes such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	Belgium says 300,000 to 400,000. That is in a country where I believe 11 million people live. In fact, this means that they take into account about twice as many booster shots. Since we seem to have a similar definition of 'immune compromised', I would like to know how it is possible for Belgium to come up with double standards. In other words, what categories do we not have that they do? I would like to ask the Minister if he can send that to us next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	I will check whether they apply the same categories. I don't know how they make their sums and deal with Excelsheets. I don't really care about that either. For the Netherlands, it is much more relevant if we have the right groups. A very detailed study has been carried out into the answer to that question. A lot of immunity studies have been done in immunocompromised patients, and this is the answer. These are the patient groups. That's how you find them. These are the drug indications for these groups, and that's how you can find them. I'm not gonna interfere with that. I'm just leaning on what the experts are offering us. What if they made a slightly different assessment in Belgium? Well, fine. It's up to them. But I can see if those lists are about the same. How the numbers then relate, I don't know. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	I'm just gonna take a quick look at Mrs. Den Haan. He had asked another question about the elderly and the QR code via the GP. I don't know if you've answered that question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	Yeah, I answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	It's done now, but I'm still looking at Mrs Van Esch to see if all the questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	I've asked in general...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	Oh, that's what you meant by "general."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	In general, I asked about prevention policy at the moment, as there is an adopted motion calling on this outgoing cabinet to make progress on prevention policy. Secretary of State Blokhuis could do that. I'll make the call again. Then how's it going? So far, we are only getting back options and opportunities from Secretary of State Blokhuis, who states: we have to wait until there is a new government. In my opinion, as a Chamber, we have made a very clear statement about the fact that prevention policy would simply be missionary. I am actually curious as to why this is happening and whether this Minister can indicate what the plans are going to be, if the plans that Mr Blokhuis is sending have to wait. I don't think that was the deal we had with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	Maybe I could apply a little nuance. Blokhuis is very driven to do everything on prevention that works. He's very driven. In fact, in a number of Parliamentary debates Mr Blokhuis has been somewhat tempered in his drive to take major steps in the area of prevention policy. The point is as follows. I think you have a number of proposals in mind, and I would be sure that as Mr Blokhuis, who would send a delegation to the Chamber, a number of eyebrows will be frowned upon. Take, for example, your enthusiasm, as I know, for the sugar tax. I also know that it is a bit controversial. That doesn't mean that you couldn't decide, but that's really something for the formation. So I understand Blokhuis when he says: well, I'm doing what I can and what the Chamber gives me the space to do, but I'm not going to introduce a sugar tax on a late afternoon. In my opinion, his pitiful political feeling that Mr Wilders, for example, would be able to raise his eyebrows is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	There's... there's... there's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	I need you to press the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	There's another motion from the Chamber passed here. I do get the impression that we are getting bigger and bigger piles of adopted motions that are not being carried out. It just says here literally "says that the State Secretary of Health needs to be given every opportunity to develop effective prevention policies to improve the basic health of the Netherlands." Then I say: what does that mean at the moment, now that we as a Chamber have offered all the space?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	No offense, but it also sounds a bit like "pronounced that world peace must come." It's hard to be against that. It is difficult to say that we are not doing everything we can to improve health in the preventive sense. Yeah, try to resist that. Imagine if you had tabled the motion saying that there should be a sugar tax. Do you still think there would have been a majority in favour? I don't know. It could be. I think Blokhuis is really doing everything he can within the space that the Chamber has given him for this moment. I'm sure there's some very nice things going on at that formation table. Remkes is working hard on that. I'm sure there's a lot of hard work there. For example, there is certainly a new cabinet very soon that can work with new plans to its heart's content, perhaps and hopefully also on prevention policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I think there is a need for motions to be tabled. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, we believe that the corona ticket is an opportunity to offer more space. But I am also honest: as soon as we can, we must also abolish it. As far as we are concerned, this must not last indefinitely. We have signed another motion by Mrs Kuiken of the PvdA for the exclusion of terraces. We are also under a motion by Mrs Den Haan on the aid packages, because we think it is important that matters should be dealt with. The outgoing Prime Minister had yet to consider when the development of the aid package would come to the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, that will come to the Chamber as soon as possible. We would prefer to have this by means of a concerted approach, but at least very quickly, because entrepreneurs need to be made clear. About the vaccinations and solving the problems with QR-code I have one more practical example. I hope that the problem has now been solved by the people who have had an AstraZenecaprik first and a Pfizer prick second. They had some trouble getting a QR code, so I hope they're fixed, too. Thank you for the commitment that we will receive a letter on enforcement in the short term. We assume that this will therefore be an effective enforcement. Two short, final points. As far as we are concerned, the test capacity should be in order. That means it's got to be in the vicinity. I think that, if you run a tender, you can also ask about the spread and accessibility of the country. So I would like it to be promised that at least we are trying to achieve that. And if there are any other issues, such as the Wadden Islands, I think it is indeed complicated, because there may not really be a lot of questions, then it is really necessary to look at a pragmatic solution with the region, but also with the companies that are there, in order to achieve this. Finally. I find it rather complicated that there are parties in the House of Representatives who call for the rules to be ignored which we may lay down here. I think that's weird. I also think that this is difficult for entrepreneurs, because when they are fined or, if necessary, closed, they have a major problem. I wouldn't like that. If we are all here to lay down rules, then we simply have to implement them, even if you disagree and did not vote for them. I think that's an important one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66. He doesn't use his second term. I think Mr Wilders from the PVV does. He'd announced a motion before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you, Mr President. That's right, two motions. The first one is about the corona pass. I cannot say that the cabinet, in its missionary status, comes up with such a terrible coercive and urges measure that simply leads to a total division and makes some sort of second-class citizens of people who do not want to be tested and are forced, or at least forced, to be pricked. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce the corona access card required on 25 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Baudet, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Esch, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Hijink and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1424]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr Geert Wilders' motion says that from 25 September the corona ticket cannot be introduced. Now, of course, the corona admission ticket has been in existence for some time and it is already being used in many places in the Netherlands, albeit with a more limited set of locations and events. My question is whether by means of this motion he means that from 25 September the corona ticket should not be requested there, in other words: does he say that it should be completely lifted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	No, this motion refers to the enlargements as of 25 September. There are the names of all those colleagues underneath. The PVV voted against the law/regulations on these tickets. The PVV's gonna let it all go. So, yes, the PVV says, completely gone. This motion concerns the introduction on 25 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	If I listen to you when you read the motion, I just hear that the literal text of the motion says that it should not be used from 25 September. It seems to me that it is quite relevant for parties that are going to vote on this issue to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	That is why I am giving the explanation. I do not think Mr Paternotte's explanation applies, but that of the author of the motion. So it's kind of a silly question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	We'll include this in the debate. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas. Would you like to ask me about this motion, which I think your name is on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	I do not know if I am going to go completely out of order again, but this is the motion on which I would like to request a roll-call vote. Actually, I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	Yes, correct. Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the second and final motion. I also submitted these last time, and I will continue to submit them as long as there are restrictions on freedom while the corona crisis is over. This is what I think a large part of the Netherlands wants, what we should have done a long time ago and what we should have done now. That motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to lift all the corona measures immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, and also for the commitment to look at the PCR lolly, as I would call it, for children under 12 years of age, and that we are definitely looking at the use of mobile buses to test people, so that at least the accessibility is much better. Mr. Chairman. It is clear from what we have said that we are also participating in Mrs Kuik's motion that we want to exclude the outdoor terraces from the corona admission certificate. We have also signed two motions by Mrs Den Haan. One is about financial support for entrepreneurs and the other is about the possibility that the elderly can really easily get a paper corona ticket. I have one question to the Minister about this, because he referred briefly to the fact that there have now been solutions for all kinds of foreign combinations. I have already contacted our liaison officer, if I may call it that. But at least I get emails from people who say it just doesn't work; I got two vaccinations in Germany, I finally got a paper print from a German pharmacist and I was able to download it with the French app. But people still run into a lot of problems. I would like to draw attention to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We owe you another motion on the salaries in health care. We are also submitting them on behalf of the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many wages in the healthcare sector are structurally lower than in the market sector, as shown by the ESC opinion "Getting started on care";]] [[Whereas the Chamber with the motion-Kwint adopted (25295, No. 1233) called on the government, by this summer at the latest, to come up with a plan, in consultation with health care staff and their representatives, for structural appreciation for caregivers, in order to achieve better working conditions and a better salary;]] [[Considering that it is undesirable that a concrete step should be taken in these intensive times of care and that this is most true for the care staff who have been earning less structuralally for years and have less prospects of growth than in the market sector and large parts of the public sector;]] [[whereas it is desirable that a concrete first step be taken and that the cabinet itself presents several realistic variants in its response to the SER opinion in 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to release sufficient additional financial resources for healthcare salaries in the next budget, starting with EUR 600 million in 2022, in order to reduce in particular the largest pay gap and allow a structural wage increase for care staff, to make the necessary preparations and to find budgetary cover for increases in corporate taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	I was in my own dream world a little bit, but we're not quite done yet. Mr. Chairman. I said in an interruption: if you look deep into my heart, I might have preferred to keep this for another month and see what it does, but that is not the case. If we are going to work with alternatives, I would like to table the next two motions. It concerns a motion on outdoor terraces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on 25 September, the Cabinet intends to make the use of corona access tickets compulsory in hotels and restaurants, among others;]] [[Whereas the risk of contamination in outdoor areas is less than in indoor areas;]] [[calls on the Government to grant an exception to the obligation to use corona tickets for outdoor terraces-in-hospital services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1427]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	The second motion concerns the association locations of cultural sites and sports locations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is considering the introduction of corona access cards for several sectors;]] [[considers that the use of corona access tickets should only be considered if proportionate and practicable;]] [[Whereas the eating and drinking facilities of association sites of sports and cultural sites are more likely to have the character of a take-out function and therefore a corona ticket for the collection of food and drink alone is not proportionate and practicable;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible that a corona admission certificate is not necessary for the collection of food and drink only in these specific settings in case the food or drink is also consumed in the same association locations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	If you go to the Rugby Club in The Hague and you have a big party in the evening, I understand that you have a different situation than in the afternoon with a chocolate or an AA Drink. That's why this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that reports on the corona policy were previously leaked in the media in a consistent and consistent manner before the House of Representatives was fully informed;]] [[noting that the Coronaper Conferences also took place earlier before the Lower House was informed and the Chamber was able to hold a debate on them;]] [[Whereas the Government has a constitutional duty to inform the States General and the Government has expressed its intention to pursue a new administrative culture;]] [[considers that the above approach frustrates the social debate on fundamental issues;]] [[Takes note of the way in which the outgoing cabinet leaks consistent and consistent information on the corona policy to the press, without any doubt, to reject;]] [[calls on the Government to hold the Coronaper Conference only after the end of the parliamentary debate, if there is no immediate urgency;]] [[calls on the government to stop leaking information on the corona approach to the press,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Bikker, Mr Simons, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Esch, Mr Den Haan, Mr Stoffer and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	And then the second motion. It's a little shorter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the test may be a threshold by nose removal for children, but also for people with disabilities;]] [[noting that testing contributes to the safety of children, educational staff and vulnerable groups;]] [[calls on the Government to also make saliva testing available to children and to encourage their use in schools, in health care institutions and at testing sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Chicken and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	Is it a condition for Mrs Westerveld in that last motion that these tests are also reliable and applicable, for example for the corona admission certificate? Of course, I believe they're helping, but I don't know if they have the same specificity as the regular test. I imagine there has to be such a quality requirement. If that is also important to you, I am inclined to support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yes, I would also like to add that to the motion, but of course it is about testing being reliable and easier to apply. I'll add that if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few final words and a question that has remained. Firstly, the Party for Animals is under the motion just filed by the PVV. In this way, we say once again that we do not want a coronapas. As far as we are concerned, it is too far-reaching a measure with major consequences. The Minister for Health and the Prime Minister's refusal to admit that this is a vaccination requirement is also hampering a good discussion of the ethical consequences that are to come. My group, as I have already outlined in the first term, has serious concerns about security, privacy, freedom of choice and the effect on confidence in this cabinet policy. As far as we're concerned, we're really not doing it. One more question remains. I saw on a social media account of the Minister of Health that he and his colleagues from the G-20 have been working abroad to prepare for new pandemics. I hope that he has also talked about the prevention of pandemics and that he has involved the Bekedam report and the zoonoses expert group. I'm very curious to see how these conversations about preventing pandemics have gone. I'm also curious when there will be a cabinet response to that Bekedam report. This extensive cabinet response is still expected, given that the report has been there for several months. I look forward to the reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union and then to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a great responsibility on the part of the public authorities to first apply less stringent measures, such as additional efforts to increase vaccination rates and to distribute self-testing on a large scale;]] [[Whereas releasing the 1.5 metres without any other precautionary measure will increase the number of infections and the pressure on care, which is already high;]] [[calls on the cabinet to combat the corona crisis, based on confidence in society, with measures that are effective and reduce the pressure on care and refrain from the proposed broad introduction of the corona access card;]] [[In addition to maintaining the current situation, the government requests an urgent opinion from the OMT on how to prevent contamination, weighing how behavioural advice can contribute to keeping the infection rate low, in addition to maintaining the current situation.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bikker, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Stoffer and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u91	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in some neighbourhoods in mainly larger cities the vaccination rate is low and relatively many people still have doubts;]] [[Whereas research carried out by the LUMC shows that the information is difficult to understand both for people with a non-Dutch background and for low-literate Dutch people;]] [[calls on the Government to make additional efforts to reach out to residents in vulnerable neighbourhoods with information on vaccination and vaccination possibilities, with the basic principles of poking at familiar locations, information by organisations and key figures closely involved in these groups, regular presence and time for conversation;]] [[calls on the regional GGD's and vaccination sites to use trusted meeting places in the district and to give the GGD's space from their own knowledge and expertise to try out various new possibilities without being directly judged on results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Kuik, Mr Westerveld and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u92	I was wondering why this motion specifically targets this group and not other groups where the vaccination rate is lower. I would then like to take the very broad spectrum and see if we can increase the vaccination rate anywhere. If I understood correctly, I do not hear, for example, whether specific measures are needed in the bible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you for this question. I like the question. I do not think that Mrs De Vries meant it, but you might hear that the rabble for the people of the Christian Union is perhaps the place where they are most senang, but where there is also a lot of doubt. Let me just say one thing. What I really do as a representative of the Christian Union is explaining that I think it is important for me to be vaccinated. I have also done so because it protects others and protects myself. That's one. In addition, the Christian Union also has a large constituency in these cities, namely among migrant communities. It is precisely there that I hear that everything the GGD is doing is not working enough, unlike the bible, where people have been familiar with people who have doubts about vaccinations for many years. The national vaccination programme is very familiar with this. Frankly, the signals I am getting are that extra effort needs to be made in the big cities. If Mrs De Vries has any other signals, I'd love to hear it. On the biblebelt that happens of course, because the GGD's are busy. So with all my love, if I get any signals about what might happen there, I'd love to. However, I am still trying to organise motions for resolutions on the places where I think there is a great deal of delay here, and there can be extra national policy, extra effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr. Paternotte, any other question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u95	The Christian Union has tabled a motion with the SP on healthcare salaries. And next week, we'll be expecting the Prince's Daypieces from the Cabinet. Is it possible to vote on the motion next Thursday, after the General Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u96	I'd like to think about that for a second. We have tabled the motion just now because we see that there are all kinds of rules in force around the state area. It is therefore also important to send the message to employers: this is the additional investment the government wants to make. That is at least what the Chamber will say. So I'd like to think about that. But if it helps Mr Paternotte in his considerations, there is, of course, a constructive attitude; he will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u97	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u98	Madam President. It is symbolic that a statue of Satoshi Nakamoto has been revealed in Hungary today. This visionary, this genius, has probably disappeared from the face of the earth for good reasons, because he was afraid of the state power. Look at Ross Ulbricht, look at Julian Assange, look at other people who are mistakenly imprisoned for their lives. Those were people who saw what was going on. The Great Reset. The great neo-communist coup. Revenge of the system against all the brilliant freedom-oriented developments in the world that have become possible since the discovery of the Tor network and the free internet. This is, of course, through the bandwidth of medical deception and bullshit about corona and all that. This is, of course, just a coup d'état. It's a hold of power. That is why it is ironic that today, while we are having this conversation, a statue has been unveiled in Hungary in honour of bitcoin, in honor of free money, the free network. But this is probably a little beyond your IQ, so I'll also file a normal motion that you understand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is committed to a digital infrastructure enabling children from 13 years of age to be denied access to large parts of social life on the basis of their medical status;]] [[Considering that in the "serious" corona scenario for autumn, the Cabinet does not exclude the wider application of the QR code requirement, for example in education;]] [[Whereas, under no circumstances should children be socially isolated or denied access to decent education, which would seriously impede their personal and social development;]] [[Whereas corona does not pose any danger to children, nor does it affect 99.9% of the population;]] [[calls on the Government never to discriminate against minors on the basis of their medical status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1433]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next motion I will introduce a little bit. This motion has to do with the fact that Volt is internationally oriented as a European party. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that COVID-19 concerns a pandemic, i.e. an epidemic on a global scale;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is not safe from the effects of the corona virus as long as Europe is not safe;]] [[Whereas Europe is not safe from the effects of the corona virus as long as the rest of the world is not safe;]] [[Whereas the Coronaper Conferences do not, or hardly, address the European and global corona situation;]] [[calls on the government to pay more attention to the European and global corona situation at the coronaper conferences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u100	Then I have another motion, which concerns the OVV, which we have just discussed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, at the request of the Cabinet, the Research Council for Security (OVV) launched a study in May 2020 on the approach to the corona crisis by the Dutch government and other interested parties;]] [[Considering that the OVV study is essential for an independent assessment of the corona policy of the current Demissionary Cabinet;]] [[considers that interim lessons and recommendations from the OVV are important, especially now that the corona crisis is not over;]] [[calls on the Government to request the OVV to draw up an interim report as soon as possible and to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber when the final results of the OVV investigation will be made available;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the conclusions and recommendations of this study with an opinion and to incorporate the conclusions and recommendations positively assessed in the Corona Policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Simons, Mr Westerveld, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1435]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to hear that the Minister states that if there is evidence of the use of serological tests at patient level, he is in favour of this. We believe that this can have a major impact on international travel, especially for people in border areas. We should look at best practices from abroad, including Israel, where these serological tests are already mandatory for all traveling tourists. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the intention to introduce a corona admission certificate does not take into account a group of people with natural immunity;]] [[Whereas serological tests, including within the framework of the PIENTER Corona RIVM study, are used to determine antibodies against COVID-19;]] [[Whereas serological tests contribute to fair and accessible access as well as to increased knowledge of immunity in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to commit itself to the rapid admissibility of serological tests so that they can be used as grounds for a recovery certificate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van Haga, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Bikker, Mr Den Haan, Mr Wilders and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u104	Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona admission certificate is currently based on a vaccination certificate, a recovery certificate or a negative test certificate;]] [[Whereas in this way people always have an alternative to an entry permit if they are not vaccinated or do not have the disease;]] [[points out that not only evidence of vaccination or disease through should be a requirement for access to facilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Bikker and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several medicinal products are under development for the control and treatment of COVID-19;]] [[Whereas it is important to be able to apply new medicinal products to patients as soon as possible after these medicinal products have been approved by the EEA;]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort at European level to reach agreement with producers of high-risk (antiviral) drugs in the short term and to draw up a plan of action so that these medicines can be applied to patients as soon as possible once they have been approved, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1438]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u106	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to require entrepreneurs and institutions to use corona access tickets;]] [[Whereas this is contrary to what the Government has promised in the treatment of the Temporary Law on Corona Access Cards;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to give entrepreneurs and institutions the choice not to use corona access cards for those sectors where a corona admission certificate is made mandatory, but instead to apply the one and a half meter rule,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u107	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government never to introduce its own contribution to corona access tests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Esch, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u108	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr President. As far as my group is concerned, the focus of today's debate is that we have stopped the grim plans of the cabinet for a coronapas. If you question that critically, you get the answer: "Yes, it is a different context. It's a different spirit of time. In April 2020, the epidemiological situation was much more intense than it is today." And then it serves another purpose. It takes a lot of words to straighten out what's crooked. Mr. Chairman. A number of groups claim that it can be defended. I don't think I can defend it at all. That is why we have also co-signed Mr Wilders' motion. As far as we are concerned, that is the most important commitment of the day. I also have two other motions, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that companies cannot impose vaccination as a condition for their employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[indicates that vaccination is voluntary and therefore not secretly compulsory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1441]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u111	There were very firm words by Mr Kuzu today against the use of corona tickets. You have, of course, done your best here to use that European digital corona certificate in countries outside Europe, so that you can travel to Turkey and Morocco, for example. Now, last week, Turkey introduced a corona ticket for theatres, cinemas, schools and even domestic travel. That goes a little further than the Netherlands goes. My question is how Mr Kuzu feels about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u112	I am a member of the Dutch Parliament. We are here with 150 MPs defending the interests of the Dutch. You also have European contacts and in Turkey you have 550 parliamentarians. They are about what is happening in Turkey and I am about what is happening in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u113	Very well, but you think that the use of corona tickets is exclusion, discrimination, apartheid and so on, as you just said. I assume that this applies to the Netherlands, but also to every country where it is deployed, including Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u114	I find it really very interesting that a political party such as D66, which has a great deal of diversity, is asking me questions about the political situation in Turkey, because I have a Turkish background, about a subject which is then their agenda. I think it's very inappropriate. I don't think it adorns D66. I do not think Mr Paternotte is an adornment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mandatory closure of all hotels and restaurants is maintained between 00.00 a.m. and 06.00 a.m.;]] [[noting that the Security Council advised the Cabinet not to oblige the catering industry to this closing time;]] [[noting that police and boa interest groups have indicated that they have serious doubts about the enforcement of a closing time;]] [[Whereas, in the case of one fixed closing time for all catering establishments, large numbers of people arise in and around the catering establishments;]] [[noting that a mandatory closing time from 00.00 to 06.00 hours affects precisely those sectors which have suffered for 1.5 years from the corona measures;]] [[Whereas a corona test certificate after 00.00 hours has the same value as after;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the mandatory closing time throughout the catering industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u117	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the hospitality sector has suffered economically for 1.5 years under the corona measures;]] [[noting that many Catering Establishments only survive by making use of the State Aid Packages;]] [[noting that additional capacity is required for checking the corona admissions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the search for a nighthoreca support package includes the wide catering and events sector and invites it to be linked back to the debate on the support packages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Aartsen, Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Kuzu, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u118	Then I had a third motion. My clock started too late, so I still have time. I had a third motion with colleagues Westerveld, Kicken and Van den Berg on the QR codes, so that older people can easily get their QR code on paper. But I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated that, apart from the telephone number, it will soon be possible to do so in the libraries and that if you have been pricked by the general practitioner and your data are not properly registered, that can also be done with the general practitioner. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you. I'd like to say something in advance. I hope that does not go away from my speaking time. It's about Minister Kaag, after all. I supported the motion and, of course, I had some clashes with her here, but, well, that's why we're in an arena. But I would like to wish Mrs Kaag, as a person and as a woman, strength and good luck. That's what I wanted to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u122	The motions. I've got two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[in the event that the arrival of the corona access pass is adopted by a majority of the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that young people are disproportionately affected by the introduction of a corona access pass;]] [[noting that young people from 13 to 19 years of age rarely end up in intensive care;]] [[noting that test streets, especially in rural areas, are not always easily accessible;]] [[requests the cabinet to exclude 13-19 year olds from the corona access pass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Haga and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[in the event that the arrival of the corona access pass is adopted by a majority of the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that the government requires unvaccinated citizens to be tested if they wish to visit a location where a corona access pass is required by the government;]] [[noting that the journey time to test sites, especially in rural areas, sometimes takes hours;]] [[whereas the public authorities are there for citizens and not the other way round;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that people can take a test at least within half an hour of travelling time and to adjust the number of locations accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hoping for the same moving insight that this outgoing cabinet had with regard to masks in the Ov, I submit the next motion together with Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that foot-nose masks are no longer mandatory in healthcare establishments;]] [[noting that the Demissionary Cabinet maintains the duty of foot-and-nose masking in public transport under the precautionary principle;]] [[Whereas care institutions, hospitals and other places of care should be places where vulnerable groups, risk groups, patients and care staff should be as safe as possible;]] [[Whereas caregivers and patients find it more pleasant and safer when foot-nose masks become mandatory in healthcare institutions under the precautionary principle;]] [[calls on the Government to re-make foot-nose masks in healthcare establishments, as in public transport, mandatory under the precautionary principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Van der Plas. I thought it was a very emotional moment when Sigrid Kaag left here. I probably do not agree with her in any way and I have also supported the motions of censure and mistrust, but I still have deep respect for Sigrid Kaag. I've rarely met such a worthy opponent. So I wish her all the best from here. I am sorry that things have to turn out this way, but yes: it is politics and that is annoying. But here's the thing. Then there's the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are hardly any infections outside;]] [[calls on the government in the outdoors, such as on a terrace, not to require a corona pass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research shows that after infection with COVID-19 immunity appears to last much longer than 180 days;]] [[requests the Government to consider whether this period can be extended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1448]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1449]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the Cabinet has allocated funds to monitor the enforcement of the corona pass;]] [[calls on the government to invest this money in scaling up the number of ic-beds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1450]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u128	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. There will be another appreciation by the rulers. They have indicated that they need 15 minutes to prepare for that. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u129	First of all, I give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. Chairman. I have just discussed with the Prime Minister that I am simply making all the motions, because it was not so easy to distribute it all neatly. That's why I'm just doing the whole pile and then I have a few questions to answer. First of all, the Wilders c.s. motion. in piece No. 1424. With reference to the debate, I would advise against that motion. I would like to point out, however, that I suspect that the signatories will not be entirely in agreement on what should replace it as an alternative. That's what I'm guessing. Then there is the Wilders motion in part No. 1425. It wants to remove all measures immediately. That is, of course, irresponsible, so I would advise against it, referring to the debate. The motion-Hijink/Bikker in part No. 1426 calls for the release of financial resources. I would advise against this motion by referring to the explanatory statement by the mp. Then the motion chick c.s. in piece No. 1427, who asks for an exception from the CTB for outdoor terraces. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, given the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you. Then, I think, there is a question from Mrs Bikker about the motion in part No. 1426. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u132	The Minister will also have heard that during the debate a question arose about the increase in healthcare salaries, which this motion is about. I have always understood that the system is so that by mid-September at least you have to have a clear signal or the oval is raised, because otherwise the following year, that is 2022, wages can no longer be increased. Then, of course, it matters whether we proceed with this motion towards Princess Day, which falls this year on 21 September, or whether we put it to the vote. I get... no, actually I don't get it, but I'll accept that the Minister is dissuading the motion, but in fact, I'd really like to get this information straight, because I'm not a spokesperson for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u133	You have that information, because we sent it to the Chamber in the letter on the SER report. I think it's a little too much technique to use that as an argument right now, but if you look at how the system works, it's like this. On October 1st, you must have fixed the premium. That's just what the law says. In order to do that, insurers need to know about the risk settlement. This settlement can be used as a route no later than 13 September, in order to finish the premium fixing on 1 October. This means that even now the date of 1 October can no longer be reached, that this motion would be adopted and that it would lead to an additional addition to the oval. In short, the technique is already resisting increasing the oval. However, I would like to add that, given that you would like to take this motion this evening and that it would mean that it is inevitable... Look, if such a motion is adopted, we will of course take it back to the cabinet, because that is what we need to talk about. So we're just not gonna make it to the 1st of October anyway. So either you don't execute her and you do get the date of October 1st, or you do and you don't get the date of October 1st. That's what we'd have to come back to. In short, a lot of technique. Actually, you're already too late, I'd like to say, because it should've been on the 13th. Suppose the motion is adopted and the cabinet decides to implement it, which is not easy at all for all kinds of reasons. If you did, the Cabinet would have to come back to your Chamber with some implementing consequences. One of these consequences is that in any case it will not be possible to comply with the law that the premium must be fixed on 1 October, the fixing of the nominal premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u134	That is a dilemma for Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u135	I'm leaving the dilemma now. I can deal with this and also with signals that I have received earlier that the net could handle it, that it is at least three to twelve. Anyway, we can't figure that out right now. Thank you in any case for this comprehensive explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u136	Believe me, the memos I've been talking about were far more technical and extensive. Then the motion to part No. 1428 by Mrs Kuik, who asks not to use those corona tickets when collecting only food and drink. If it's just pickup, it's in the scheme. Otherwise, it will quickly become complicated to define it properly in the scheme. So we're going to try, if this motion is passed, to make that really only applicable to pickup. If that's okay, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u137	I'm just looking at Mrs. Chicken to see if she can agree with that interpretation. Mrs. Kuik, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u138	It's not just me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u139	I don't think you're good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u140	I'm standing on it with my full weight on it, on that button.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u141	Yeah, you're hearing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u142	And I'm not that light. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u143	I'm sorry to hear that, but I can't hear you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u144	This is kind of embarrassing. I understand that if you go to the Hague Rugby Club for a carnival, that's not the point. I think we get each other very well. That was about chocolate and AA drink. You can have a toast with curry, too. Then we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u145	We will incorporate this text one-on-one into the scheme. I'm sure that makes it very easy to enforce. Then the motion to part No. 1429. I do not respond, as it should, to the "pronouncing," but to the requests. First of all, the mp clearly indicated that leaks occur, sometimes by accident and sometimes on purpose. It happens and it's not always traceable where it comes from, but it's bloody irritating. It is not good in the provision of information to the Chamber, it is not helpful at all in the public communication and it is also not good for all kinds of other reasons. However, it is not always possible to prevent this from happening, and that is the honesty that I think we should have in this regard, because you also have discussions with third parties and with other stakeholders prior to decision-making. You can't come to decision-making in splendor isolation. In short, the danger of leakage is always lurking. We have experienced at about every decision-making moment that it works that way, and that is not always preventable. We just need that honesty. We must, however, do the best we can to provide the Chamber with information. That's what we're trying to do. It seems complicated to me to promise that other press conferences will only take place after a debate in the Chamber. That means that public communication is going to take place via a letter of inquiry, and I just don't think that can be done very well. So I get it. I fully understand the intention of the motion, but I think that on the text of the motion I can only discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mrs Westerveld on her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u147	Public communication can be done by means of a press conference, but after the debate in the Chamber. One problem we have now is that the Cabinet decides something and the Chamber then wants something else. Then we are faced with a rather difficult decision, because if we want it to be different, it has been communicated to all the people in the Netherlands for a long time. So let's say Mr Wilders' motion is adopted. Then that means that people in the Netherlands first hear the one and then a total turn is made. As a result, I think we are too often standing as a chamber with our backs against the wall. The decision-making process is made difficult. I propose that we turn that around so that we, as a Chamber, can jointly decide with the cabinet how to proceed. We have, of course, also included in the motion that it should apply if there is no urgent urgency. So if something happens and something has to happen as a matter of urgency, please hold the press conference. But if that's not necessary, it's best to get all the information through the Chamber first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u148	I'm gonna have to doubt that anyway. If, for example, we had not held the press conference last Tuesday, but we had sent the letter, then of course it is not the case that the media wait until the debate on the House has taken place. Of course it isn't. So there is going to be all kinds of coverage, with one handicap: that we have not been able to explain, as a cabinet, why we are proposing to the Chamber what we are doing. Everyone understands, of course, that the Chamber is in charge at the end of the day. So let's say the Chamber says, no, cabinet, we actually thought things had to be different. Then, of course, that is the new reality. So I don't think there's much else we can do than this. In an ideal world, you might want it all different, but I don't think there's much else to do than this. The same story applies to the letters of the Chambers. The point is, you can't hold a press conference in the middle of the night. Then most people sleep with a normal life, and that's very good. We are often busy until midnight to make such a letter when the decision-making took place in the morning. The motion in part No. 1430 is about the saliva tests. If I may add that, of course, the validation study must be awaited, then please leave the judgement to the Chamber. Because those validation studies are ongoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u149	I see Mrs Westerveld nodding, so she agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u150	Motion in part No. 1431 belongs to Mrs Bikker. He says: leave it alone and ask the OMT what they see as a good alternative. Well, the OMT has advised extremely loudly and clearly on this in the OMT recommendation that is now before us. The alternative is to maintain 1.5 meters. If you don't want to, the alternative is the use of corona tickets. That is what the OMT said and that asking again does not lead to any other advice. In fact, the OMT also recommends a much wider use of those corona tickets. So I don't think that's helping you. At the most, it underpins the choice made by the cabinet. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1432 is about extra effort in vulnerable neighbourhoods. I would very much like to leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. Much of what you share in that motion is actually happening. In the motion in part No. 1433 calls on the government to never discriminate against minors. Well, we shouldn't discriminate, of course. I say to Mr Baudet: you know the law, of course. That law states that if this is to be introduced into education, it cannot be done in basic education and at most in MBO and HBO. And you're gonna have to back that up separately in an AMvB. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion. In the motion in part No. 1434 the government is urged to pay particular attention to corona in Europe and in the world in press conferences. I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber, but I would like to say 'when relevant'. I do not know whether there would be any need for an enormous consideration of me there every time. But when it's relevant, you certainly have to do so, for example when it comes to donations and so on. Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u151	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Gündoğan. Does she agree with the comments? Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u152	In the motion in part No. 1435 the government is asked to ask the OVV et cetera. I'm not gonna do that. The Prime Minister has explained that this is not our role. We simply cannot do that, because then we simply sit on a very wrong chair. The OVV is independent. I don't recommend that motion. The motion in part No. 1436 deals with the commitment to rapid access to serological tests. I'm going to ask the petitioners to hold the motion before putting it to the vote. I would really like to wait and see the OMT's investigation, to know whether it also provides a comparable level of reliability, which makes this possible. So I'm in favour; I've already said that. I just can't say yes to that right now. I'll just have to wait and see if I can actually do it. So if you'd like to hold the motion, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u153	I'll take a look at Mrs. Pouw-Verweij. Is she willing to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u154	We were actually hoping to put a little pressure on the OMT with this motion, so we would like to leave the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u155	That's okay, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u156	The OMT is independent, isn't it? The OMT isn't under any pressure. But then I'm gonna do it differently. If you leave the motion, I will leave the judgment to the Chamber, but then I will interpret it in such a way that, of course, we will only do so if there really is a comparable reliability with antigen tests. Because otherwise you would make the entire system of corona access tickets unreliable by this addition, and you don't want that either. So if it's sufficiently reliable, then... I'll add such a dance element in my interpretation, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u157	I see Mrs Pouw-Verweij nodding that she agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u158	Hard negotiating this, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 1437. That's a speech-out, so I don't have to say anything about that. Then the motion to part No. 1438: an approach plan for medicines. Yes, I say to the operative part regarding the use of antiviral medicines, but a plan of action is so bureaucratic. If they're available, we're gonna buy them and then we're gonna bet them. That's how we should do it, I guess, without a plan of action. If I may explain the motion in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u159	I would also like to look at Mr Stoffer: can he agree with this interpretation? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u160	The motion in part No. I do not recommend 1439 when referring to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1440 about never having your own contribution. I can't say. I can say that at this stage it seems very undesirable. In a narrower application of corona tickets, if we were to be a few months further, I can imagine that again. So I think I'm really deceiving this motion. The motion in part No. 1441 is a speech-exmotion, so I have no judgment on that. The motion in part No. 1442 is also a speech-exmotion, so I have no judgment on that either. An opinion, but I'm gonna keep it in front of me for a while. The motion in part No. 1443 I must advise against referring to the debate. We really need to take it one step at a time. On the motion in part No. 1444 on the support package, I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it should be about the design of aid measures in the fourth quarter for nighthoreca and also for other catering companies which are threatened by the closure after 24:00 p.m., because that is the point, you have to get into a lot of trouble, because otherwise it will be a very wide package of measures that I can leave to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u161	I'm just looking at Mrs. Den Haan, who I think is nodding. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u162	Then the motion to part No. 1445: Exclude 13 to 19. I do not think we can do that, because they do play an important role in the dissemination. That's the point, of course, that's what you want to slow down with those corona tickets, that's the goal. That's why I have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 1446: test within half an hour travel time. In fact, I would like to leave that to the Chamber because I agree. I actually think half an hour is a good time, if I can make it "by car." If it's with the bike, I don't know if it's going to work out, but with the car I think it's actually a logical time. In most places in the Netherlands, I would rather have it even closer, but we are working on that. We talked about this very well. I understand your question very well. Mrs De Vries was also so in it, Mrs Van den Berg was so in it and Mrs Westerveld was so in it: it should just be close to home; no white spots on the map.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u163	I see Mrs Van der Plas nodding too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u164	Then the motion to part No. 1447: Foot-nose masks required in healthcare settings. I know what you mean. What we want, in any case, from the same point of view, namely that vulnerable people can participate again when the 1.5 metres are lifted, is to give the same advice to general practitioners or, for example, to policies, where vulnerable people come and cannot stay away. Alone, like this? Then I'm really gonna prescribe what healthcare institutions do. They just have their own guidelines. That is why I would like to leave this to a professional judgment, in which they will say: with people coming to the police, because there you are within 1.5 meters of each other. But for people in, for example, a disability care institution, you do not want that, because that is where you want care to be as normal as possible. Let's just keep following the professional guidelines. I therefore advise against this motion. Then, in the outdoors, no CTB. That's the motion in part No. 1448. It goes too far, because then you can't do any more events. The cabinet has just indicated that it wants to move along on the terraces. Then the motion to part No. 1449, which requests the Government to examine whether the 180-day deadline can be extended. I think that's wise. That's what I want myself to do. I am now a little stuck with the European regulation that says 180 days, but I think we should see if we can extend that period. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u165	There is a question from Mrs Simons, BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u166	I would like to thank the Minister for his appreciation of the motion in part No. 1447. To some extent, I can also find myself in this dilemma. That's why I'm holding the motion. It might be wise to see if we can adjust her in such a way that we can especially specify those specific locations that the minister has just mentioned... Well, it might be wise to see if we can specify the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u167	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u168	At the request of Mrs Simons, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1447). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u169	Then the motion to part No. 1450, which calls on the government to invest money in scaling up its ic capacity. We've already done that with half a billion dollars. That's why I advise against this motion as such. Then I have some answers to the questions that have been asked. The VVD says that they actually want national coverage and that the Wadden Islands should also be included. I very much share the need for fineness and rural coverage. If you look at the card, you will see that this is already quite the case, but I think we can really take another step forward. Whether it is really possible to get a test site out of the ground on every Wadden Island depends very much on the extent to which tests are used. For two, three or four tests it's really inefficient, but I'm gonna see how we could do it as finely as possible. I made that commitment to you, but also to Mrs Van der Plas, Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u170	I understand very well that a whole test site cannot be demolished, but I would like to ask for consultation with the municipalities and the entrepreneurs there to find a practical solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u171	Yeah, you can do that right there. I think so, too. I'd love to. Did you mention Zeeland-Flanders?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u172	I had already mentioned Zeeland-Flanders, and I referred to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u173	Very good. I think that Zeeuws-Vlaanderen should be mentioned in every debate, so here we are. Then the mobile test canisters. Mobile capacity is running in an Open House, I say in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg. We expect it to be properly registered. I'll let you know, of course. Then the Lollipop tests. They inspire Mrs. Kuik to sing a song. I love that, of course. They're really nice developments. I will also let you know whether these tests have indeed been validated enough to actually use them. Through Mrs Westerveld's motion and through a commitment to you, I have said that we will proceed as soon as they are sufficiently validated. Then the bottlenecks in vaccination abroad to get a DCC. That needs to be solved. On the basis of the Regulation, the country where vaccination was carried out should issue a DCC. There are signs that that doesn't always work. We are already talking about this with other Member States. I am, of course, willing to see what the Netherlands can do to fix the troubles itself. Then Mrs. "Van Es," or is it "Van Esch"? How you pronounce it remains a little mystical. You probably know it yourself, but it's being used interchangeably, I'm just gonna see it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u174	I understand it's "Van Es."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u175	"From Es"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u176	Yes, correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u177	You stayed so nicely; it's just Mrs. "Van Es."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u178	'Cause I'm really good at names.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u179	Yes. You already had the Bekedam report on 6 July. That was offered to your room. I gave it a first appreciation at the time, or actually Mr Van Ark did so at the time. It also indicated the steps that would be taken to reach a plan of action. The cabinet uses this period to engage with all kinds of stakeholders. At the end of the year, we want to come up with a real plan of action. It is, of course, a very comprehensive report with many recommendations. It is also very related to the plan of approach on pandemic preparedness. We really want to find coherence in that. In addition, we would also like to involve some evaluation of the approach to the crisis. That is why we say that at the end of the year we want to come up with a plan of action. In fact, at the G20, I raised it with my fellow Members. I also believe that the EU's plans on pandemic preparation should focus on zoonoses and zoonotic transmission. That's why we mentioned it there. That was part of your request. I also sent your greetings to colleagues in the G20. Then there is Mrs De Vries' question about the troika. The troika informs your Chamber by letter about the support packages. Hopefully this will happen next week, but at least for the debate of the troika, in accordance with the request of the EZK permanent committee. Das war es.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u180	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u181	We are going to vote by roll call and then by group. I would like to thank the directors in trade union K, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I shall suspend for fifteen to twenty minutes because of the preparation, including the roll-call votes. I therefore suspend the sitting until 10.35 p.m.
