ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the own-initiative proposal 35296, the proposal for a law of members Koerhuis and Van Toorenburg amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the amendment of the judicial procedure for the assessment of the lawful entry into a home or local for the purpose of removing persons and objects found there, the law on the prohibition of cracking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing an initiative law today, at the last minute for the exchange of the House of Representatives. Taking an initiative takes a lot of time and effort, and comes on top of everything else in the Chamber. My group welcomes the use of the right of initiative by both initiators. And I would like to say straight away that I appreciate that, although my group is particularly critical of the content of the law. That is what we are, like the experts we have just heard and who were almost unanimous in their criticism. The bill aims to accelerate the criminal evacuation of cracked buildings. The initiators believe that the current procedure is taking too long. Instead of taking interim measures, the judge-supervisor is required to review an eviction order from the prosecutor within three days, after which immediate evacuation can be carried out. With this proposal, the initiators transferred a civil-law decision to criminal law. My group believes that they have not taken sufficient account of the legal system and the differences in safeguards in civil proceedings on the one hand and criminal proceedings on the other. Partly as a result of ECHR case law, the position of a suspect or complainant in the criminal proceedings is surrounded by safeguards. That's not for nothing. After all, in criminal law there is a large, powerful government, the public prosecutor, against an individual, the defendant. That is a very different situation from that of the interim proceedings, in which one citizen, the owner of the property, is opposed to the other citizen, the squatter. There is usually more or less "equality of arms." That is not the case in criminal law. In a court of law, that inequality is compensated by covering the position of the defendant or the complainant with guarantees, such as the right to see the file, to be heard, to attend the hearing, and the right to legal aid by a lawyer. The proposal does not regulate any of these elements and therefore does not take sufficient account of all these rights of the squatters. When I look at the answers of the initiators and also at the examination of the proposal in the House of Representatives, the reasoning of the initiators seems to be: cracking is so serious and a breach of the property owner's right to property, that a stripped-out procedure is justified. After all, I read that initiator Van Toorenburg in the Lower House says: "Is this three-day period sufficient? Sure, because they can also walk into a building in one day and crack the place." But that's not the rule of law, is it? Then a shoplifter who strikes in three minutes could also be convicted in three minutes. Of course, it doesn't work that way. We live in the rule of law and if a decision has to be taken by the Judge Commissioner within the criminal justice framework, then the procedure leading to this must be sound. My group believes that a judicial decision will only have legitimacy if the procedure has been careful. For what is the value of a judgment if a suspect has not been granted legal aid or has not been able to see his own file? My group believes that the proposal does not take sufficient account of these guarantees. My group also understands where it comes from. The initiators want to speed up, but the question is whether this is possible in criminal law. It is not for nothing that the rapid procedure, the fastest of its kind, takes place in 17 days. The initiators want a substantive decision within 72 hours, but can they do so in criminal law? The initiators say that with those 72 hours they sought connection with the 72 hours used for the insurance of a suspect, the decision of the rc. But they are overlooking an important element. The procedure for insurance is surrounded by all kinds of safeguards. It's legal. As soon as someone's incarcerated, a lawyer is assigned. It's been arranged that the lawyer and the suspect can see the file. The suspect is being led before the rc. All this is covered by the Code of Criminal Procedure. These legal safeguards are lacking in this proposal. The 72 hours have been copied, but not the frame around it. Where a suspect is automatically assigned a picket attorney at insurance, a squatter must look for a lawyer within those 72 hours. Where the picket lawyer can access the file automatically, the squatter's lawyer must go after the file. Where a suspect is arraigned to the rc, the squatter should hope that the rc reaches him in time. This proposal does not cover all this. A civil test has been passed in criminal law, without taking into account the safeguards applicable to criminal law. If you want to take those guarantees into account, a 72-hour procedure is simply too short. The initiators believe that the Council of State, which says that the 72-hour period in itself is not unreasonable. As far as my group is concerned, this sentence is taken out of context. The Council of State begins by pointing out a number of important safeguards, as I have just mentioned: the right to be heard, to see the file, the right to be present and the right to legal aid. The Council of State then says that it does not consider it impossible in advance for these guarantees to be implemented within 72 hours. In the meantime, however, we have heard from the enforcers of this law, the prosecution and the case-law, that they consider it impossible, within that period, that it cannot be done within that 72 hours with due regard for the safeguards. Then it'll take two to three weeks anyway. The question now is how these guarantees are met. What makes the initiators think that these guarantees are feasible within the 72 hours? What is their expectation based on? What experts have they spoken to who believe they can? Or is it more "it is what we want and so it should be possible" no matter what practice says? My group cannot convince that the government says that the procedure complies with Article 13 of the ECHR. The government talks about a duty of principle to hear and to hear legal aid if it so wishes. Those aren't tough safeguards. It is very doubtful whether the higher court agrees with this. Another substantive question about the test by the rc. Several parties have asked whether a marginal test by the rc is sufficient, if you want to meet the requirements of Article 13 ECHR. The answers of the initiators are inscrutable to my group. They claim that Article 13 ECHR is complied with because the review is now also taking place in an interim action and not in a substantive procedure. But that's not an answer to the question. At another time, the question of a marginal test is answered that the ruling does not have to be irrevocable. But that is not an answer to the question either. If the initiators then explain what the marginal key of the rc means, we are completely lost. They say: the rc will have to assess whether there is sufficient ground for suspicion under Article 138, 138a or 139 Criminal law and whether there are facts or circumstances that make recourse to a squatter's house law in the specific case outweigh the enforcement of the squatter's ban. But that's a full test. A marginal test means that a judge does not judge the content of the decision itself, but only determines whether the decision has been properly made. So my question is again: what should the rc do now? The initiators seem to confuse marginal tests, full of tests, the ground procedure, the provisional provision and whether or not a judgment is irrevocable. I'd like a clear answer from the initiators. I'll make it concrete. In what way should the rc test: full or marginal? If the answer is "full," is there enough time for a full balance of interests? If the answer is "marginal," what decision should he make? Is there an effective brake within the meaning of Article 13 of the ECHR? I would like a thorough answer from the initiators and the minister. Can they also include the 2011 Hoge Raad's squatters' judgment and, in particular, the requirements relating to the procedure, in particular the requirement for that procedure to be thorough? I'm closing up. The proposal is aimed at speed, but that acceleration can only be achieved if you violate a number of fundamental rights. My group believes that you should not want that. If you do take those rights into account and the rc ensures that the squatters are summoned in time so that they can get a lawyer and be heard, then you will soon arrive at a procedure that lasts two or three weeks, all the parties that have to implement the law say. There will then be no time savings compared to the current situation, because it will take two to three weeks to complete. We heard all the experts explain this very clearly two weeks ago. In this case, the proposal does not have any added value, whereas it significantly increases the workload, both for the public prosecutor and for the case-law. They indicate that this is as high as 230% and 1370% respectively. Don't get me wrong. Of course, my group is also in favour of effective enforcement of criminal law, but always with respect for the Constitution and the fundamental rights enshrined in the ECHR. This proposal is not sufficiently thought out and does not meet both thresholds. I will therefore advise my group to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the initiative proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Van Toorenburg, which provides for a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which shortens the period between the announcement of evacuation and the actual evacuation of cracked buildings. The initiators propose a legal procedure whereby the judge-supervisor is given the power to authorise the prosecutor within 72 hours, allowing the prosecutor to order investigators to evacuate. Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group knows, like no other, that there is currently a society-distorting housing shortage. This is partly due to the so-called nitrogen crisis and mass immigration, but that should never be an excuse to crack illegal premises, with all the consequences. Kraken is a crime under Article 138, 138a or 139 of the Code of Criminal Law, but it seems as if this is sometimes forgotten by some. Cracking seriously violates property rights, and in many cases, property owners are burdened with unsolicited costs, which they cannot claim anywhere. Insurance companies often stop the policy immediately, so that any damage to the property is no longer covered. Kraken often goes hand in hand with destruction as well as theft and often also results in a decay of the environment, drug trafficking and other activities that cannot bear the light of day. The PVV therefore welcomes this initiative proposal, as shortening the legal procedure is likely to limit the damage to the property owners and preventative effect of the legislative proposal, which will slow down residential carousel practices. Mr. Chairman. As has just been outlined, the squatting of buildings is a serious social problem, and unfortunately there have also been some examples of squatting lately. For example, you can read on the website indymedia.nl that there were recent squatting activities in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. But also further away from home, in Berlin, capital of Germany, there are currently actions going on around the Rigaer94 building, which has been cracked by left-wing extremists. What does this case have to do with squatting in our country? Well, squatters' networks are often organised internationally, so there is a chance that when this large-scale building is evacuated in Berlin, the squatters will seek their salvation in the Netherlands, for example in Amsterdam. That is why this initiative legislative proposal is also of added value. Mr. Chairman. You have already referred to it: there was an expert meeting on this subject on 9 March. Ms Van Aert, prosecutor at the District Attorney's office in Amsterdam, noted that the investigative capacity of the prosecutor, the police and the judiciary is currently scarce and that choices should therefore be made. A similar sound came from Mr Van der Poel, Managing Director of VLB Nederland. He indicated that enforcement in practice is a matter of capacity and priority, even if legislation is optimised. A worrying case, not only with regard to tackling squatting activities, but also with regard to the fight against crime in general. Mr. Chairman. The core task of the First Chamber is to assess the quality of legislation for legality, feasibility and enforcement. In practice, feasibility and enforcement prove to be quite a stumbling block. In many cases this is due to excessive workload and/or a shortage of capacity in the police, prosecutors and the judiciary. The Minister's letter of 18 March last states that a more detailed justification of the workload and the consequences for other legal proceedings is difficult to give now and in anticipation of the evaluation. The PVV regrets this and also assumes that this will have a prominent place in the evaluation, as well as the other possible undesirable side effects identified at the abovementioned expert meeting. Our group therefore supports the recommendation to bring forward the evaluation of the legislative proposal. An early evaluation is now on the agenda after three years, but since the nature of the potential negative effects could be more likely, for example after one or two years, as far as PVV is concerned. Are the initiators open to that? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. Mr Nicolaï, on behalf of the Animal Party, has another interruption for you, Mrs Bezaan, so if you will stand still, I give the floor to Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u7	Your group had already raised the issue of capacity problems in the questions. You will now return to that point. You mentioned feasibility. You say that your group is going to vote in favour of this law. But let's say that it turns out that the D.A. is saying that we are going to go from 30% to 100% and others are saying that there is going to be much more work than without this proposal. The Minister's letter does not show any additional capacity. So what is your group's position on voting for a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u8	As far as we're concerned, it's very simple. In fact, there appears to be a capacity problem on several levels. Perhaps this Minister is saying that there will be no additional capacity, but that is something we are fighting for anyway. We want more blue and the capacity to be increased at the state's attorney's office. The moment we give up that fight, I might as well go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u9	That wasn't my question. The question is as follows. If it is not established that there will be more capacity, you are fighting for it, but there is no commitment from the Minister and there is no provision for the proposal from the initiators that there will be more capacity. You can't deny that, can you? I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u10	As far as I understand it, I have to say that there are four possibilities for this procedure to take place, and the short-term action disappears through the Court of Justice of the European Communities and therefore a new emergency procedure is introduced. Those other three legs, that's what I call them, so just stand there for a second. So I have to say honestly, I don't see your problem that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u12	I do not have such a problem; I think your group has a problem, because you say that there should be more capacity. There isn't, and there isn't, but unless you can prove to me that it's not established, it's certain that there's going to be a lot more work for the D.A.'s office. Well, then we've got a problem with execution, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mrs. Bezaan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u14	I've understood from the pieces I don't know by heart and I don't have it ready here that there were about 30 extra cases that would take more time. Maybe I'm playing games with that, but I have to say that I still don't think it's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr President, thank you. I would like to begin by complimenting the proposers. An initiative proposal is not easy and requires a lot of applicants and employees. So it's a good thing you did this. The reason for writing an initiative proposal is variable. I quote from an article by the newspaper Trouw dated 11 March: "Room members have a preference for topical, socially relevant topics, sometimes driven by personal experience or emotion. CDA-Kamerlid Madeleine van Toorenburg started 'out of sheer annoyance' about the squatting actions of activists of action group We Are Here in 2018 on a bill for enforcement of the squatting ban, together with VVD'er Daniel Koerhuis. 'I thought they were burglars, and I was pissed that Minister Ollongren of the Interior kept getting rid of the problem'. My first question to the initiators is, therefore, how has it been with the sheer annoyance and the envy towards the Minister of the Interior, when the approach by the government, the police and the prosecutor has changed dramatically in recent years compared to the situation when the annoyance arose. Mr. Chairman. The expert meeting held by this Chamber on 9 March confirmed the doubts expressed by the SP about this initiative proposal. The written response by the initiators and the cabinet has not yet been able to remove that doubt. The initiative proposal aims to speed up, through criminal law, the evacuation of cracked premises while maintaining minimum required guarantees. That's where the shoe just pinched. The own-initiative proposal proposes that the Court of Justice should carry out the civil judicial review that is currently being carried out by the Court of Justice in an authorisation procedure which takes up to 72 hours in criminal law. That is at the heart of the current initiative proposal. However, all the signals we get from practice about the feasibility of an important review criterion for this Chamber of what this initiative proposal aims to achieve are downright negative. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the Council for Justice, the lawyer and the Association of Dutch Municipalities all say: don't do this, because this is not going to work in practice. The VNG says it will lead to less efficiency, more workload in the police, prosecutors and the judiciary and less possibilities for tailor-made work. Enforcement is not improved and is at the expense of enforcement capacity on other issues, the UNG says. The applicants say in their reply that they see it differently. The cabinet stated that it could not form an opinion and has therefore, in order to be sure, called for an accelerated evaluation after three years. The cabinet does not want to respond to the negative opinions and says, quite translated: ask the proposers. So here's the deal. Why do the proposers persist in their own right, now that it is shown in practice that it is not going to work for various reasons, as they intend to do with this initiative proposal? If the people who have to do it say that it will not be possible if the proposers want it, then it must give thought. The Public Prosecutor's Office states that this initiative proposal will lead to a huge increase in the administrative burden for the Public Prosecutor. In all cases, other than in practice, a dossier must be drawn up. From the written answer it seems that the applicants think that this can be done with a minimum file that can serve the marginal test, but this is about criminal law that is really subject to other safeguards. Criminal law, by definition, requires care and the requirements of criminal law are high. The Public Prosecutor correctly noted at the expert meeting that the Judge Commissioner would make strong demands on the file. A number of inserts will not suffice. I know that the political parties of the proposers are normally keen on administrative burdens, but this initiative proposal will lead to a huge increase in administrative burdens, not only for the police, but also for the prosecutor and for the court. And now the D.A.'s office only makes files when there's been an interim injunction, which is only 30% of the cases. I have already referred to the fact that this approach has changed considerably in recent years since the annoyance started, but it will have to be 100%. Those are all matters that a judge will have to judge later. This also means a significant increase in judicial decisions. The D.A. charged us with this at the expert meeting. I would like a response from the initiators to this huge increase in the administrative burden that will result from this proposal. Following consultation of the courts, an exceptional, very negative legislative opinion was issued from the Court of Justice with the conclusion to waive the legislative proposal. This is an opinion that the Council rarely gives, as we heard at the expert meeting. The core of the Council's criticism is that there are serious doubts about the usefulness, necessity and feasibility of this proposal. And that's a firm criticism from the board. I have to say that I can follow that criticism very well. In practice, the judge-supervisor will not be able to take a decision within three days as this initiative proposes, given the requirements of criminal procedure. The Public Prosecutor must prepare the progress and the file must be compiled. Squatters will also have to be called up and heard, and legal aid should also be possible. The judge-supervisor must make a decision that must also be carefully documented, and that assessment cannot be marginal because it is also a matter of house law. The Supreme Court already ruled in 2011 that an evacuation has irreversible consequences for the squatter. We were rightly reminded by the Court of Justice. That means the judge's commissioner will have to do a full test. On this point, I also agree with the questions put by Mr Veldhoen, because it seems as if legal marginal and speaking marginal are mixed up here. The balance between the owner's right of ownership and the squatter's house law will have to comply with the requirements of Article 13 ECHR. The choice of the proposers is clear to me, but ultimately it is really in a careful procedure for the judge-supervisor to pass a full test. I cannot imagine that careful consideration under Article 13 of the ECHR will be possible within 72 hours. The Council of State has also stressed this point. In practice, however, this proposal for an initiative will not be able to do so. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The intention of the applicants has certainly become clear from the initiative proposal, the explanation thereof, the examination in the Lower House and the answer to the written questions: evacuations must be speeded up. But all signals from practice are turned to red. The people of practice say: it is getting slower, more expensive, more complex and more uncertain. That cannot be the purpose of this initiative proposal. In their response to the opinion of the Council of State, the proposers say that it is important that this proposal be adopted in order to effectively enforce the ban on cracking. But that is precisely according to the practice that this proposal does not lead to. The cabinet says they can't judge this in advance. And I don't understand that. If all the partners in the chain send the same negative signal, then the cabinet must also light a light. I would therefore ask the Minister to respond now to the signals of the Public Prosecutor, the Council for Justice, the legal profession and the VNG. The cabinet also has its own responsibility and cannot hide behind the proposers. How can the cabinet make a positive assessment of this initiative proposal, heard all the signals and objections expressed in practice? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the proposers whether the practice has now come to an end with pure annoyance and envy. After all, the approach has been thoroughly adapted, as I have just pointed out. I am, of course, looking forward to answering the questions, but I would like to remind the proposers that no one, and certainly not the owners of cracked buildings, will benefit if it becomes slower, more expensive, more complex and insecure in practice. If that is already predictable, then it should also lead the proposers to a moment of review, no matter how prestigious it is to write the initiative law in your name in Trouw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u17	The administrative burden was also raised in the debate with Mrs Bezaan. The VVD Group also has questions about this. I've been looking it up for a while. Based on figures from the Office itself, this new methodology would lead to 22 additional sessions throughout the year in 2019 and 33 additional sessions in 2018. How do you estimate that extra burden?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u18	The additional burden was outlined by the Office in particular at the expert meeting. In the meantime, the procedure that caused the annoyance has changed radically; that is what the prosecution has also said. Together with the triangle in the Amsterdam example, the D.A. has chosen a different method of effective action, which means that only 30% of the cases are subject to interim proceedings. But we will have to build up a file in 100% of the cases first. If we look at the care to be taken by the Judge Commissioner, this will create an enormous additional workload, not only for the cases that are actually being held. In all cases a file will have to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u19	The numbers I just mentioned are the 100% that's on top of it. If you look at the difference between the old and the new situation, then it's actually about dozens of cases. I agree with you, which has also been stated by the public prosecutor that we must have a good dossier. Then the question is, how much time does that take? But the number of cases is actually limited. That is why I ask you once again how you estimate that burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u20	I still estimate that, if this leads to an increase in administrative burdens, how many things will be in the future because there will be higher demands on the files, and even if that were the case in dozens of cases, it means that in dozens of cases, additional capacity will be put behind the Bureau rather than those people can actually take part in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u21	In the end, the expectations of the initiators are that, by putting the pressure on it now as a preventive effect, there will eventually be less cracking and thus fewer cases. So that number would still go down. So the question is how do you weigh that extra load? Isn't the investment in the front not worth it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u22	I give everyone their own reality, but I listen to the people in practice. I am not referring to the reality of the Hague but to the reality that was presented to us at the expert meeting. It gives me an idea that is sufficient reason for me to doubt this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm noticing some kind of legality by now. The bigger the compliments to the initiators for taking their initiative, the harder the criticism later in the contributions. I too will start with a compliment; that should not surprise me. So a word of thanks to the initiators and the staff for the quick answer of the questions. In addition, I appreciate the use of the right of initiative. This requires energy, courage and perseverance, not least in terms of depth and knowledge. I hope that the new House of Representatives will be inspired, among other things, by this law in order to continue to shape the substantive side of Parliament's membership. My group is not satisfied with the answers to the questions to the government. They're below par. Of some kind of reverse dualism in initiative laws, a government that looks at initiative laws benevolently but also critically as a co-legislator does not seem to be present here, as the minister hardly argues away from the clear advice of OM and ZM not to adopt this law. The debate on squatting is often conducted on ideological lines: housing shortage versus property law, left to right. Although the current housing shortage is one of the most urgent social problems, today I will not seek that ideological difference with the initiators, but just the other, perhaps more important for the First Chamber, content of the legislative proposal. What about the quality, efficiency and feasibility of the law? This section also received a great deal of attention in the written round of questions. My group has serious concerns on this point. The core of the bill is to take the judge's clearance test out of civil law in advance and to place it in criminal law, with the aim of saving time. According to the initiators, the court commissioner in criminal matters will be able to issue a decision to evacuate within three days. This should be possible because the rc only requires a marginal key and only a limited number of data is required for that key, similar to giving permission for a phone tap or search. The question is whether this is true; other speakers have also referred to it. First of all, it is contested by the representatives of the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but let us also see for ourselves what is actually behind that marginal or full test by the welfare court. For that purpose, I sought a ruling from the amenities judge Amsterdam of 1 April 2019. I quote: "As a result of Article 8 (1) of the ECHR, squatters are entitled to a house right under which they can submit to the Court of Justice a proposed decision on the clearance of interim proceedings. (...) The proportionality requirement laid down in Article 8.2 of the ECHR implies that the Court of Justice has to examine whether the primacy given by the legislature in abstracto to the importance of public policy and the protection of third parties' rights over the squatter's house law can, in concrete circumstances, pass the proportionality test." In this case, the proportionality test was in favour of the squatters, because the property had been empty for many years, even after an earlier evacuation, and the owner's word that the property was now to be rented out was not believed by the judge, partly because the most basic questions to the owner could not be answered. For this balancing of interests, the judge must not only be presented with the basic facts by the police or the prosecutor, but can also question and test these facts with the parties involved, including the owner. Moreover, he, but more often she, must motivate that balance. How's the judge chief gonna do this in three days? Parties should be summoned and be able to deliver productions prior to their hearing. The judge-supervisor's test does not seem to be comparable at all to that of the telephone tap or search, but requires an active and therefore time-consuming examination of the rc. You can hang the signs from the amenities court to the rc, but if you do not fundamentally change the key yourself, this will not save time. If you change the test fundamentally, I do not understand the initiators, it is contrary to the ECHR and can still be approached as a judge. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, with the judge and the prosecutor, I fear that the time that we are looking for is to be saved by wishful thinking. Can the initiators, but certainly also the minister, confirm this, then explain where my reasoning, according to them, is flawed? Mr. Chairman. The proportionality test is new to the rc. The argument of the initiators that cracking is punishable and that therefore the balancing of house law against the other rights logically belongs in criminal law does not apply. This test is traditionally done by the amenities court and fits in well with procedural and content, but you can of course arrange it in such a way that the rc will do so in the future. But how desirable is this? Criminal law is chronically overloaded. Many very serious matters remain in the closet due to lack of capacity. In addition, criminal law has a procedure characterised by many safeguards; think of the requirements of summoning or the right to remain silent. Again, I refer to the experts who fear that the entire criminal justice chain would be substantially more heavily taxed from police to courts. In addition, it is not the current 30% of evacuations that are subject to judicial review after 48 hours, but 100%. That might be nice for the squatters, but not very efficient. My group asks the Minister whether he thinks that the choice to exchange the civil courts for the criminal justice system and to impose even more burdens on the criminal justice chain is a good one. Mr. Chairman. The key for the rc is decided. Can the Minister promise that, in his consultation with the caselaw, he would endeavour to ensure that decisions of the rc on this point will be published as soon as possible on case law.nl, for the sake of openness and testability? I shall leave it to these important points for my group. The conclusion is that a careful test takes time, no matter what judge executes it. Once again from the experts, we have understood that in 2019 the policy has been adapted in such a way that precisely that time savings have already been made within the current procedure and that as a result there is no longer a squatter's carousel. Perhaps this has been done under the threat of this initiative law. Then that is the success of the initiative. However, effective implementation of the law now seems to achieve exactly the opposite of what is intended, namely no time savings and a more burdensome criminal justice chain, which is not well equipped on this test. That's why we shouldn't use him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to express my appreciation to both Members of Parliament, Mr Koerhuis, Mr VVD and Mr Van Toorenburg, CDA, for the fact that they have tabled an initiative legislative proposal. It has been adopted by the House of Representatives and now they are defending it in the Senate. That requires perseverance. It will also, I think, be the last time that we have Mrs Van Toorenburg among us in her capacity as a Member of Parliament. I know her as a very passionate MP. Let's move on to the bill. The aim is to combat squatting as a criminal housing model by speeding up the enforcement of the squatting ban. In their proposal, squatting cases should be brought by the Public Prosecutor to the Judge Commissioner in criminal matters. The judge commissioner will decide within three days. The appeal of the squatters against an eviction decision has no suspensive effect and the role of the owner is limited to making a declaration. For the rest, the government must act through the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the municipal administration. It has already been mentioned by others: the bill was drafted after quite a few buildings were cracked in Amsterdam, evacuated, after which the same squatting group, We Are Here, cracked a next building. Some call this a squatter's carousel. In itself annoyance after cracking a property is understandable, because the squatters take possession of a property that is not theirs, they infringe property rights and after evacuation often it appears that the property has been damaged and that the owner often stays with the damage, because the squatters often offer no story. But this understandable annoyance becomes less as far as I am concerned as a building is empty longer without it being quickly exploited by or on behalf of the owner. However, a few years ago, cracking became a crime and was included in Article 138 of the Criminal Code. The legislative proposal aims to accelerate the handling of a squat in order to better protect the owner. But, Mr President, it is the task of the First Chamber to understand legislative proposals and to see if they meet standards of rule of law, enforcement and feasibility. Then I would like to recall the Van Dam Committee, which examined the supplementing affair on behalf of the House of Representatives. That committee has indicated that legislation resulting from emotions is at risk of not meeting all these quality standards. Mr Janssen has already indicated that the Trouw interview showed that annoyance was actually a basis for writing this bill. I'm afraid annoyance is not a good basis for filing a bill. For D66 it is relevant that the city administration of Amsterdam and the Public Prosecutor's Office, after the squatters of that group We Are Here, have strengthened the enforcement of the squatting ban. Working arrangements have been made with the court and the city administration, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the lawyer are satisfied with this. The number of squatting actions has fallen enormously, by as much as 80% in 2019. Emergency evacuations by the Public Prosecutor's Office are now possible in the current system, but they fall into the proposed system of initiators. Instead, the procedure will be with the judge commissioner. My first question to the initiators is: why is this bill still needed? What is the other problem that has to be solved by this route? The bill has been submitted for advice to the Council of State, but also to the Council of Justice, the Public Prosecutor, the VNG, the Dutch Order of Lawyers. All these advisory bodies, also chain partners, react negatively and advise the First Chamber to reject the bill. That is why the First Chamber held an expert meeting on 9 March. It was striking that none of the experts supported the bill as it was legally designed. In fact, the representatives of the D.A., the lawyer, urge the judges to reject the bill. In fact, the chairman of the national consultation of criminal courts said: "This negative opinion rarely gives the council." The experts deny the time savings. They argue that the bill is difficult to implement for the judge-supervisor
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr Dittrich's question to the initiators is: what is the point of this bill, now that agreements have been made in Amsterdam? I would like to point out to Mr Dittrich that the Netherlands is slightly larger than Amsterdam. There are now all kinds of pages on the internet with lists of all kinds of incidents of buildings being cracked. When I look at that, I see that quite recently, in the year 2020, ggz institutions suffer from this, housing corporations suffer from this. A building is cracked and further developments are in fact simply blocked. And a lot of damage is being done to these kinds of institutions. Do you think that's acceptable? Or do you say: well, I am ultimately concerned with that two or three-week period, and if it were to be taken over elsewhere in the country, then that would be reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u28	The statistics show that most of the squatting actions take place in Amsterdam. Amsterdam has taken measures to this end. There are also squatters in other parts of the Netherlands, even outside the Randstad, but there the Public Prosecutor knows how to act with the police and the municipal administration in an adequate way. That is why the situation in Amsterdam, in particular, has always been argued for or against this bill throughout the written preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u29	I am a bit opposed to that image, because it is clear that there is also a problem in other cities, including Utrecht, Tilburg, Eindhoven. I would just like to mention a few places that are really affected by this. Does Mr Dittrich think that this kind of agreement should be made there? Does he think that such a shorter period of three days is actually desirable in order to ensure that a corporation, a ggz institution, simply has freedom of action over its own property again, and that the damage to such institutions is also limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u30	We're discussing a bill here. I just said, as an MP, you need to see if a bill is a good one. We check that on the rule of law, on feasibility, on enforcement. I don't want to anticipate my conclusion yet, but we have serious concerns about that. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say that in the current construction the squatters themselves must take the initiative to bring an interim action after the Public Prosecutor has announced the evacuation. The infringement of the owner's right of ownership is therefore settled by civil law, whereby there is a balance of interest between the right of ownership and the house law of the squatters. The owner is a party to the proceedings and is actively involved in the substantive handling of the case, of course sometimes against his own will, because his property has been cracked. But the proposal of the initiators actually makes it easy for the squatters, because the Public Prosecutor's Office is now on the move and has to approach the Judge Commissioner in criminal matters. In principle, it has already been said by other speakers, all squatting cases will come before the criminal court, which, at its core, will have to weigh up civil law interests in a very short period of time. In addition, it appears that the procedure before the judge-supervisor in criminal matters is not public. I believe that transparency of the process is important for the acceptance of a judicial decision. That seems to be missing here. To D66's question why the initiators advocate a marginal review by the Judge Commissioner, and not the full review as advocated by the Court of Justice, they reply in the note following the report on pages 17 and 18 which follows from the case-law of the Supreme Court that the judgment should not be final. But full scrutiny is something else. It means that it is not marginal, but wide-ranging, to be examined after a thorough consideration of all relevant interests. 'Cause the judge chief isn't a stamp machine. The D66 group is therefore concerned that the choice of initiators for a three-day flashing process does indeed conflict with Article 13 of the ECHR, the right to an effective brake. The cause of cracking is the empty position of buildings and also housing shortage. We need to do something about that. Everyone will agree on that, I think. Even the term "self-inhabitation" has been mentioned in the treatment in the Lower House. I think that is, in some cases, highly desirable. The present proposal does not address that wider context of vacancy or friction void, so I will not do so here either. I would now like to confine myself to a number of questions to the Minister of Justice. In his letter to the First Chamber of 18 March, he stated that the three-day period complied with Article 13 of the ECHR. But the experts question that. The Minister also writes that he shares the concerns of the Council of State and the advisory bodies. He questioned with them whether the time savings mentioned in the initiative actually existed: "The robustness of the underpinning of the legislative proposal will have to be demonstrated in practice." Isn't it true, Minister, that a bill should have a solid foundation in any case? We can't take a chance on legislation, can we? On the need for the legislative proposal, the cabinet notes "that there is apparently no need for the exercise of powers at the moment. The phenomenon of the living carousel is no longer present." But doesn't the Minister just say that the bill is superfluous? And if a living carousel were to reappear in the future, would the current emergency evacuations be sufficient, as the experts explained to us at a meeting in this Chamber? That is not why we, Minister, do we need this initiative? On the subject of the full review, the Minister writes that the cabinet "confirms the Council's position on the case-law to the extent that the judge-supervisor must be able to adequately assess the proportionality of the evacuation in the specific case." Doesn't the Minister say here in so many words that marginal scrutiny is undesirable? The Minister writes that the effects of the workload shift are unclear. What does that do for trust in the rule of law? The Minister notes in his book The defenceless society that the whole justice chain is threatened with being crushed under the costs of, among other things, health care and that scarcity is a trump card. Doesn't that analysis show that squat evacuations are at the expense of police deployment anywhere else? And what does that do with the observation at the expert meeting that much more cases will come to the judge commissioner and that evacuations will therefore also require much more effort? The Minister writes that "the cabinet understands the fears expressed by the chain partners about the possible adverse effects of the bill." A little later he wrote: "The answer to the question of these members" by GroenLinks and the Labour Party "whether the substantive criticism of the chain partners and organisations should give cause to reconsider the bill and its usefulness and necessity, leave the cabinet to the discretion of the proposers." The Minister is here in this initiative procedure as an advisor to the Upper Chamber. Doesn't the sentences I just quoted just mean the Minister doesn't like the bill? I'd like a clear piece of advice. Mr President, I will conclude. My preliminary conclusion is that there are quite a few hooks and eyes on this bill. The chain partners reject it with the power of argument, partly because of the feasibility and shift from civil law to criminal law. The compatibility with Article 13 of the European Treaty may also be questioned. All in all, D66 is very concerned if this bill were to take power of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the authors of this initiative, Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mr. Chairman. The proposers find my party, JA21, square by their side when it comes to tackling cracking. I know from my work in the Amsterdam council poignant examples of squatters who, among other things, dup entrepreneurs. The low point in the past two years was perhaps the crack of the outlawed illegals of We Are Here Mr.Dittrich just recalled the fact that he occupied a building of the entrepreneur Salih Ozcan. That's the building he had put in place for his company. Ozcan was worked out by the squatters using their rights and remained behind with a destroyed interior and a towering bill. Mr. Chairman. It is not acceptable to enforce housing in this way. We would therefore like to see legislation that makes it as difficult as possible for these burglars to crack. That is why we appreciate this initiative very much, but we regret to note that this initiative proposal may not be the firm and helpful one that JA21 is certainly in favour of. Last week's expert meeting reinforced this doubt. Mr. Chairman. There are many questions with my group. Some of them have already been made by speakers before me, so I will try to avoid duplication. First, the applicants clarify the new procedure in a schematic table in the explanatory memorandum. With regard to the feasibility of this procedure within the proposed time limit, the initiators note that they do not consider a 72-hour period to be unreasonable. In current practice, the duration of the interim proceedings is on average between three and almost eight weeks. With this bill it should in principle be three days, but I do not support it. Is this a wish of the initiators? Is this the optimal scenario or can they make it a three-day deadline? In a situation with complex or extensive dossiers, we do not think that this time limit is feasible. The initiators rightly point out, as I pointed out in my introduction, the suffering of owners of cracked buildings in response to the RvS' concerns regarding the possible violation of house law, the proportionality test. Is the draft law capable of resisting a possible judicial review of whether the new procedure is at odds with Article 13 of the ECHR, which has already been mentioned by Mr Dittrich, and of course you can expect this to be done, as well as other procedural safeguards? Of course, it's a bit of a lawyer-of-the-devil question, but it's also a sober question. Because what is the value of a law if we can all think here that squatters are going to call on it and that's how this law is going to leak? Another criticism from the RvS: what is the actual time savings that can reasonably be expected from the newly proposed procedure with the Judge Commissioner? First of all, it should be noted that, in the current situation, the Public Prosecutor has the power to decide, in conjunction with the local authority, that is an important point which I shall come back to later on, to proceed with an emergency evacuation in exceptional circumstances. In the procedure provided for by the proposers, an application should also be made to the Judge Commissioner in such exceptional circumstances. According to the explanatory statement, in this situation, the hearing of squatters can be waived, but it cannot be ruled out that the proceedings before the judge-chief will take more time in such emergencies than an emergency evacuation by the prosecutor in the current situation. The RvS, like us, therefore has questions about actual time savings. In fact, it is estimated that the court commissioner's proceedings could take more time in emergency cases than an emergency evacuation by the prosecution in cooperation with local authority in the current situation. All the more so because the initiative proposal does not respond to the lack of police capacity. Preparing an eviction will always take time and manpower, and this initiative will not change that. Mr. Chairman. That brings us the capacity. The VNG also has critical notes to crack about the capacity of both OM and police on this bill. We were able to read the details in the attached pieces. I am curious to see how the initiators look at the VNG's criticism that their bill is at the expense of enforcement capacity on other issues. Could the initiators perhaps deny that their bill will lead to more workload for police, prosecutors and the judiciary? In the Lower House, the members of the SGP Group found that "the municipality of Amsterdam actively obstructs the enforcement of the current law by adding the condition that there is no evacuation for vacant positions and calls on property owners not to make a declaration." These members note that this is contrary to the democratic rule of law in which the municipality of Amsterdam must respect national law. They then ask: can the government indicate how it intends to call on the municipality of Amsterdam to comply with national legislation? The SGP Group points out an essential point here, namely the problem of refusing to maintain the ban on cracking. However, I would like to point out that even Mayor Halsema has come a little closer to this, because the cracks were spreading. Since then, there has been a significant improvement, as Mr Dittrich once again pointed out. But the question remains: why do the initiators seek refuge in a bill that seeks the solution to the enforcement of the squatting ban in the technique, rather than recognizing that tackling squatting primarily requires administrative will and commitment, engagement do not use unnecessary English, but you understand my point. Mr. Chairman. Kraken is a criminal offence. It is a plague for pawnshop owners, it is a heavy burden for prosecutors and police, it is morally reprehensible and it cannot be dealt with hard enough as far as we are concerned. We regret, however, that this proposal for an initiative raises the following, perhaps a bit of an open question: what does the initiators want to pursue a legislative proposal against which not the least of the institutions, namely the Council of State, the UNG, the police, the OM, the judiciary, raise serious concerns in advance? Then we are talking about well-founded and, unfortunately, in our view by initiators, not adequately refuted concerns that the proposed approach will not lead to a better approach, but rather to an increasing workload and bureaucracy. Mr. Chairman. I will take an open mind and take note of your answers with great interest and, on this basis, I will advise my group further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I would like to take the liberty of congratulating a number of colleagues on the results of their party, including yours, during the elections to the House of Representatives last week. That does not change the fact that the CDA Group in this Chamber is determined to persevere in carrying out its parliamentary duties. That's why I'm gonna start now. At the expert meeting on the initiative proposal, the Public Prosecutor, Ms Van Aert, made a valuable contribution. She has been honest about the problems the public prosecutor sees in the implementation of the new procedure advocated by the initiators. But she has also been honest about the fact that until 2019, the public prosecutor in Amsterdam has not sufficiently addressed the cracking. In any case, no action was taken in the act of red tape, and if there was any evacuation, you could see that squatters were going back to another building very soon. Speakings and hearings were long overdue. That could create a carousel. Yeah, that sounds cozy, but in fact it's always about staying illegally in someone else's building, almost always causing serious damage. Mrs Noordermeer explained this again on behalf of the property owners at that expert meeting. Mr. Chairman. If you look at all this, my group greatly appreciates the efforts of the initiators, because they want to deal with the victims of the crime with this shorter procedure in the court commissioner. The initiators also announced that they are pleased that Amsterdam, too, now recognises that cracking needs to be tackled harder, but they believe that the bill has added value without prejudice. They then refer to the lead times shown by the Council's figures for the case-law. As has been said, the Office has pointed out the difficulties it sees in implementing the new procedure. Mrs Van Aert said, among other things, 'I'm just saying 'I'm afraid we're going to need another prosecutor who's only going to have to work with evacuations'. In particular, this increased workload is foreseen because some evacuations are not even at present challenged by the Court of Appeal. If an application for interim measures is initiated, such an application for interim measures will be withdrawn. If you accepted this proposal as a Chamber, it would mean that any evacuation would have to take place first in a procedure of the rc. The Court of Justice also expects a delay in current criminal proceedings. On this point, Mr De Ridder was very persuasive on behalf of the Council for the case-law. A political group can take part, and this is in line with what has been put forward on behalf of the Public Prosecutor and the Council for the case-law............................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why I ask the initiators whether they are not afraid of a repression of the prosecution of other criminals. One could imagine that there is also talk of additional investments to ensure that the existing tasks are carried out without any delay. How do the initiators look at this? Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the letter in which he answered the questions put to the government. Speaking of lead times, it is nice that the Minister was able and willing to work quickly on the procedure here, because that means that we can have this debate right now, just before Mrs Van Toorenburg says goodbye across the street. Perhaps you, Mr President, will also allow me, as an intermezzo, to say that the CDA Group is going to miss her. On behalf of the group, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the enthusiasm with which she has always shaped her Chamber work. This is also evident from the initiative she took with Koerhuis. Back to the letter, because the Minister has shown that speed does not necessarily have to be at the expense of quality. In doing so, he also illustrates that, although this new procedure may take only three days, the judge-supervisor must be able to take a proportionality test tailored to the specific case. At the request of the CDA Group, on the basis of case law and literature, he made it clear with conviction that this procedure should not conflict in advance with Article 13 of the ECHR. My group has, of course, indicated that we do not have a hard precedent. It will also depend on the statements that will follow from the first authorisations given by a rc. Mr de Ridder has said that it will not be possible to make a decision in three days. That is something my group is questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u35	I have a question for my colleague Doornhof. You say that the procedure will comply with Article 13 of the ECHR. That is what the Minister has said, and I understand your agreement. There is no precedent, but the Hoge Raad made it quite clear in a 2011 ruling that the summary procedure complies with Article 13 of the ECHR, because the Court of Justice of the European Communities is very thoroughly using the word "ground' in that case, literally, it can examine how that proportionality test should end. My question to you is first of all whether the rc can carry out a thorough investigation within three days. The other side of my question is how, in your view, the guarantees of public access, legal aid and the fact that a suspect is a suspect because a squatter is now in the criminal proceedings can be present, secure in the procedure that is now being proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you for the questions, Mrs Veldhoen. I have the arrest in front of me. We need to rethink the fact that we don't have a hard precedent, but the Supreme Court says that before you make such a big decision to evacuate, you must have a decision from an independent judge. In the opinion of my group, the initiators have taken a good look at this, because it is provided for. You cannot say much more about that judgment, because we have a new procedure in which guarantees apply. You are asking whether that is precisely the guarantees that are also provided in Article 13. On the basis of what is now on the table, you could say: yes, because we have this judgment, and that includes in particular the independence of that judge. Also the hearing is mentioned in the bill. Mrs Veldhoen also made a point of transferring the decision on the evacuation on the request of the public prosecutor from the civil court to the criminal court. Yes, you can. I would point out, of course, that we are not talking here about a conviction of a suspect. No, we're talking about whether it's allowed to evacuate a property that's being cracked. Article 8 of the ECHR calls for this legal intervention. So I would like to say to Mrs Veldhoen that she should also look at what is being asked. I don't have to explain to her that rcs sometimes make much heavier decisions, because they just lock people up for months. Hence the procedure, at least in accordance with fundamental rights. Certainly also on the basis of what the Minister has said, I can imagine that this also applies to this procedure. That is the starting point of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u37	You're placing the decision on squatting in front of a decision on deprivation of liberty, saying that that's another consideration. The criterion put forward by the Supreme Court is that a decision that cannot be reversed requires an in-depth investigation. A removal is seen by the Supreme Court as an irreversibly decision. This means that the two fundamental rights that clash, the right of residence and the right of ownership, must be thoroughly weighed up. The court of appeal meets that standard but the question is whether the rc meets that standard. The Court of Justice of the European Communities has a public hearing. How do you see it at the rc, for example? The rc usually resides in the court's catacombs, near the cell complexes. How do you see that within three days the rc organises a hearing in which productions can be submitted, in which parties can be heard, in which squatters are properly summoned and in which the lawyer has time to read, to see documents and so on? How do you see this practical design? You're a lawyer. I'm sure you've thought about it. So how do you see that within the framework given by the Supreme Court, which the Supreme Court says: this is what we believe is possible and that is the provision court, because there is a proper and thorough test? I would like a specific answer to the question of how you see this practical interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u38	But I do not agree with Mrs Veldhoen that it is a clash of fundamental rights. No, and that is what the 2011 judgment says; we have more to it than we might think. The starting point is that the owner has the right to own his property as he pleases. Only under circumstances can the squatter's house law prevail. So that test, that proportionality test has the judge to perform. I do not need to give you an example of all kinds of issues in which judges have to make judgments that are much more complicated than what we are talking about here. It has simply turned out that often in a shorter period than three days a judge can make a good judgment. In the annotation of this judgment, Mevis, the annotator, also states that there is a judgment in which a good judgment is given in two days. That's also imaginable. That is also what the initiators have put forward in their reply. They say, if you're being very honest, it's pretty clear. The D.A.'s gonna come up with the claim, and it's gonna do it because it's definitely cracked. It indicates: we would like to evacuate, but we have Article 13 to respect, so we believe that as an independent judge, you should consider whether there are such exceptional circumstances as regards ownership. The Supreme Court is putting that right all the way in front of it. So it's not like it's about weighing one fundamental right against the other. No, it's about ownership. But the house law may require a correction to be made. The fact that you are carrying out such a test in a procedure at the rc with the hearing and with the available documents, my group believes that, on the basis of what the government has put forward on the application of Article 13 of the ECHR, it is conceivable, but I must admit that, Mrs Veldhoen, that will have to be demonstrated by the first court ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mrs. Veldhoen, third. I'd like to be somewhat concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u40	Yes, I will. The experts we have heard have different views. That's the first thing. Secondly, you say that a ruling can even be made in two days. Of course you can. That's what we saw at curfew. A judge may judge very quickly, but on the basis of a careful procedure. And I still do not hear you give any arguments on the basis of which I can assume that the procedure at the rc can take place as carefully as in those 72 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr Doornhof, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u42	I do not need to explain to Mrs Veldhoen how rc's work. They make a lot of decisions. They just lock people up without being convicted of a criminal offence. They still know how to make decisions which are far-reaching but also sound. So my group also has the confidence, on the basis of what is now in place, that the procedure advocated, which is not a conviction but a measure, namely that you are clearing such a squat, complies with Article 13. Mr President, I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Before you run away, there is another question from Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u44	By the way, you may also listen to it with a mouth cap; that is possible. Mr Doornhof talks about time savings. This is linked again to the principle that the interim proceedings should disappear and that a review should be carried out at the Court Commissioner's discretion. You've just had an extensive exchange of views on that. We're both lawyers. I can imagine that at some point there has been a session at the rc and even an authorization has been given, but it will be a while before the evacuation can take place. That's just certain; that can't happen a few hours later. I can imagine that in that interim period, a squatter's attorney is appointing the judge in the interim. At the expert meeting, the lawyer who had already pointed out that this was going to be one of the ways to go. We will both agree that the President of the Court of First Instance will then have jurisdiction and that there is also an urgency. What will that solve if lawyers still go to the judge for a preliminary ruling after that rc ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u45	You are automatically delayed; I agree with Mr Nicolaï. However, you know this as well as anyone else that you have to have reason to convince a court of law that it did not go at all well with the judge, so you get some kind of disguised appeal, because the proposal does, of course, talk about appeal. It's just the question, I'm gonna say it out loud, thinking about whether you're almost running into a lack of jurisdiction from the amenities court. But what if you say I'm a judge of justice, so I have to decide. Then of course you'll see if it's so bad what that rc has been doing. If that happens over and over again, I think that the lawyer we heard at the expert meeting will also change his mind a few times before he starts to advise his client not to go to the welfare court again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u46	So we agree that you can go to the judge in the interim. That also makes sense, because the bill allows an appeal against the judge's ruling. It doesn't suspend, so at that stage, you should always be able to go to a judge for a preliminary ruling...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u47	I don't know, but continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u48	... if one believes that it has somehow been unlawful. It may also be that you go to the President of the Court of Justice because you say that the situation at the Court of Justice did not really meet the requirements that should be imposed on it. In theory, we have just talked about this. You have discussed it, but in practice there may be a situation that one of the squatters has not been heard at all and that this squatter starts an interim action. So no matter how you turn it or turn it... Mr. Doornhof says: that lawyer may be scratching behind his ear sometime if he starts that interim hearing. But if that squatter wants that interim injunction to begin, then the interim proceedings begin and you have in fact won nothing. I would simply like a specific answer from your group. Then how do you look at that? If that's the case, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u49	I believe that Mr Nicolaï and I do not fully understand each other, because, as I said, it is indeed a question of how the welfare judge will receive you. However, if he says 'there is a procedure at the rc, we agree with the government that that procedure can in itself comply with Article 13 of the ECHR and I see that in the specific case the rights of the squatters have been sufficiently respected', he will simply reject that provision. So that's my point. If you say that it has gone completely wrong, that those people have not even been invited to do their story at the rc and that the welfare court thinks something about it, then you are right. Then, of course, this will be delayed immediately and the evacuation will be delayed. But in the situations where you're dealing with expert rc's, where they're gonna hear those parties and make a decision in three days... You will then lack those grounds to get a positive verdict for the squatters at the welfare court. There is therefore no time wasted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr Nicolaï, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr Doornbos spoke about the outcome of the ruling in the District Court. If you don't have good grounds to run, you'll be wrong there. But I do not hear Mr Doornbos say that the procedure of the Court of Appeal will not take place. The question is: does the draft law provide that the interim proceedings will now disappear, yes or no? I think we both agree that it is certain that this is not excluded. Then the question is still next. If there are lawyers to be found who are still going to open a short-term procedure for certain squatters, then they will simply take place and so we haven't made any progress. Mr Doornbos does say that the court will reject the procedure, but then it has been conducted and we may have lost another two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u52	It is Mr Doornhof, not Mr Doornbos. Mr Doornhof, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u53	I wonder if I have not said enough, because of course I do not deny that there can be all kinds of remedies. You can, in a manner of speaking, proceed to the Supreme Court in any matter. You don't, because as a lawyer and squatter at some point you see that it has just gone carefully with the rc, which has taken the starting point of ownership, and there are not enough circumstances to make an exception because of the right of residence, the house law. Of course you can ask for a remedy, but the judge will reject it. Of course you can appeal, according to the initiative proposal, but the judge will reject it. If you have very little faith in the rc's that are going to decide on this and thinks 'yes, they are all going to make mistakes so we can always successfully appeal', then you have a point, but I have a great deal of confidence in that. I think that your situation will arise in an individual case, I say through the President to Mr Nicolaï, but in most cases it will simply remain with the decision on the authorisation and that will be a sound judgment of the rc.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I congratulate the initiators on having been able to bring the bill to the First Chamber. Congratulations on the speedy answer to our questions. Maybe records were cracked here, too, and then cracked in a positive sense. Mr. Chairman. You can crack nuts and records, but no houses. It is therefore very important that strong action can be taken against persons who violate property rights of homeowners. Proposals that promote this can count on a warm welcome from the SGP, but does this also apply to this bill? Many questions have already been asked and questioned, and not by the smallest authorities: the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Council of Justice. The question even arises as to whether this bill will not primarily provide better legal protection for squatters. That would be a very harsh and undesirable outcome. Mr. Chairman. The bill is not entirely separate from the Amsterdam squatting problem, partly in relation to the appalling behavior of We Are Here. However, the desire to put an end to this kind of illegal practice must not cloud our vision for a possible ineffectiveness that takes us further away from home. I have the necessary questions about this effectiveness, and I would like to put them on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. The bill, I already said, looks mainly like the living carousel that the band We Are Here had a few years ago. However, that problem is no longer, or at least much less, at issue. In any case, the policy has been adapted in Amsterdam, where most squatters play, and the problem is more or less under control. Will this legislation not make the problems worse? Isn't it also a sign on the wall that the squatters themselves didn't interfere in the discussion surrounding this bill? They're not usually that timid. Or is it true that they do not have much to fear from this bill? Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that, when it comes to enforcing the planned ban on cracking, I attach great importance to the views of the public prosecutor. Their criticism weighs heavily. For example, they have pointed to increasing questions regarding the deployment of available detection capacity. Are we solving a burglary, a miserable vice case, or are we gonna get a squat cleared out? In by far the majority of cases, 70%, squatters now leave voluntarily. If squatters do not institute interim proceedings, they will be evacuated immediately after the end of the seven-day period. The new law weakens that position: evacuating becomes quite labour intensive for the criminal justice chain. That would be a very unwanted outcome, wouldn't it? The last thing we want is to saddle police, prosecutors and courts with more work. Now only files are made if interim proceedings have been instituted. So that is in about 30% of the cases, but that will have to be done in 100% of the cases, which a judge will also have to deal with. Is this increase in workload acceptable? According to the applicants, the additional workload is not too great. It also just came back through an interruption. I do have some questions about that. According to them, as I read in the note following the report, it would have been 22 additional sessions throughout the year in 2019 and 33 additional sessions in 2018. Do those numbers make sense? Are the figures given not to be taken into account for interim measures which have been withdrawn? Under the new legislation, all evacuation decisions must be submitted to the Judge Commissioner. I've been diving into history for a while. In the Amsterdam region alone, 560 buildings were creaked in the years 2014-2020. This means on average 80 squats per year and therefore 80 claims on the rc per year. That's a lot more than the proposers tell us. I would very much like a clear explanation of these numbers and the resulting workload. The prosecution has strongly pointed out to the applicants that a minimum dossier will not be sufficient. The judge commissioner is not a stamp machine and the house law is irreversible. The Court of Justice has also stressed that the Court Commissioner will not have to examine the matter in a marginal but full manner, since there is a balance between house law as guaranteed in the ECHR. Is this true and will it not be an inevitable waste of time? All the more so because forming a file will not be so simple, partly because it will have to be anticipated on any defenses of the squatters. The burden of proof lies with the prosecution as a result of this bill and not with the squatters. Next, the ability of the prosecution to act is affected by the fact that a prosecutor can no longer order an emergency evacuation himself. That is the reason behind the rc, with all the legal discussions that have taken place. Speaking more about the alleged time savings of the legislative proposal, the initiators say in the note following the report that instead of the current up to eight weeks, in the new procedure with the use of the Judge Commissioner in principle it takes 72 hours to evacuate. In this way, one writes in the note following the report, it becomes unattractive for the squatters to hop from building to building. But that's not right, is it? The judge commissioner has to make a decision within 72 hours. And he probably won't make it all the time. Afterwards, planning for evacuation must be made; police capacity must be released and so on. So that 72 hours is wishful thinking after all? Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that the SGP still has some hesitation about this bill. That's why I'm all the more looking forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr Nocolaï has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We always start with compliments. I also start with a compliment, but my compliment will be something else. I agree with Mr Recourt. My compliment is that the proposers, the initiators, have already achieved what they wanted to achieve by submitting the draft. That is how I understood Mr Recourt's words. In fact, we are already asking whether it is still necessary to adopt this draft law. Our group will certainly not be part of this. We have serious criticism. It is not in what I will call "the ideological sphere." We, too, believe that if you make a criminal offence, you should also maintain it; that is clear. Our criticism is that the First Chamber should focus on the rule of law, feasibility and that sort of thing. I am very pleased that the Nanninga Group has also raised the issue: do not approach it from an ideological point of view, but see if this draft law is just technical. I have some questions about that. I'd like to start with a question to the Minister. It has to do with the point that many groups have already pointed out, namely that there has actually been an enormous amount of criticism from the field. What was put forward by the D.A. at the expert's meeting is not a bad thing. "If you want the D.A. to apply the crack order vigorously, vote against this law. Only then can the D.A. clear premises more directly, more effectively and with less scarce detection capacity." And, after consulting the courts, a very negative legislative opinion has been written by the Court of Justice which concludes that it is not a legislative proposal. And I say to the Minister that the Council adds: "This is an opinion that the Council rarely actually gives." So both the prosecutor and the Council say in the case-law: this cannot go on, technically speaking. It's all about saving time. I see that the Minister, in answering the questions put to him, says about this time-saving: 'The validity of the justification of the legislative proposal will have to be demonstrated in practice'. Mr Dittrich has already dealt with this. This is a very serious matter. 'Cause what's the minister saying here anyway? He actually says, "Yes, you should just start, and then we'll evaluate. And yes, this evaluation can actually show that we should never have started." Mr. Chairman. If we take our task seriously in the First Chamber, do we have to see whether the validity of this bill is sufficiently plausible? Let me give you an example from my own background. We talked about the Environment Act. Suppose, at some point in the Environment Act, there is a time limit within which to decide on a licence application. And let's say that all the implementing agencies say: that permit path is impossible within that time limit. Does the government say, then, let's just start and look after three years, or is it true what the implementing agencies have predicted from their practical experience? That's unthinkable, isn't it? If you look at it that way, it is just as unthinkable that we should now say: the validity must be proven. Why don't we just keep saying: let's look at it for three years before we introduce the law? Because that is also a starting point. There has been enough talk from the field that things are actually going well as they are. In that respect, the bill may be a little out of date. Let's take a look at it first and then see if we're gonna have to introduce the law after three years. I think we should take that as a starting point. Why is the entrance not followed? Then I come to the questions to the initiators. There is one question I have already put in writing, namely the following. You stand up for the interests of the owner; a good thing. This owner is going to suffer damage and misery, something that has already been brought forward by enough people. But where is that interest of the owner actually addressed in the judicial review? Because if things happen there in the caverns with the judge-supervisor, then he is not a trial party. The answer to the questions says that the owner makes a declaration, and there is a complete story in it. For example, it could say: I'm going to start remodeling in three weeks. That's contradicted by those squatters at the judge's office. They say: that is not the case at all; we have data showing something quite different. Who's the one who comes in the gun for the owner at the time and says, that and that and that's what's going on? The owner is not there; he does not need to be heard. The bill also contains no obligation to hear the owner. I would like to hear again from the initiators. The other point I would like to hear is this. I have just explained in detail in an interrupting debate that the experts' meeting showed that the legal profession does not consider it impossible that, in addition to the proceedings before the judge-in-chief, a short-term procedure will simply be initiated. That's under serious consideration. There may be all kinds of situations that could be the reason why a group of 25 squatters says, "I want you to start an interim hearing, find a lawyer for that, and that interim proceedings are being brought." So what's left of the time savings? Do the initiators agree with me that a judge in the interim proceedings can always be adduced and that this is not excluded in this bill? The 72-hour deadline has already been discussed in detail. When I look at the answer, I see that you are linking it to the fact that the judge-in-law can do so quickly and actually make very difficult decisions when it comes to insurance and that sort of thing. But that's one person. You must imagine that you will have a squat with 20 people in it; how do you see it? Do all 20 of them need to be heard? Do you have to take 20 times that 72 hours? For one person, 72 hours are already needed in the eyes of the initiators. I would also like an answer to that. Actually, the basic question, which is somewhat in line with my background as Professor of Administrative Law: you have also looked at the alternative options in the initiative proposal. You also reviewed the extension of the administrative powers of the mayor. You say that this alternative does not offer the desired solution. Why not? Article 138a of the Criminal Code makes it clear that squatters are involved in a crime which must be prosecuted through criminal law. I couldn't agree more. But when it comes to evacuation, we are not talking at all about persecution, but actually about something administrative, namely: the government, not the criminal court, is going to take actual actions to put an end to a situation that is unlawful. That's basically administrative law. My question is: why is that road simply closed? That brings me to the final point. It's the damage that matters to you. One could imagine that if this administrative evacuation does not happen quickly enough, for example because there is insufficient capacity or because there is a fear of public order problems and so on, the issue of disadvantage compensation will be addressed. I would nevertheless like to ask the initiators why the next possibility has not been considered. If damage is caused because one has not cleared quickly enough, should that damage not be compensated by the government? Then you'll be there. It may well be that the amounts involved are not included in the amounts involved in the implementation of this law, with all the capacity problems that will then arise. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Arbouw on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the initiators of the legislative proposal for the initiative proposal, and I would like to congratulate them on their diligence, energy and perseverance in coming up with this initiative proposal. It is nice that we have managed to hold this debate before the change of parliament, as a result of the elections, takes place, so that the initiators can defend and explain their work themselves. After all, they have been working for a long time to see, in consultation with many interested bodies, how the current Law on Cracking and Vulnerability can best be tightened. At the time, this was an initiative proposal by Ten Hoopen, Slob and Van der Burg, which was adopted in this house in June 2010. There has already been an evaluation of this law in 2015. The current initiators have already put their finger on the sore spot in various motions and parliamentary questions in the Dutch Parliament in 2017, 2018 and 2019. This brings me to my first question to the initiators. That is a little in line with what Mr Nicolaï was talking about. Can the initiators explain what alternatives they have investigated before they came to the present initiative proposal to tighten up the Cracking and Void Act? Mr. Chairman. The Cracking and Vulnerability Act was a big step at that time, and the cracking became a real criminal offence. But we in the VVD Group agree with the initiators that in practice it appears that the law does not yet have the desired effect. That's mainly in the speed and the ability to act against squatting. That is not just the issue in Amsterdam, by the way. That's what I said earlier. Kraken is a rural phenomenon, which does not occur only in the big cities. In my previous position as alderman in Breda, that is the ninth city of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. We are concerned with the feeling of justice, especially among the victims of the squatters. The squatter can, as some have already indicated, cause a great deal of suffering to the owners of a property, an estate or a business property, both financially and emotionally. The right of ownership is a fundamental right within the Dutch rule of law. It is therefore important, in our group's view, that the government, and hence local authority, should effectively protect its inhabitants and entrepreneurs who are victims of cracking. So I'm a little more in favour of prevention: you have to protect them in front instead of paying for the damage afterwards. At the moment, on the basis of the Council's figures for the case-law, the lead time between a judgment and an actual evacuation is on average between three and eight weeks. You should be aware that the owners do not have access to their own property or property all this time. They see squatters do damage during that period, while the fixed costs go through. The damage caused shall not be insured. In fact, the representative of Real Estate Interest indicated at the expert meeting that the insurers simply cancel the policy. After stories at the squatters is generally an illusion. Mr. Chairman. What my group agrees with is that more attention should be paid to the interests of the owner. Accelerating enforcement limits the time in which the squatters can cause damage. This brings more balance between the squatters' house law and the owner's property right. My group also finds the preventive effect of this bill attractive. It would be nice if, ultimately, in the medium term, it would lead to less cracking and the breaking of the housing carousel, and ultimately also to less workload for police and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u60	The position of the owners is strengthened, as I hear Mr Arbouw say. But a number of speakers have already asked whether they are, because they are not party to the procedure. They will indeed be heard in the beginning, but after the first best contradiction there isn't any cultivation, there isn't any rent-a-dwelling the owner is no longer there. What's that? To what extent will the position be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u61	I agree with you that it calls for a proper report. This means that the owner is responsible for properly expressing his own interests in the declaration. He must also provide a good basis for this. Then it is up to the prosecution to defend those interests; I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u62	Anyway, it's hard for the D.A. to defend those interests if there's any contradiction and the owner isn't behind it. I myself have an example in which the owner said: I rented it. When the welfare judge asked for it, there was no concreteisation whatsoever. The welfare judge said: I don't believe it. That's the kind of consideration you should make with the rc, but it's not in this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u63	An owner isn't crazy. If he knows that this procedure is going on, he will do everything in his power to justify what he says with facts and thus, for example, to provide a tender, so that there will be no discussion at all about whether or not a renovation is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mr Recourt, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u65	Finally. Don't you think the rc will also say "I'd like to talk to that owner" when the theorem is a little disputed? Then you'll have to call the owner and you'll be a few days away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u66	I agree with you: if that is the case, it will not lead to the acceleration we are aiming for. That is something we must at least avoid. That will have to be proved in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u67	I hear Mr Arbouw say that there is now a period of three to eight weeks before that statement is made and that there can be damage throughout that period. Two weeks ago, we heard from all the experts that this time limit has become much shorter due to agreements with short-term units. The sessions are scheduled much earlier. It'll take two to three weeks. The case-law and the prosecution say that the new proposal will also take two to three weeks if you want to meet the guarantees provided by Article 13 ECHR. You insist that it lasts three to eight weeks. What makes you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u68	I will come to the second part of my speech in a moment. As regards Mrs Veldhoen's question: those three to eight weeks are the average across the country. I had a little debate earlier with Mr Dittrich on Amsterdam. That is where the mutual agreement was made to strive for two to three weeks. By the way, I think the average is a little longer there. But that is not yet on the agenda for the whole country. That's the point. The initiative proposal is not only used for Amsterdam. Otherwise, it was the question of whether this would require national legislation. The legislation that we adopted in 2010 and which we now see does not actually have the effect that was intended at the time, needs to be tightened up so that we can reduce the crackling further nationally and give the owner's interests a more important position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u69	The Justice Council speaks for the whole country, not just for Amsterdam. They have clearly indicated that it is now two to three weeks in practice and that it is expected that this proposal will take so long. I have not actually received an answer to my question as to what makes you say: that is not right. Do you not take the Council's words for the case-law and the prosecution seriously, or do you have reason to doubt them? Have you heard any other experts who judge otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u70	The initiators may be able to say a little more about this, but my impression was that the expert meeting was mainly about Amsterdam. Mr. Chairman. I have one on the other, because my group certainly has a number of concerns. At this meeting of experts, which was held fourteen days ago, critical comments were made, in particular, on the feasibility of the proposal before us. That is precisely the point we are looking forward to. So I have some questions about that, too. My first question is to the initiators. Can they explain again why, in their view, the shift made by this bill from the civil court and the court of law to the criminal court is more appropriate to this conflict of interest between squatters and owners? Other groups have asked for this. Our main concern is that several stakeholders at the expert meeting indicated that the objective of this initiative proposal, i.e. reducing procedural time to 72 hours, is not considered realistic. Would the initiators like to go into that again, especially since this is the crux of their proposal? This also brings me to a number of questions to the Minister of Justice, following on from the questions to the initiators. What's the Minister's assessment? Will the court commissioner in all cases comply with these 72 hours? By now, that hard deadline has been removed. Mr. Chairman. Just as the VVD Group is keen that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary should not overflow the work and be able to do their job as well as possible, that will be the minister's interest. Can he go back to the question of how he estimates this additional workload for the authorities? We talked about this earlier in the debate. Does he think that the extra work that comes on board with the implementation of this bill will indeed be at the expense of the detection and enforcement of other issues? Are priorities being set? Furthermore, the initiators expect that the present proposal will ultimately reduce the workload of the various bodies in the medium term by this preventive action. Is that how he sees it? Finally, what possibilities does the Minister see to increase the chance that the owner can recover some of the damage, other than Mr Nicolaï's proposal that the damage should be compensated by the government? Mr. Chairman. The response by the initiators and the minister is of great importance to my group. We will take these steps for our final assessment of the initiative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-3.u72	Then I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m.
