ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u1	Good afternoon. The next item is the two-minute debate on subsidised legal aid. Welcome to the Minister for Legal Protection, Mr Dekker, and to the Members Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Bikker, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Ellian and I have Mrs Ellemeet here. I can see a few more Members, but at least they did not ask for the floor, which we do not have here. I shall be the first to go to Mr Van Nispen for his two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Access to justice is the foundation of the rule of law. If people can't live up to their rights, then injustice will continue to exist. In the meantime, we all see that the fees in the social legal profession have been left behind and that they will therefore have to rise dramatically in the coming period. We don't have time to waste, it's late, but it's not too late. Therefore, the next motion to do something about the fees in the social lawyer immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that access to justice is the foundation of our rule of law, but has been under pressure for years, inter alia because of a limited budget, which means that social lawyers, among other things, stop granting legal aid;]] [[Noting that the Chamber recently adopted the Klever/Ploumen motion (28362, nr. 44), which states that there is a need to invest in the social attorney in the spirit of the Van der Meer Committee, but that there are no concrete plans for increasing the fees or preventing the drain from the social attorney;]] [[calls on the government now to allocate additional budget and to increase the fees per point in the social lawyer by 10% compared to the current fees and to find cover for this in the spring note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u3	This motion takes a modest first step in the right direction. We do that mainly because we can't wait any longer. But for the slightly longer term, as soon as possible, but the slightly longer-term scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Committee has to be implemented. There was also broad agreement on this in the committee debate this morning. But that takes months, and that is why we need to make the right preparations. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Van der Meer Committee in the Other Times Report concluded that there was late maintenance in the system of subsidised legal aid and that the allocation of points was not in line with actual time spent;]] [[considers that the success or failure of the revision of the system of legal aid should not be a precondition for providing reasonable compensation to social lawyers who provide legal aid to people who cannot pay it in full, who thus contribute significantly to access to justice and thus play a crucial role in our rule of law;]] [[In view of the vote in favour of the Klever/Ploumen motion (28362, No. 44) which states that sufficient structural resources should be made available to social lawyers in the spirit of the Van der Meer Committee;]] [[Whereas scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Commission may not have been implemented overnight and that its implementation should be prepared for this, so that it does not appear during the formation that implementation by 1 January would not be realistic;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the lawyer and the Legal Assistance Board, to make all preparations and to prepare the implementation for the implementation of scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Commission as of 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. This is a question from Mr Ellian of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u5	Do you mean your motion that scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Committee should actually be implemented one-on-one? Or are you talking about achieving that reasonable remuneration for the social lawyer? That can be two different things. What does your motion look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u6	The purpose of this motion of the SP, co-signed by DENK, is ultimately that reasonable remuneration for the social lawyer. But there's been extensive research on that. Four years ago, said in my mind in October 2017, we had the report Other times of the Van der Meer Committee, which has already investigated in detail how you should do that in order to bring that points award back to date. So it seems obvious to me to take over that report. If Mr Ellian or other parties in the formation have a brilliant proposal that can count on the support of the social lawyer and that is better, then I think no one will say no to it. It is therefore a question of that direction, but it is also a question of taking those steps now and preventing us from asking them for something impossible. If the parties were informed sometime in the autumn and we want to introduce it by 1 January, then it can't be done anymore, then it's too late. So in this direction, preparations must already be made to do what is necessary, namely a reasonable remuneration for the social lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you. We now come to Mrs Bikker, from the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr President. It creaks and squeaks in social law, while access to the rule of law is essential. No matter how big or how small your wallet is, you need to be able to get it straight. The Minister was very clear in the committee debate: we need to strengthen social law. I thank him for that clarity. I would also like to thank him for making it very clear that he will not see the fact that where we have now had to arrange for two years extra money in terms of bridging in order to keep the social lawyer up, there is a gap in 2022. I ask him to confirm this, as well as the fact that extra money will be needed to organize structuralally that the social lawyer can survive sustainably, but above all, that people can get their rights. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to identify the areas in which need is greatest. I ask him to inform the Chamber on this in time so that, even if extra money were to be spent, we have a clear idea of where that is going. I ask him to look in particular at the corona effects and to have them on the picture, so that in some time we do not see a wave of complex cases by people who could not now go to the Legal Loket, but who might come forward later. Finally, Mr President. It is precisely now that we see that we are getting more involved in the commercial legal profession, also through the use of internships. For this there is a subsidy scheme, which works very well. I ask the Minister to take it along in the direction of 2022, so to include it in what he already promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, too. There is a question from Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u10	These are justified questions in themselves, but do I understand the Christian Union now in such a way that we are actually satisfied with the outcome of today's debate that the social lawyers' fees are not going down next year? No, that had to be added! There's a motion to raise the fees, isn't there? The Prime Minister said on television in the interview about his radical ideas that access to justice is so important. Everyone agrees: 122 out of 150 seats supported this motion for more investment in social law. Does the Christian Union then take pleasure in the fact that next year's compensation will not go down any further? That's impossible, isn't it? Are you going to support the SP's motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you for the sharp questions put by Mr Van Nispen. Of course: the signature of the Christian Union, or at least the voice of the Christian Union, is under that motion. It is under the motion for a resolution that more is needed for social lawyers, particularly because we want to strengthen the rule of law. We have seen that this has not gone well in recent years. I mentioned that in the committee debate that we had, and I say that once again in this Chamber. I heard the Minister say the same thing. At the time when the Minister is so determined about this, I do not myself need to make another motion on this matter. I thank him for that. I hope, of course, that he will confirm this firmly in his reply. Otherwise, at least there is one motion from your hand. There's probably more of them; we'll see about that. I'd like to hear the Minister first about that, but I've heard his tone. I have not seen all the debates here in recent years, as you know, but this is a nice, good, new sound for me that we first heard from the Prime Minister and now from this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u12	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u13	So the fees have to go up, but not right now. That was the outcome of today's debate. That's what the Minister said. If the Minister is going to surprise me like that, our motion is not necessary, but if the Minister says the same as this morning, then I hear the Christian Union saying: the fees must be up, but we can wait; we do so in formation, but not yet. Is that the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u14	Then Mr. Van Nispen listens to the Christian Union a little too economical. That might be a nice experience for him, too. I do not like to amend a spring note for each motion that I have not even seen. I'm just new here, but I think that spring note is almost ready. I'll wait for it. I heard the Minister clearly. You have heard me very clearly about my commitment to social law. That's how you could know me if you looked at what I've done before in this life. So you'll find me side by side. But I do care about the order of things. It matters, too. I've heard the Minister in a different tone than I've heard before. That gives confidence for the future. I'm curious to hear the government's response in a moment. Not until I complete the picture, we'll look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. Then we continue with Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr President. In the committee debate we discussed in detail the needs of the social lawyer, who is facing enormous challenges when it comes to funding. Just like Mrs Bikker, I also like to get the Minister's commitment from DENK's group that it is not going to happen that this bridging arrangement will not go away and that social lawyers will have less money to deal with. I'd like a clear commitment. Mr. Chairman. I have two further motions on points which have been exchanged in the debate, but which we would like to give some direction on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, following the harsh conclusions of the report Unfamiliar injustice about the premium affair, there has been a greater awareness of toughness in legislation;]] [[Whereas the Dutch order of lawyers writes about possible hardnesses in the Law on Legal Assistance, such as the concept of "self-reliance," which among other things expects a citizen to consult first-line institutions first;]] [[Whereas practice shows, as in the case of a supplement, that not every citizen can or is aware of this;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the Legal Aid Act for any difficulties affecting a group of vulnerable people in practice, as well as to consider, in consultation with relevant legal aid parties, how these possible difficulties can be overcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government, through various online tools, is attempting to review the system of legal aid, including through online self-regulation tools and online triage tools;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor on-line self-regulation and triage tools in legal aid that they do not adversely affect access to justice, in particular for people with less online or linguistic skills, and to return to this in progress reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-240]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you very much. Then we will listen to the next speaker. That's Mr. Ellian. Mr. Ellian is from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning, in the committee debate, we talked a lot about money. The Minister has clearly shown a sense of urgency. But I'd like to take you all to a trial I did a year and a half ago. It was about Mr. X. I was with a major telecom provider, and Mr. X hadn't paid his phone subscription. As you know, of course you should. We came to court, and Mr. X didn't have legal counsel, but he did have someone with him to help him. His arguments didn't come up very well and the judge got annoyed. At one point, the judge said a little harshly: if you carry on like this, there will be a judgment and then you will have to pay, on top of that, court fees, extrajudicial costs and registry rights; you will not be pleased, but so be it. That's when I asked for suspension. I said, Your Honor, one moment. I went down the hallway and told both men, "What can you afford?" After all, I quickly realized that there were of course payment problems. The gentleman had a benefit. I don't know the amount anymore, and I can't say any of that either, but sir could pay about a ten a month. I said, "Joh, that's fine. How long do you need? Fifteen months? I'm fine, too. I'll take all the costs off my end. Pay this properly on time; then we go in and ask the judge to write this down, and Kees is done." So to speak, so to speak. I went home with a sense of satisfaction. Why? Was I legally right? Yes. Could I have made sure that the gentleman was ordered to pay? Yes. But it's also about the human solution. That is what I would like to ask the Minister once more, because I suspect that the Minister is very attached to this too. What are you going to do to ensure that the legal reality is not at the heart of the matter, but that the human solution is also at the heart of it? Because when it comes to the future of social law and the future of legal aid, it is necessary for everyone, and not just for the government, to get away from legal reality and also to think in human solutions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you, too. That brings us to the end of the first term of this two-minute debate. I'm just looking at the minister to see if he can answer directly, or how much time he needs. About five minutes? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u21	It was a slightly shorter suspension than a minute or five. That's good; we appreciate that. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection, Mr Dekker. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to wash my glasses. Maybe it is good to start with the general remark that I think that we have had a good debate on access to justice and the role of legal aid in it. Thank you for that. There was also one question open. It has not been repeated now, but I would come back to that; that promise was still there. I've been in touch with the Treasury Department about the two-point assignment. There's a debate tomorrow in front of the Secretary of State for Finance. It knows the problem and it would come back to this tomorrow during the debate, also because there is more to it than just the two-point allocation. There is also a discussion on what exactly is covered. I think that's faster than writing a letter. There were a number of questions, and I will dwell on the motions. Mrs Bikker asked for a number of clear commitments. This was later repeated by a number of others. The Klever/Ploumen motion aims to improve the situation and also the fees of lawyers and not to deteriorate. That is also why I do not see it happening that we are going to fall back on the point of the bridging regulation in 2022. In theory, that's what's in it now, but I'm telling you honestly that's really just theory. We will have to talk about this formally and the budgetary process will still have to be done carefully, but I can make this commitment here in this form. The second point is that I suspect, at least, that is my interpretation of that motion, but it is a speech-expression that the Chamber actually says that it wants to go even further than just a bridging arrangement. Hence the reference in the spirit of Van der Meer. Of course, we need to look carefully. I have said a few words about the scenarios that I am working on, but it is clear to me that this is not only taken out of the system or within budgetary frameworks. Eventually the forming parties will have to make a decision, but I think that is the direction. I would also like to say to Mrs Bikker that I will really include the Chamber in the investigation into self-reliance and the vulnerabilities in the system. That's on the one hand so the WODC study might come out in the meantime, but I also said some about the experimental work with the light advice additions. That's what we're doing, actually, to get a feeling before. If things get out there, I'll come back to your room, of course. Then there is the Young Growing Scheme, which Mrs Bikker asked me to include in the reflection on arrangements for the future. That's what I want to do. However, I would like to point out that the scheme was specifically designed to do something about attracting young people, knowing that the fees would be below the mark for some time to come. In other words, it was some kind of patch solution. If, in a new financial year, a new cabinet actually corrects that problem of resources at once, I also think that we should look again at whether such arrangements are still necessary, but I will take this with me. Finally, as far as the questions are concerned, then I shall turn to Mr Ellian's point of order. I really like the example he has mentioned, but you also ask yourself why it is only now that the hearing has come to such an arrangement, because then a lawyer has been added, costs have been incurred and someone probably had to wait a long time, which has put him in a lot of stress and hassle. Probably the debt problem hasn't diminished. My idea about the new system and strengthening the first line is that these kind of good ideas about achieving an acceptable and real payment system should not be discussed in court or in court, but in fact at a much earlier stage. We actually do this along two lines. One: where government claims are concerned, there can be quite a lot of debt and the scope for payment arrangements needs to be extended. Let me mention an execution service that falls under me, the CJIB. You used to have to pay your fine in one go. That was also a bit from the idea that it had to hurt. In the meantime, you can pay them in instalments. So if you can't pay it in one go, you can take a little longer. In fact, if you're really in big debt, there's some kind of pause button, so you don't get into any more trouble. I think this is a good example. When it comes to conflicts between individuals and organisations, for example between citizens and businesses, or between citizens, the Legal Loket can play a very important, intermediate role in this. So these are two concrete examples: one with the government as party and one with a third private as party. That's what we're gonna do. The motions. The Van Nispen/Azarkan motion in part No. 238. I see the problem of compensation. That is also why I have looked at where the shoe is most pinched in the current financial year. That's in family law. That's why we did a little extra work. At the same time, it is real to say that we are in a whole budgetary process. The spring note was skinned except for one hair. It is not the case that in the current financial year there is now additional scope for additional financial resources. Of course, amendments can always be made to that effect, but the place where this should be done is then the debate on the Spring paper. Your room has a budget right. That's why I'm deceiving this motion. Perhaps even more important than the formal cover of motions and the formal systematic cover is the substance. I really have a strong feeling that we are at a turning point and that we need to take care of some things properly, but then I prefer to do it right at once. On the one hand, you ask someone who has been waiting a long time to be patient. It also makes me feel a little burdened. But if I see where we stand now and what the basis for support in the Chamber is, I would prefer to use all the energy to settle the matter properly from the new financial year rather than to do something quickly on 1 July. Otherwise, in certain jurisdictions that are already reasonably up-to-date in the debates, I have also mentioned examples that are now 10% higher, whereas they have to go down later, and I don't like that very much either. My advice is therefore "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u23	The Van Nispen/Azarkan motion in part No. 238 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u24	The Van Nispen/Azarkan motion in part No. 239 I understand very well. I think we have a good debate on that, too. Mr Van Nispen's concern is: nice that a new cabinet will be able to say something about it later, but then you will see that you are close by 1 January and it will all cost...; I want to prevent that. I interpret this motion in such a way that the ultimate objective is a reasonable remuneration for that lawyer. That's what I heard him say. The petitioner will understand that this will still have to be financially regulated, but that will be budgetary work or formation work. Besides, I'm also looking at what you're doing in the old system and what you're doing in the new system. That's why I was so good with "in the spirit of Van der Meer," the exact wording in the Klever/Ploumen motion. Because now, of course, you're on the intersection of two systems. In the end, that does not affect a reasonable remuneration for the target group we are talking about, but we need to look at how we can do it wisely. In scenario one of Van der Meer it is not only said that there must be better compensation, but also that it must all be in the old system. And we've been three, four years. If I may interpret this motion in this way, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u25	The Van Nispen/Azarkan motion in part No. 239 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the motions on the items Nos. 240 and 241. I like them; I like them. In fact, we're already doing this. I'm always a little hesitant. Last year the President of the Chamber urged us to be critical of unnecessary motions. So I'm kind of inclined to say that the first thing that's asked is to look at those hardnesses... is exactly what's being looked at in the WODC research that's going on right now. The same is true of the motion in part No. 241. The online tools are precisely aimed at making it more accessible, with extra attention to digibetes and people who are less linguistic. That would therefore be a reason for me to discourage both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u27	The motions-Van Baarle/Van Nispen on pieces Nos. 240 and 241 are not recommended. I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u28	Perhaps I could tempt the Minister to be a little less quick and firm in saying 'it is unnecessary'. Look, that WODC research is indeed ongoing and that's about the concept of self-reliance. Now there may be many possible toughness in the law to distinguish from each other. And I think we should learn from each other from what we've been through in, among other things, the premium affair. There are indeed a number of things that are going on, and this motion is pointing in that direction, because there is also a task for the government: to investigate actively, to try to identify it, and to come up with solutions. I did not hear the Minister say that in that committee debate. With your permission, I will take the second point right away, Mr President. The committee's reaction in that committee debate was: yes, we take that into account, because there are other tools available. I don't think that's enough. If we are to introduce online tools with each other, we need to take account of possible negative side effects that this can have. And all I'm asking you to do is take that into account and come back to that in the progress reports. I do not think that was answered or promised by the Minister in the committee debate either, so it does not seem to me that the motions are superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u29	I believe I have both agreed in the debate. Otherwise, I'm gonna do it again, standing up this debate. To begin with: online tools and accessibility, that's exactly what we're doing. We are paying attention to this and I shall come back to this in the progress reports, because it is an important objective. We do not do this to increase the threshold; we do it to settle the threshold. So I can just make a clear commitment here. The second one's on the investigation of those hardnesses. We have had a good discussion about self-reliance, which is actually the greatest vulnerability in the laws and regulations. But I think I have also said in the debate that if there are any other hard feelings, it must be given a place in the investigation. And that is quite possible, because of course we also ask the NSA and the USAN and individual lawyers: what are you running into when it comes to good access to justice? I therefore believe that Mr Van Baarle's concern is largely covered by these commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. Then there is a very brief question from Van Nispen, because it is not Mr Van Nispen's motion we were talking about here. Or one more question about your own motion? Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mr President, on my first motion. I believe that Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union and all my fellow Members have heard that the Minister says: we have to pay reasonable compensation to the social lawyers, but we are not doing so for the time being. That is actually the answer that is before us, so we can vote on Tuesday, as I say to colleagues. And as one of the reasons for dissuading the motion, the Minister said: it would be annoying if we increased the rates genericly by 10% and then, if we moved to a fairer point allocation, we would find that some rates would have to be reduced. But I've learned that you should never think for anyone else. Then I ask the Minister: could the Minister then go into consultation with the lawyer to ask if they would mind if we did something for the short term, knowing that it would take more time to implement Van der Meer Commission, that certain tariffs would then be reduced, but that we would at least have a fairer system? And that's $150 million that we don't have on the table right now. Actually, I'd like to ask the Minister to enter into this conversation. So don't think for anyone else, don't think: the lawyer doesn't want that. I think people are waiting for perspective, fair compensation and a step in that direction in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u32	An answer to this "short" question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u33	I'd do that, but I think I already know the answer. I think the lawyer's gonna say, "Help all the bits." At the same time, however, it also requires a great deal from the implementation organisations. It requires a number of things from the whole budgetary process. You submit this motion, but do not provide cover. But of course we also have to look at the current year, the Spring note... Well, all the big financial bumps we run into. When you say 'well, I think that some things are heavier, and that this is more important and should be at the expense of that' in the Spring Paper, that is your right, but I think that is not so much a matter of a motion without cover now in this debate, but much more when it comes to the Spring Paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u34	And that brings us to the end of this debate. Thank you very much to the Minister and to the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u35	Just a brief suspension, and then we'll go back to the next debate around the clock. I wish you a blessed day.
