ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Medical Care and the Secretary of State for Health et cetera. Thank you for joining us. We're having a spicy debate today. We also have a maiden speech from Mrs Van den Hil. We look forward to that. She will be the third speaker. This debate will have a rather unusual structure, because next to the first term of the Chamber we have a VAO on education and corona. Then I will suspend, then there will be a vote and only then will we listen to the answers of the cabinet. You therefore have a considerable period of reflection; that is an advantage at a disadvantage. So again, after the first term of the Chamber, I have to file a VAO. That's how we know what the railroad book is for all of them. The subject is now the amendment of the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients in order to simplify implementation and restore technical deficiencies and omissions, Section 35667. We have nine participants on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	The first speaker, Mrs Van den Berg, I would very much like to invite you to appear here. She has asked for 20 minutes' speaking time. That's what we're gonna do. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the officials at VWS. During the procedural meeting on 12 May, the other members of the committee supported my request that in future, in the event of legislative changes, the legal text containing the changes in colour, starting with the laws we are discussing today, i.e. the original text with track changes. It was short notice for the officials, but it worked. Thank you very much again. Mr. Chairman. Today, as you said, we are dealing with the second amendment of the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients in order to simplify implementation and restore technical deficiencies and omissions. The entry into force of both laws was on 1 January 2020 to quote the government "to strengthen the legal protection of vulnerable clients and patients." The year 2020 was a transition year, an implementation year, because both laws are complex in their elaboration and require a different way of working. However sad, Mr President, sometimes forced care is necessary to protect the person concerned or to protect his or her environment. The CDA is therefore in favour of more interference, so that forced care takes place only exceptionally. That was also the reason why the CDA was in favour of the three days of observation care, a proposal that a social organisation like the Salvation Army also supported. In order to examine whether the current instruments in the compulsory ggz Act are sufficient, a monitor would come to the House of Representatives after 1 January, after the introduction. Maybe we just couldn't find it, but can the Secretary of State issue how the execution of my motion has been processed? The members of the CDA can well imagine that the transposition of legislation on paper into everyday practice takes time, especially because the employees of healthcare providers have to ask themselves first whether the imposition of this forced care is necessary and whether there really are no other ways to provide that care. One question that the CDA asked about the report is whether this repair law interferes with the legal certainty of the client, whether it is under the Care and Force Act or the Law mandatory ggz. The government states in the note following the report that the present legislative proposal allows for simplification of parts, with support from interested parties and without affecting the foundations of the laws. These are parts which are now a burden on implementation, but would be without any added value for legal protection. The Secretary of State and the Minister have not yet convinced me and my group that all the proposed amendments to this repair law do not contradict the legal protection of the client or his legal representation, especially if we look at the legal history. That is why I have two amendments, which I tabled together with D66. The general rule is that the validity of an ongoing authorisation shall be extended until the court has decided on the subsequent authorisation no later than three weeks after the application has been lodged. In practice, however, it often appears impossible to complete an expert study within three weeks. Therefore, no time limit is set at this point. Instead, it is proposed to provide only that the judge should give a ruling as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. The CDA understands that the practice may be that you need more time than three weeks. But releasing the deadline completely, I don't understand. That is why I have tabled an amendment to set the deadline at six weeks. The court shall then take a decision on the subsequent authorisation not later than six weeks after the application has been lodged. This time limit is consistent with the General Administrative Law and provides clarity to the interested party, the client concerned, by including a time limit. Of course, it may be sooner, within that six-week period. However, the CDA considers that this proposal creates both the court and the expert space for the examination of experts to be carried out in an orderly manner, without prejudice to the further procedure and legal protection of the client. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to this proposal from the CDA. Mr. Chairman. The draft law proposes that the initial requirement of a written decision of the caretaker should lapse prior to the provision of the acute involuntary care. Alternatively, it is proposed that the caretaker should record the decision as soon as possible. No distinction is made as to what decision that is. There are many different forms of forced care. Here, too, the CDA understands that the field of work needs more space and that the practice of care is often more uncomfortable than the theory, but I do want a time limit within which it must be written down. Especially in the case of heavier forms of involuntary care, involuntary care in the home situation, working withzzp'ers in the care or replacement forces, it is important that there is a written decision. That's why I put in a 48-hour deadline. On that point, too, I would like to hear a response to the amendment. Then, together with Mr Van der Laan, I tabled an amendment to maintain the requirement that the expert should be registered on the basis of the Law on Occupations in Individual Healthcare, the BIG Act, including the second stage assessment, if no agreement has been found. That amendment was tabled by Mr Van der Laan, but we have therefore co-signed it. In this way, there is more certainty about the decision on willlessness, which makes the rights of the client more secure. Then the law proposes that the medical certificate be cancelled for interim termination of coercive measures. As an example is mentioned a crisis shot because of a short-term psychotic image. We can imagine, but doesn't that give us the risk of yo-yo recordings, and that people are being sent home too soon? I often hear this from people when we talk about people with confused behavior. I would like a commitment from the Secretary of State to include this in the evaluation we expect at the end of this year. Another point is the external expert. This is required by the Health and Force Act, but also by the Law mandatory ggz. The letter we received from ActiZ and other organisations on 21 May advocates moving from an external expert to an independent expert, someone who has not given care to the person concerned for at least one year. That could be an external person, but also someone who works in the same organization. We have seen the Van der Laan/Van der Staaij amendment. I therefore ask the rulers to explain to us why they are not changing the law to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	Of course, we spent about ten years in this house replacing the BOPZ Act. Those have become the Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz. That's been discussed for ten years in this house, including by the CDA. The CDA was very involved in this legislation. Now, this legislation came into force in 2020, which was another transitional year, and actually, this law doesn't start to fly until 2021. And then the CDA comes here with a bunch of amendments. I don't understand much about that. You're not even waiting for the evaluation. You come up with all these amendments, because things have to be different. In my opinion, you only make the round to the left, instead of the round to the right again. What is the reason why the CDA makes so many amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	Well, it was even suggested in February that this be just a hammer piece. That is what we, as CDA, are for, precisely for the reason Mrs Agema calls it: we have a law that has just come into force; it has barely started and now there are all kinds of comments and changes coming out of the field. We then said, also in view of the reactions of the field: if there are apparently so many problems, then we want to talk about it seriously. We have asked very critical questions during the written consultation. But on the other hand, we do not understand why it is not said: if we make serious changes, will we not do so more fully with better legal protection for the client and the patient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	I don't get it anyway. These laws came into force in 2020. Quite a lot happened in 2020. Of course, the institutions have had to deal with an enormous corona crisis. That has had a huge impact on the staff. If you have too few staff, then that has another huge impact on, for example, the Care and Force Act. Does the CDA do the right problem-setting and problem-weighting? Wouldn't it be much better to wait for the evaluation to come up with all the amendments, while there is also an immense crisis in the sector and therefore much more absenteeism and staff who are no longer keen on it? Quite specifically: if you have too few employees, you also don't have someone to help a demented lady to the toilet that is still continent, but for whom you no longer have time to help her to go to the bathroom, which makes you obliged to put on an inco. So you get coercive care, but that coercive care is the result of too few employees. My question to the CDA is, aren't you getting ahead of yourself? Shouldn't you have the problems before you make all these amendments to a law that really doesn't fly yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	I fully agree with Mrs Agema that the corona crisis has placed a huge additional burden on care. That has also been one of our questions: shouldn't you just take a little more time, especially because of the corona crisis, because implementation couldn't get off to a good start in 2020? But then we can see from the field that in the corona crisis you experience even more that there are a lot of administrative burdens. They say that we can give the same good care, but with less administrative burden. In the end, this has led us to consider: we want to take a serious look at this, but then we want to tighten up the law a little. The CDA therefore has a great deal of difficulty with these proposed legislative changes. If we are going to go along with that, then this bill needs to be repaired for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally, on the administrative burden. That is, of course, a very nice magic word here in the Chamber: if you are for less administrative burdens, then you are doing well. But these administrative burdens do provide for the legal protection of the patient; a very different kind of administrative burden from what we normally talk about in this house. The organisation MIND quite rightly says: the more staff you have, the less deficits you have, the less you need for coercive care and therefore by definition have less administrative burden. The CDA is actually changing all sorts of things: it has to be simplified, because we have to make it easier; the legal protection of the client is not very important, because the field requires changes and the field is under enormous pressure. Finally, my question is: what exactly are you doing? Would you not first look at what happens after this crisis and whether we can improve the workforce and improve the qualification of the staff, so that there can also be compulsive care and therefore there is no administrative burden at all for this coercive care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mrs Agema absolutely has a point that, at a time when there are fewer employees, is giving rise to a greater burden and that you can get into a different situation sooner. Mrs Agema is right to say that these laws are designed to protect clients and patients. That was the goal. That is precisely why the CDA says: we can do two things. By definition, we can vote against this law. That has really been an internal discussion, because we have barely started; just let it have a chance. We have gathered many comments and experiences from the field. We have also asked many questions in the written consultation. We say, "Okay, we're willing to look at it." But Mrs Agema will also see that the amendments that we have now tabled as CDA are again strengthening the rights and protection of clients and patients in relation to the legislative proposal put forward by the directors. Mr. Chairman. In the same letter from ActiZ and other organisations, it is argued that clients with mental illness can be covered by the Law on care and coercion, as is the case, for example, for korsakov patients. To this end, the CDA has also made an amendment. With this I make it possible to make a switch from the law mandatory ggz to the law care and coercion. Article 38, tenth paragraph of the Health and Force Act already provides for a possibility to make a switch from the Care and Force Act to the Compulsory ggz Act. So we want to go the other way too. Why doesn't that opportunity to go that other way be offered? The CDA simply wants the right care in the right place, has tabled this amendment and would like to hear a response from the rulers. Another question raised by GGZ Nederland about the transition between the Law mandatory ggz and the Wet forensic care. The Minister for Legal Protection shall interfere in the authorisation of care until termination. A medical director must obtain permission from the Minister for Legal Protection for the temporary interruption or termination of compulsory care. This creates a mixture of civil law and criminal law and creates legal inequality between patients who receive mandatory care through the authorisation of a criminal justice officer and patients who were not involved in the criminal justice system. If the criminal court determines that it is appropriate for the person concerned to receive compulsory care under the Law, then we believe that all responsibility for that compulsory care should also lie with the relevant administrative body, the medical director. Does the Secretary of State, but also his colleague, the Minister of JenV, see this problem? In our view, it is undesirable for compulsory care to be used as a disguised sanction. Care is not a punishment within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Law. Can this be reflected, if necessary in a written response later? Finally, medical professional secrecy. Following sad events and incidents involving people with confused behavior, the CDA has repeatedly advocated that medical professional secrecy should be more balanced and that the interests of clients and patients vis-à-vis the interests of the victim and society should be better balanced and that there should be a legal basis for this when information is to be provided. The Secretary of State, in the note following the report, states several times how a doctor can provide any information without fault by relying on that medical professional secrecy, rather than adequately regulating it. I also understand that this must be done carefully. That is why I would like to table a motion together with my colleague in the VVD in the second term to examine whether and how this should be dealt with. Hopefully this will be taken into account in the evaluation at the end of the year. For the CDA, it is important that there is a balance between legal certainty of patients and clients who receive forced care and the practical feasibility of laws. It is clear that we still have many questions about the law as it currently stands in the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u12	I don't think the chair is working anymore, Mr. Chairman. I see I have an hour and a half, and he doesn't want to go up and down anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u13	If you have an hour and a half, I wouldn't make a point of that if I were you. Do you want lower or higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u14	That hour and a half may stand, Mr President, but I will not do it to you to talk it over. Mr. Chairman. In this first term I replace my chief Kees van der Staaij. He has the honour to speak to an illustrious cluster today about the formation of a new cabinet. I would say: if they come out this morning, then I think the Netherlands will look pretty good. But that aside. Then this law. It has been less than a year and a half since the Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz entered into force. Today we are once again debating an amendment to these laws. Again, because it is now the third repair law in a row, each time with the aim of increasing the feasibility of the laws and correcting the technical errors. Three repairs in three years underline that coercive laws are not ordinary laws. It has been discussed for years. Mrs Agema has just indicated this in an interruption debate towards the CDA. But the question you can ask is: are they not too complex and are they feasible? And do they not lead to a substantial increase in administrative burden? Let it be clear: the SGP shares the desire to use as little coercive measures as possible in healthcare, as the laws have contributed to the awareness of existing thinking and working methods about involuntary care since its entry into force. That, I think, is good to underline. At the same time, however, there must be a balance between control that is necessary and trust in the professionalism of the care workers. Our concern at the time was that the Law would become an unexecutable paper tiger with its very detailed roadmap. The German poet Von Goethe once wrote: If you had to study all the laws, you would no longer have time to violate them. The excess of detailed rules was already an important reason for the SGP at the time to vote in 2013 yes, it was a long time ago against that Care and Force Act. We are now seeing implementation problems in practice. It is therefore worth complimenting that the cabinet will come forward with amendments before the first legislative review. So you can also put that compliment in your pocket. But honesty requires that the proposals contained in this and also in the previous repair legislation are mainly technical in nature and that, unfortunately, the greater bottlenecks in the implementation of the law continue to persist. If you think about what I am talking about, I am referring in particular to the administrative burden that this law entails. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, therefore, I would like to make a number of proposals that will help to increase the feasibility of the laws, reduce the burden of burdens and give more space and confidence to healthcare professionals. As far as we are concerned, we are also taking advantage of the opinions contained in the reports of the Van Dam Committee and the Bosman Committee. In particular, the Bosman Committee makes a few clear statements on how to deal with the feasibility of legislation. One of these important lessons is: make sure that there is more room for customisation in the execution. Concrete example: in practice, there is sometimes a need to treat patients with mental illness in individual cases not under the Law mandatory ggz, but under the Law care and coercion. The rulers want this to be investigated further. But that means that the solution is going to be a while. What do the leaders think of the proposal of the field parties to allow a competent doctor to establish that a client with a mental disorder can be treated under the Law on care and coercion in such cases? The Care and Force Act also provides for a roadmap that ensures that decisions on involuntary care are carefully taken, as involuntary care needs to be regularly evaluated by several qualified care providers. Among care professionals there is understanding for a regular evaluation. But they do ask us: don't put it so hard, with each time a varying composition. Especially if a resident shows no resistance and the family agrees, such an evaluation should be easier. Save a robust evaluation for the complex situations. How does the Minister view this? One-off advice from an external expert should be sought in a roadmap. The replacement of the external expert by an independent expert would, in our view, greatly simplify implementation. That idea is also shown to us from the field. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this point together with D66. Mr. Chairman. Article 13 of the Care and Force Act now provides that the healthcare provider, who provides involuntary care on the basis of the care plan for the first time, must obtain the consent of the care provider. Fortunately, the cabinet now wants to amend this provision. With regard to the SGP, we can simplify the article even further. A healthcare provider may be expected to assess at all times whether involuntary care should be provided in the given circumstances and whether in the given circumstances a less significant form of involuntary care is possible than prescribed by the care plan. At the same time, the SGP considers that the care provider can and can be expected to repeat the multidisciplinary assessment on the basis of which the involuntary care is included in the care plan. A nurse or caregiver may assume that he or she can provide the involuntary care included in the care plan in principle. That is why the SGP has also tabled an amendment on this point. The costs of the Dutch Healthcare Authority show that the implementation of the Health and Force Act costs at least 111 million euros more than was thought. At least, because the research covered almost exclusively the use of a roadmap in the healthcare institutions, but many other aspects have not been investigated. My questions are as follows. Is there gonna be another follow-up? When will it become clear whether the additional costs will lead to a tariff adjustment? Will the Minister also carry out a similar cost study for the compulsory ggz Act? The December report of the health inspection shows that the financing of the Wzd officer or the deployment of an external expert is unclear. Are additional financial arrangements with healthcare offices possible for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the review of the law. The enforcement laws would be reviewed no later than two years after entry into force. In the letter of 17 December last, I read that the evaluation is being cut up partly because of corona and that the final report will not be completed until mid 2022. According to research, such a phased approach is needed in order to arrive at well-founded conclusions. Let me just say right away: I understand that. At the same time, I am concerned that proposals to improve the implementation of the law are being delayed. The Minister and the Secretary of State indicate that they will continue to discuss bottlenecks with the parties concerned, but this does not, of course, guarantee rapid improvements in advance. So my final question to the rulers: how do they see themselves in the coming years? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you. Sporty that you have not used the one and a half hour. We appreciate that. Then a good moment: we have a maiden speech, namely from Mrs Van den Hil of the VVD. She is addressing us for the first time. She has immediately requested a twenty-minute speaking time, so she is going to work out just as well. We're gonna sit tight for that. As soon as she has spoken, I will suspend for the congratulations. That is what I am doing, because the group secretary of the VVD has also arrived. We don't want to make life difficult. I call Mrs Van den Hil.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion. Two laws that entered into force in January 2020 are already undergoing their second repair and the actual evaluation is planned at the end of this year. It is good to keep looking seriously at what can be improved. As far as I am concerned, that is right, because we are talking about freedom or, in fact, the taking away of freedom. Freedom, the highest good that exists for everyone and which we are even more aware of with the current pandemic. For the first time in a long time we could not go free in the Netherlands where we wanted and we had to consider an external enemy, the COVID-19 virus. Necessary, but not less profound. During my work at the nursing home I saw what this does to people, but also outside the nursing home that freedom is under pressure. Mr. Chairman. Then how beautiful is it for me to have my maiden speech on this subject today? That's why I'm taking the liberty of telling you about my own freedom experience first. I was lucky enough to grow up in freedom. Born and raised in Goes or, as we say in Zeeland, "Hoes," I had the space to develop on every level. Within the family my brother and I were given the opportunity to discover for ourselves where our talents were. I'm still very grateful to my parents for that. I wanted to go to the Olympics as a top athlete, but my talents turned out to be more at chess and bridge. Also in high school I went to, I was given the freedom to carry out what I stood for. That's how I had a sticker on my bag with "nuclear energy, yes, please." A strong family bond on the side of both parents made me enjoy the talents of everyone in the family and could experience my childhood together with them. My world therefore extended beyond Zeeland. Every summer vacation I travelled to The Hague, where my father's family lived, and I met the Binnenhof at an early age. So perhaps not entirely coincidentally I am now moving back and forth between Goes and The Hague. And with my uncle, who was in charge of various liquor stores in the Netherlands, I travelled all over the country. There I got acquainted with doing business and the fact that money has to be earned first in order to spend it later. Nowadays my brother and sister-in-law give me the freedom to enjoy my cousins and to hang out with them so much. They keep me informed of what's going on in youth, and I take them into my world. I enjoy this intensely. Mr. Chairman. When I was a kid, I found out my heart was gonna be in care. I like to take care of people, but above all to make sure that one can keep one's own direction. I wanted to go to medical school. However, I did not get that freedom; I was excluded. Yet, through the function of X-ray lab, I ended up in care. That's where I worked for 35 years, started cleaning and finally as a location manager at nursing homes. Mr. Chairman. Freedom was very important and important to me. It is not by chance that I have always been involved in organisations that have a strong interest in this concept. In the hospitals where I worked, I was given the freedom to develop my profession. At the Regional Care Foundation, the nursing home where I worked, freedom was even one of the pillars of the care provided. And now, as a member of the Group of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, I experience the freedom to be who I am, to say what I think, and to share my knowledge and experience asked and unsolicited. Within the Lower House there is freedom in debate and freedom in expressing what you think. I now take that freedom to briefly share what I noticed during this first period. We're looking for trust. That's important. But my experience is that trust isn't given until you give it to me. Trust doesn't grow in my opinion if I can't have the confidence to walk safely and freely through the House of Representatives. From my experience in the nursing home, I was used to strictly sticking to all the corona rules, and everyone did. However, this is not always self-evident in the Lower House. Together, we must act on trust, with in mind the people who do it for. Together we come to the understanding of what we want to achieve for them and then, each with its own political ideology, see how we can implement this. Don't always try to score, but really from the content see what's good for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Within the nursing home world I also had to deal with the Law special admissions in psychiatric hospitals, later the new Wzd and Wvggz, the subject we are discussing today. The switch from BOPZ to these two new laws was a complicated but important development. These two laws help people and their families when they are in a situation in which they no longer see a way out. It is a specific form of concern that is used only in exceptional cases and as a last resort, a last resort to prevent further suffering and misery. It is therefore also a concern where additional safeguards are needed. And yes, it is always balancing between the individual's freedom, protecting the individual and the professional's space. The VVD supports the purpose of these two intrinsically good laws, namely to avoid involuntary or mandatory care as much as possible. After all, we are talking about a specific form of care with a binding character, care that can be given in the new situation both at home and through inclusion in an institution. Mr. Chairman. We have before us the government's second interim repair proposal to simplify the implementation of these laws. This shows once again that the paper is different from the practice. Over the past few weeks, apart from my own experiences from practice, I have also taken note of the many signals from the field of work. Administrative burdens are high and procedures in practice are not always easy to follow. As a result, healthcare professionals can spend less time caring for their clients. The VVD believes that all bottlenecks should be carefully investigated through the forthcoming legislative review. The VVD shares the government's view that this change of law is not the place to make far-reaching changes, but would like the Minister's and the State Secretary's assurance that these signals will be taken into account in the legislative review to be carried out. Simplifying implementation can really only be achieved by looking for improvements together with the field of work. That makes this second repair proposal no less important now. Apart from some technical improvements and omissions, it is now possible, for example, to make the bsn number available digitally to the Health and Youth Inspectorate. This reduces administrative burdens when passing on business. In addition, monitoring can be better carried out. In doing so, I am committed to continuing to seek the balance between additional protection for the client and administrative burden for the professional. With regard to the time limit for the delivery of a care authorisation by the court, the protection of the client deserves special attention. In the government's proposal, the VVD reads that a ruling on a request will follow as soon as possible. A carte blanche for justice is not desirable as far as the VVD is concerned. I would like to hear from the government how it is going to ensure that "as soon as possible" is actually "as soon as possible." The VVD considers it important to give institutions time and space to learn how to work under these two laws of care and become familiar with them. Not only for healthcare institutions, it is a search for the best possible way of good care and help for this vulnerable target group. That is what we have concluded from recent reports on the immediate termination of the welfare allowance for ggz clients who are forced to take up. The VVD asked oral and written questions about this last week. The signal from healthcare organisations is that it has gone wrong in a number of cases, something we were not sure about in Question Time. But there is also much unclear about the extent and causes of this. Apart from Amsterdam, we do not know in which municipalities this has occurred. I think it is very important that we clarify these issues very quickly, especially now that a number of cases have been reported in the Volkskrant last week. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The concerns of the field of work about the functioning of both laws have been clearly audible from day one. That is why I would like to ask the Minister and the Secretary of State the following questions. The motion adopted unanimously by Mr Van Wijngaarden/Van Toorenburg was a clear message to the government. Can the Secretary of State explain why the Court has not yet been informed about the state of the administrative burden arising from the Wvggz and the steps taken to reduce it? Had parts of this approach not been included in the repair proposal? Can the Secretary of State explain more about this? One of the pillars of both laws was that there should be a reduction in forced recordings. Is this also the case? Can the government reflect on that? What's her picture of this? Another important pillar was the possibility of more tailor-made care. Do you recognise that tailor-made care is indeed better guaranteed? Would you like to include this explicitly in the legal assessment? Does the government recognise that crisis measures should be regularly extended because the healthcare authorisation could not be completed in time due to lack of availability of healthcare professionals and judges? Implementing the laws brings with it extra time and therefore additional costs. The NZa's cost investigation doesn't lie about it. The structural additional costs for implementing the Roadmap within the Wzd alone amount to EUR 111 million per year. Does the Minister share the NZa's analysis? And how does she feel about this? Mr President, I will conclude. Freedom is the greatest good we have. Freedom in who you are, how you think, how you feel, how you want to organize your life and who you love. Freedom in acting from your profession, within a group in the House of Representatives. Freedom in your head, to make your feelings speak. That is why we must continue to deal very carefully with deprivation of liberty and always doubt whether it is necessary to deprive one's freedom. As Confucius said, doubt is the watchdog of insight. I'll close with a fairy, a poem of eleven words in the poem form one, two, three, four, one. I try to make these poems daily and regularly share them on Twitter under #elfjevandag, so that I can tell what my feelings are. Today they are as follows: "Freedom/each man/his own right/in any way/carefully." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you. That's a maiden speech from the book. Congratulations on that. Some people who make a maiden speech sometimes have to find a slightly cramped bridge between their own background and the subject of the day, but you are fluent in each other. It was also very wise to mention all your nephews and nieces. That saves in terms of preferred voices and gifts with Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u18	They just turned 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u19	They just turned 18. "Hose" can be proud of you. I would ask you to take a seat here. It is my honour to be the first to congratulate you, and then perhaps there are others who would like to do the same. Congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u20	Very good. Then we'll go on cheerful. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik from the Labour Party. She's gonna talk to us for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u21	It's extremely funny. I can now pretend to be very spontaneous, but I had already written congratulations to Mrs Van den Hil for her beautiful maiden speech with freedom and fairies. I think that will soon become a great concept in The Hague. There's no other way. Mr. Chairman. I've been whispering to the rulers for a while: if I start asking stupid questions or making stupid comments, forgive me. I think it is quite a complicated bill, as a new spokesperson for Health. I'm gonna do my best to make it a little chocolate and ask the right questions. I think the first one is the best question about evaluation. It's already running. This is actually an interim intervention to solve the biggest problems and bottlenecks in the legislative proposal. Is this final evaluation really expected at the end of this year or is it even longer? What does the further process look like now? We are now six months before the end of the year, but what exactly is the timeline? Mr. Chairman. Well, let's talk about that evaluation. One of the main bottlenecks in the legislative proposal is not dealt with by this repair, in particular where the overlap takes place between these two legislative proposals. This seems complicated and it is difficult to deal with it properly, but it may be advisable for the cabinet to look ahead to this for a while. Where exactly are these bottlenecks and where are any solutions? In other words, how do we ensure that this evaluation has the power of thought to actually overcome it? Otherwise, I'll know how it goes. That sounds negative, but I don't mean it like that. But then we will have an evaluation and if the aim is not to try to overcome the main bottleneck, then perhaps the next repair will be delayed. Mr. Chairman. A bottleneck that I experience in the proposed amendment is the decision-making period that falls short of court in the imposition of a decision. I get the background. In recent months, I have been approached mainly by family members. They say that permission for a brother or sister ends, but that there is no decision yet. They're gonna be afraid of having a problem. I see the need to come up with a solution if decision-makers are not sufficiently protective. At the same time, of course, it is the rights of people themselves. You cannot remain in an infinite Kafkaian state because the prosecution or other parties cannot make decisions or because it is complicated with the passage times in the judiciary. Mrs Van den Berg has asked very specific questions about this. There is also an amendment. I would like to hear a response and an opinion from the cabinet on this. I particularly like to hear how we should deal with this tension field. I do not think open ends are desirable, but at the same time I see and hear the tension in people themselves, especially in family members who are confronted with it. Mr. Chairman. Another problem is the link between civil law and criminal law. Mrs Van den Berg specifically asked for this. I have four specific questions. I'm just gonna go read it up because I want to do it very precisely. My first question is whether the cabinet recognises that patients with Wfz authorisation from the criminal court cannot automatically go to a regular ggz institution. Does the cabinet also recognise the risk of mixing criminal law and civil law by making a link between the Wvggz and the Wfz? What does the cabinet think of the concerns expressed by industry organisations about mixing forensic psychiatry with regular ggz? In what way is this amendment in the interest of the patient in the Wvggz or the Wfz? I am also asking this in the light of the fact that forensic care is already a concern in itself. We have had a number of cases in recent months and years that show that it is vulnerable. In that light and with the knowledge of those matters, I ask these questions. Mr. Chairman. I had not prepared the following, but Mrs Van den Berg and the colleague of the VVD spoke about it for a reason, namely the tension that arises with medical professional secrecy in relation to. That may not flow directly from this bill, but it is an important point. I would therefore also like to endorse this question. Mr. Chairman. Another important point that arises from this and on which there is an amendment tabled by Mr Kwint, if I am correct, is the maintenance of assistance when you are included. I think that's really an omission. Mrs Van den Hil has already drawn attention to this this week, including in her contribution. I would like to add my voice to that. As a result, I wonder, apart from maintaining the assistance, whether we have sufficient side effects. Are there, for example, people who unintentionally lose their accommodation, not so much because the assistance may fall away, but for other reasons? In short, in the light of the assistance that we know has to be arranged in a different way, are there any other side effects that we may not have enough in mind? Because of course this is not necessarily a group that is used to defend themselves much and hard, because these people are often out of the picture and have no people who speak for them either. Unfortunately, we know that policies are often well-targeted, but can also be very detrimental. That is why I specifically ask the Secretary of State to look at this issue as far as assistance is concerned. Are there any other unintended side effects we don't have in mind right now? Mr. Chairman. I had one last question. At least, I think so, but I'm gonna take a look. My question concerns the deletion of customer information on the medical certificate relating to the Wzd. On this deletion they say: Article 27 (4) is actually superfluous, because in practice this always happens. Why shouldn't you maintain it if it does happen in practice? Shouldn't we reverse the reasoning? I do not see the added value of that deletion. Can the cabinet explain that to me? Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna pee on my petal. I'm just gonna take a look back and see if I've forgotten something really essential. I get a short nod from no, so I think I did ask my most important questions. For the rest, I would point out to the chairman that the clock doesn't work on me either. I'm well within ten minutes, but this might be a point of interest for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u22	The technical service is already ready with screwdrivers to fix this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u23	Oh, I thought I could talk to you personally about that. Well, that's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u24	You'd like that, wouldn't you? I would like to give the floor to Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If a law contains technical shortcomings or omissions that need to be repaired, we will have no objection to that. Since this legislative amendment also aims to simplify implementation, there are a few questions, such as: why now? Both laws did not enter into force until 10 years of preparation last year. So there has not been a substantial period of time. The question that also arises is whether the problem for which this change of law should provide a solution is not a lack of care workers, a concern that has only become greater during the corona crisis. We know that the lack of sufficient and sufficiently qualified staff leads to more coercive care. It is therefore important to know first whether this is the reason, before rules are deleted. After all, we are dealing with involuntary care and we must be careful about it. What if an older lady who is still a continent when she comes to live in a nursing home has to pee more than ten times a day and there are not enough staff to take her to the bathroom? Putting on an inco if she doesn't want to, that's compulsion. But that is coercive care because there are too few employees. A shortage of sufficiently qualified staff can also lead to compulsive care. What if no one wonders whether the young disabled can't get rid of his wheelchair blade after 20 years, it's tried and can? What if no one's ringing the bell for the young man who's been involved in this house a lot and whose name we won't mention anymore, who's been tied up in solitary? If no one had asked himself that question, if no one who is sufficiently qualified had gone to work with it, he would still be there instead of being able to walk outside with his mother on the beach later! Sufficient and sufficiently qualified staff ensure that coercive care is avoided and that care workers are on the job floor instead of being behind the computer for the accountability burden. We therefore support the basic idea of MIND: reducing administrative burden by applying less compulsive care. This also fits perfectly with the original objective of both laws: to avoid coercion as much as possible. If that is taken to heart, we have made a lot of progress, I say to the Secretary of State. My question to him is which part of the healthcare providers, despite all the human concerns, manage to bring down coercive care with sufficient and qualified staff. Wouldn't that prove that others can do it? The Health and Force Act also regulates compulsion care at home. Alzheimer's Netherlands finds many problems with this: "We have always been against compulsive care at home. When it's time for coercive care, it's time to start living in a protected environment." In his great wisdom, Rutte II closed the nursing homes and a third of the ggz sites. The people who have to deal with compulsion at home have checked. What if a starting demented lady who has to stay at home is sitting in a wheelchair, gets a table stuck in front of her during dinner and home care forgets to take it away before leaving? She'll be left alone. What's that? What if the door is locked, because otherwise a demented gentleman goes wandering in the street and then pulls at the door furiously? These are all signals that indicate that it is time for a protected living environment, rather than coercive care at home. In the documents we read that there are not enough qualified employees to apply this coercive care at home. I'm getting chills about that. What is the Secretary of State going to do about this, I ask. Does he share the view that coercive care should not be applied by health care workers who have not been trained for it? I'd like a response. Does he share the view that the consequence should then be that someone is included in a protected living environment? We have always been in favour of reducing unnecessary administrative burdens, but this is a simplification of compulsory inclusion and coercive care. That must be handled very carefully. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to explain, by simplification, whether it is in the interest of the person concerned: the patient, the client, the resident or others. What is urgent, and can be regulated by this law, is that the compulsory withdrawal does not ensure that the welfare allowance can be stopped. During oral Question Time last week, I could hardly believe that there are municipalities that are doing this. They do it because they can. But the people who are forced to be admitted by the government because of a mental illness are not criminals. They will never be helped if, after their forced admission, they go back home, have no home or are in debt, because the government cut the welfare allowance. I would like to say to the Secretary of State that the Participation Act really deserves an early amendment on this point. Since he has not yet promised to do so, I would like to table an amendment on this point, but I saw that Mr Kwint was ahead of me. We will therefore support his amendment. Finally, Mr President. I am not reluctant to oppose this law if the Secretary of State comes forward with a good explanation of our questions. But there are now a number of amendments which make it difficult, for example the amendment on item No. 10 van Van der Laan en Van den Berg. They want not only a doctor to be about willlessness, but that all BIG registered can do so. I'm having a hard time with that. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 14 van Van der Laan and Van der Staaij. This is intended to replace the external expert with an expert who is independent of the care process. These are simplifications that I do not like at the moment. In fact, I have received too little justification from the proposers, so perhaps they can come up with that. In any case, as I have said, we are not indifferent to this legislative amendment, but we do need explanation, explanation and... I see that Mrs van den Berg has risen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u26	She's a little hesitant, so I don't know if she's trying to interrupt. Yeah, she does want to interrupt. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I waited until you gave me permission to say something. I would like to turn to the question, or indeed Mrs Agema's comment, about that amendment on BIG registered persons. It's actually the other way around. The proposal now states that people who are not registered with BIG can also determine their willlessness. We believe that there should be at least a requirement that you should be BIG-registered in order to establish willlessness. So I'm not saying that that could be anyone, but you must be at least BIG-registered for willlessness. That is the intention of our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u28	Mrs van den Berg has proposed so many amendments that I probably did not interpret them correctly. I am going to look at it again, but I do need a more substantive explanation on all these amendments, because, as has already been said in our debate on the interruption, I do not think that in the first year in which a law has to fly you have to make all kinds of changes, not at all in terms of coercive care and compulsory inclusion. If all these amendments are adopted, not only this amendment but all the others, I have a hard mind that it will all get better. I do not really see any simplifications in any way, but you said that with the amendment to item No. 10 represents a tightening. Let's take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u29	I think that is the case with some of the other amendments. The legislative proposal then proposes an extension, which we and colleagues are restricting again, so it is put back, in whole or in part. At least that applies to the amendment I was just discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u30	Yes, but that does not apply to all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Van der Laan from the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u32	The microphone's good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u33	You're lucky.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr. Chairman. Good thing we're discussing this second repair law of the Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz today. These laws have indeed had a long run-up, over ten years. It is therefore particularly important that within one and a half years we should deal with two repair laws in order to restore omissions and improve their implementation in practice. The first repair was purely technical; we could remove it as a hammer piece. However, in addition to technical repairs, this legislative amendment also includes some important policy adjustments. Mr. Chairman. However, the need is high. Over the last year and a half, the D66 group has received quite a lot of signals from the practice that these laws have led to major problems in implementation. Therefore, first of all, I would like to congratulate VWS on the speed with which these repairs have been carried out. There was always a difficult dilemma for our group, for the legal treatment and now again. We want to be ready for the field in which people like to spend their time providing care, rather than filling out all kinds of accountability documents. But we also want the rights of patients and clients to be well protected by compulsory or forced care, so that it really is absolutely necessary. That balance must always be found. My group would like to weigh them well on every point in this law. This can also lead to different outcomes from one place to another. Let me put it first: after ten years of preparation, it is really not appropriate to re-examine the law now, especially in view of the forthcoming legislative review which we consider to be very important. That is why I am asking the directors: do I understand that this evaluation of both laws is fully completed by the end of this year? What is then the lead time of any changes that can be made on the basis of that evaluation? Can the Cabinet reflect on how the amendments to this proposal have been made, so it has not been explicitly chosen to await the evaluation? We also ask these questions because we get the idea that the design of these laws is not the only reason why there are so many problems with them. For although these laws have been worked on for years at the Ministry, with the Chamber and with the domes, it could still happen that many people have been attacked in practice by the content of these laws. The inspection also explicitly mentions this, especially for the Care and Force Act. It would, of course, only be a symptom reduction if we were to make adjustments now, while the underlying problems are linked to a lack of implementation. It is now almost one and a half years after the introduction and we have the transition year well behind us, but we still hear that in practice people only recently really understand certain parts of the laws or apply them correctly. Not unwillingness, but ignorance. Can the Minister and/or the Secretary of State indicate whether all the people in the care that have to do with this law really have enough tools to deal with this? On what basis do you assess that? The relationship with the Law BIG. In general, we see many technical proposals and repairs in this law, but also some policy adjustments, which mitigate or remove conditions from the laws in order to reduce administrative burdens. I will go into the specific points of those laws in more detail, but I would like to stress once again that it is a major dilemma to maintain the right balance between ensuring patient and client rights and reducing administrative burdens that are much needed. In view of the upcoming evaluation, I therefore ask the directors to take a closer look at the coincidence between these laws and other laws that ensure the quality of care, such as the Wkkgz, the Law BIG and the WGBO. I would like a commitment on that. Many of the checks-and-balances in these laws, especially in the area of adequate communication and balance of interests, could also be taken under the standard care or professional implementation of a BIG-registered profession. Mr. Chairman. Again, my aim is not to repeat the legal treatment here, but to ask the rulers to reflect on this, particularly in view of the changes they are proposing. For example, the letter of amendment regulates in particular how communication takes place in a very detailed manner, which should already be part of good care or good care on the basis of other laws, or a condition for a BIG-registered profession. It is, in particular, because of the good checks-and-balances from other laws, such as the BIG Act, that my group is reluctant to waive the requirement for BIG registration in certain actions. I would like to point out whether someone is willing or not. This is a major step, which must be taken carefully, of course by the healthcare provider. Of course, it can have a significant impact on the client and his or her neighbors. My group, together with the CDA Group, is therefore proposing an amendment calling for the determination to be determined by a BIG-registered expert. Of course, we would like a response to that. It still offers more room than the current prescription that it should be a doctor, but provides a little more certainty. This point can also be taken into account in the analysis we want in the legal assessment of a coincidence between these laws and the BIG Act. So we're actually gonna sit in the middle of it. The external independent expert. As a follow-up, my group believes that we can expect health care providers to be responsible for the requirement to be involved in an extension of forced care in a WZD care plan, based on the existing requirements for good care. The requirement that the expert should not be attached to the same institution is therefore disproportionate and leads to disproportionate administrative burdens. That is why, together with Mr Van der Staaij, I am tabling an amendment to amend this requirement of an external expert to that of an independent expert, i.e. an expert who has not been involved in the care process of the client in question. So you have the fresh look, but not the big obstacles that healthcare providers are now experiencing in order to provide good care. I hope for a constructive response from the Minister. Then the client confidant. In the inspection report we read that the client confidant is not yet present everywhere. That is cause for concern for our group because they have a role to play. Can the Minister explain the reason for this? If the reason for this is that there is not enough awareness of the client confidant, can the Minister indicate what she is going to do about it? The confluence. There are many points that we get from the practice regarding the convergence of these two laws. This concerns, for example, the problem that it is difficult to provide customization for someone where it is not directly clear whether it is better helped with care covered by the Health and Force Act or better with care under the Compulsory ggz Act. We also refer to the judgment of 4 August in which we see the concrete consequences of this omission. Can the directors promise that they will map this well in the legislative review and then come up with a legislative amendment in the short term if this can be resolved in a careful manner? From the inspection and field parties we also get disturbing signals about the coincidence with Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act. Can the Secretary of State respond to this and come to a good solution together with the Minister for Legal Protection? Informing clients. Perhaps the most shocking passage in the note to the report is that there may be more than twenty moments of information for a patient, twenty letters, for example, up to and including the time when compulsory care is actually provided for the first time. Then it is good to realize that too much information can damage the patient's position if the trees stop seeing the forest. Because when that happens, the person doesn't know when his or her interests are really at stake. Can an alternative be found for the endless stream of letters in the run-up to the law review? Especially the letters to the patient could be better structured but also parties such as lawyers and general practitioners. Wouldn't they better use a well-functioning portal? Is it really necessary, for example, to give all kinds of information to all concerned in the event of a crisis and, if this measure is extended for three days, to send the whole thing over and over again? This is an extreme example, I understand, but I'm really asking the rulers to look at this. We really think we can do better than this. Then we can really take steps to reduce administrative burdens. Mr. Chairman. I think my speaking time is still 20 minutes away. I'm almost there, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u35	Enjoy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u36	Well, well, I wouldn't say that. My next point concerns the judge's decision-making period and crisis-like situations. Our group has concerns about the time limit for the decision of the judge and the adapted rules in the event of crisis. I agree with the questions raised by my CDA colleague. We have tabled two amendments on this subject together, and I hope that the leaders will be constructive about it. Request for extension of care authorisation. We are seeing a radical change in the time when a petition can be filed, four weeks before the expiry to zero. We understand from the professionals in practice that this change is a significant improvement for them. That is why my group is sympathetic to it, but we do wonder whether there is enough time for the patient to be well informed and prepared. That's where you can see our dilemma. Those four weeks were there for a reason. Can the Secretary of State outline to us exactly what is happening from a patient's perspective if the petition to extend the care authorisation or crisis measure is indeed filed only on the day the previous one ends? Why was it not chosen to distinguish between a care authorisation and a crisis measure, since passing a crisis measure is more disproportionate than a care authorisation? In addition, we thank the directors for the letter of amendment which seeks to respond to various questions raised in the report. Of course, this change raises new questions. Can the Minister explain exactly how it is regulated with care providers if they apply a certain form of forced care for the first time? Can it be decided to waive all obligations to information if so decided in the healthcare plan? Or is the health care provider at risk of criminal prosecution? Is that now well dealt with by this letter of amendment, since Article 13 has not been deleted? So can the Minister take us with him how a caregiver should act? To conclude, as you can see, this difficult balance between reducing administrative burdens and well-protected rights for patients or clients still leads to many questions and sometimes to other choices made by my group. I look forward to the response of the rulers and I hope you will understand this dilemma as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u37	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Kwint of the SP Group. He was just gone, too. Then the staff looked for him, because he is not only the next speaker, but also the author of an amendment. But now he's flown again. Maybe his associate could take a look around the corner to see if he's anywhere. He went to the bathroom. Nerves? Of course, he's a perfectionist in the field of his wardrobe, so he's standing in front of the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u38	Tell a story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u39	No, we're really not gonna do that. I'm just going to give the floor to the next speaker. That is Mrs Pouw-Verweij from the JA group21. Now you're really late, Mr. Kwint. Mr. Kwint is out of breath, I'm establishing. I call Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you. I will do my best not to make up for the full time, so that Mr Kwint will also speak. Mr. Chairman. Forced care is an extreme remedy. On 1 January 2020, two laws came into force in order to provide a workable framework for psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients with the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion. Strict requirements of proportionality, effectiveness and safety must be met in order not to forget the rights of patients and clients. In the past year of transition, all the tension between the desire for simplicity and the inescapableness of complexity appeared. Following the Emergency Repair Act of October 2020, this bill is considered a necessary interim adjustment. We are talking about technical simplifications for which there is support and which guarantee the legal status of the client. In order to bring this legislation into line in depth, the government considers the evaluation to be a more appropriate time. We agree with this approach. However, a number of interested parties wonder whether tackling larger bottlenecks in the Wvggz can be unexpectedly delayed by the cabinet formation. What can the Minister say about the urgency of the evaluation and the timetable to be followed? The Cabinet notes a broad agreement on the objectives of both laws. However, implementation shows that the intended improved position of those concerned is not always fully realised. JA21 notes with agreement the pursuit of careful cutting in execution costs, without removing the legal protection that is inextricably linked to the execution. Appreciation of our side for the input into the preliminary process of parties that have been deeply explored in the details of this bill. The examination of this bill shows how essential it is for supply chain partners to be sufficiently involved, prepared and equipped to work with these frameworks. With due care and support, close contact with interested parties on the part of the institutions, professionals, clients and patients is indispensable. Rightly so, because these laws are about a vulnerable target group that is in a vulnerable position. With regard to influence and support, our group still has a few hesitations. On the one hand, we note a preparation resulting in an opinion by the Council of State without any substantive comments on the proposal. On the other hand, eleven national parties repeatedly put forward a handful of proposals to improve the law on care and coercion. At an earlier stage, the Secretary of State also indicated on behalf of the Minister how he dealt with these five points. However, the representatives of clients, professions and branches remain noticeably dissatisfied with the way their ideas have been incorporated into the legislative amendment, or rather: not incorporated. Can the Minister reflect on the continuing discontent of the parties concerned? After all, they represent those to whom the forced framework applies and those working with this framework. It is also a question of concrete matters which have been well-founded. For the sake of completeness, I am naming them, and I ask the Minister to indicate in the response by section why the cabinet does not want to accept the ideas. Create the possibility that clients with mental illness are subject to Wzd. Simplify the feasibility of the roadmap. Simplify the opportunities for clients to switch from care for the elderly or disability to mental health care and vice versa in the event of changing needs for care. Clarify the possibilities for exchanging information in the implementation of the Wzd. Provide the care provider with adequate assessment criteria in the performance of involuntary care. Finally, we agree with the question of a letter from the Minister of Justice and Security which addresses concerns about the mixing of civil law and criminal law by that newly created power of the criminal court to issue a regular healthcare authorisation. After all, care is not a sanction and legal inequality between patients covered by the same care framework should be avoided. Thank you. I think that was within the time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u41	Nicely done. I call Mr Kwint of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mrs Pouw-Verweij for letting me catch my breath. That's what needed to be done. I'm trying to split myself into two today, but I had to say halfway that that's not as simple as it seems. Then there are the legal changes. As some people here know, I have a history of disability care. I've been taking care of people with mental disabilities for about seven or eight years. This varied from older people with the intellectual level of a 1-year-old to young people with multiple behavioural problems. At that last group we also had a time-out room. I can tell you that in some cases that was badly needed. There were two residents who were rather focused on each other. An unfortunate coincidence was that one was about 1,40 meters and one kilo or 50, and the other 2,10 meters and one kilo or 150. When the latter got tired of it once, he jumped up, first grabbed his own coffee mug from plastic, as a precaution put it down and then grabbed my coffee mug from porcelain and threw it towards the other person. Then the rest of the living room had to pay for it and everything flew through the air until the dining table. Then it's nice if there's a place where someone can relax for a while: for those themselves, for me, not in the last place, but also for the other client. Some shredded porcelain with a tweezers had to be removed from his forehead and that goes a lot easier when someone isn't throwing things in the living room anymore. But there's another side too. Then I'll stop with the personal anecdotes. My sister still works as a behavioral scientist in disability care at the institution where I started years ago. As a behavioral scientist, she is involved in developing the plans to minimise urge and, above all, coercion. They work there according to the idea that a decent vision and a decent environment eventually also invite to decent behavior. That doesn't mean nothing ever goes wrong. In fact, things can go badly wrong. But the starting point is to give people as much freedom as possible. With intensive guidance there now live young people who were almost permanently fixed in the past. They live there in relative freedom and now have a more dignified life than when they were constantly subjected to coercive measures. That is what we think this law should be about. How do we ensure that people in disability care, in ggz, in psychiatry and in other sectors have time and space to shape that decent environment that ultimately invites human behavior? That is a heavy responsibility and a very complex responsibility, but it must be, because when the State uses one of the most serious means, such a restriction of freedom, then that State also has the heavy responsibility to organise it properly, to build guarantees and to put professionals in the position of being able to do the work for which they have chosen with full conviction. As far as we are concerned, the current law does not do that enough. Too often there is a paper reality that in practice leads not to the professional but to the protocol leading and that there is a tick-off list, rather than professional autonomy. Distrust instead of space. I do not think I am entirely surprised by that, because that is a discussion that has been going on for years and in which the field of work has been saying for years: boys, we are facing major problems. Traphekjes, wheelchair blades, doors of wardrobes that are never used locked, knives in a closed class: they are all things that are seen as restrictions of freedom and must also be registered as such. Not for one person, but for the whole group. Everyone, individually, has their own plan. A group counselor sometimes has more important things to do than make a plan of action for twelve children on how to lock the same best class, which still contains the same sharp knives, perhaps less often. If it was just bureaucracy, it was annoying and frustrating. But it also means that some of the care for vulnerable people is "protocolized" and that there is a false certainty: if we only have a long treatment plan, then our people are safer. We don't believe that. It hasn't turned out to be cheaper. In April it became known that the Health and Force Act costs an additional 111 million euros annually, to caretakers, WZD officials, traders, external experts and so on. That doesn't have to be a big deal. If we invest an additional 111 million to ensure that the people who need this care are safe and subject to coercion as little as possible, then that is extremely useful money spent. We only have the question of how far this is now and to what extent it can be laid down in such a protocol. I mentioned the example of the wheelchair blade. That is a very pleasant addition to their lives for many people with disabilities. You can just put your cup of coffee on it, your knitting set, your card set, your iPad, or whatever you want to do. But it can also be used for a young person who comes out of his chair very often. Then it's nice if you can put that leaf a little tight, because then he can't get out of that chair. That is the complicated situation we are faced with. But the conclusion that we do draw is that now the one-size-fits-all approach to all coercive measures means that too much time must be spent on matters that we think are 'well, that can be a little less'. It also means that in considering really heavier coercive measures such as coercive medication or fixation, deliberating about one might be at the expense of the time spent on the other, on those more important matters. Is "freedom restriction" perhaps a little too uniform in this law? Of course, I understand that the cabinet says: what is very far-reaching does not have to be for the other. In a way, that's true. But the moment you've lost hours writing plans about that classroom, I think we can come to the conclusion that there really is an improvement there, no matter how complicated that may be. Would the government also take this into account in the greater evaluation of the law that is yet to come? I understand that it's complicated and that there's still discussion about it, but I think it's in the best interests of the client and the caregiver when there's a distinction in those heavier and lighter variants. There are a large number of changes. By the end of the year, we'll get a bigger evaluation. Let me begin by saying that some of these changes to this law certainly seem to us to be an improvement. But we still have some questions about it. That is what it was all about in the small part of the debate that I have been given so far. I am talking about the changes that have not been decided. Is this mainly because of the agreed course of action, namely 'we are going to do even more evaluation later', or is that because the government itself is not sufficiently convinced of the need for these changes? Look, if you're not convinced of a change, I understand you'd better wait a little longer. That seems to me to be a matter of common sense. But if only because of the agreed Hague procedure, namely 'we are going to look at this in six months', clients and care staff are stuck with a complicated law unnecessarily for a long time, I would find that undesirable. I am therefore curious to see what the way in which this is to be dealt with. In the ggz, for example, the law would make the client more central. There would be a hearing obligation and coercion would be reduced. The reality is that the number of coercive measures has increased. And that hearing duty has not worked or is not working enough so far; at least I hear a lot of that. Hopefully the government agrees with the SP that if you have concrete ideas to improve the situation of that person in the ggz, we should not wait until we have an official evaluation time. This also applies, for example, to another subject: emergency admission of unskilled clients. That is once again a complex subject, a diabolical dilemma, because when is this to be discussed? Exactly the procedure prior to a recording should provide an answer to this. We need to protect the person who needs to be admitted as quickly as possible, but at the expense of what? We all know what intervention too late in a willless person can bring: a terrible outcome for the person in question and for those in the vicinity of that person. I don't blame the Cabinet, but I'm curious how they see this. Would it not be possible to take some of the necessary measures immediately, so that there are no terrible accidents pending the completion of a procedure? I also see the disadvantage of that, because you want to ensure the legal status of the person who needs it as well as possible. But you also want those who do not harm themselves or others in the meantime. In the current law, when changing coercive measures, you have to go through the whole step-by-step plan again. That sounds logical and careful, but in practice this creates problems. In addition, you can stimulate a form of undesirable behavior. A measure and a treatment can be changed every time so that you never have to seek external advice, whereas that was an important measure in this law that had to improve the position of clients. Does the Minister recognize these signals? Then the client confidant. I'm guessing that's what I've been talking about several times in my absence. We are increasingly hearing that the directives are unclear, that the differences between institutions are very wide when it comes to calling on the client-confidence person and that it is very different. I can't wait to see how the cabinet weighs it. In the run-up to the next debate, in the run-up to the evaluation, is it prepared to strengthen the position of the client-confidence person in the run-up to any legislative change? The fact that care is suffering from a large staff shortage is a fact. That's no wonder if you put the responsibility and the workload against the salary. In that sense, I am incredibly looking forward to how the cabinet will proceed with my adopted motion to make a plan to improve salaries in healthcare. I believe that in the long term this can be a good solution to the shortage of people in care. But there is also a connection with this law. When it comes to such drastic steps as coercion and the restriction of freedom, you want to be sure that steps taken are the result of a careful analysis by a professional, who has come to the conclusion that this is the best way to act for the client. What you don't want is for a firm restriction of freedom, based on the present, of the inadequate staffing in the care. How does the government weigh that? How do they see, for example, the increase in the number of coercive measures in my name, but the ggz in relation to the staff shortage there? In the previous treatment of these two laws, they have already passed a few times, one of my predecessors, and still colleague, Mrs Leijten, insisted that there should not be two legal regimes for people who can and cannot make it clear whether they agree to any kind of restriction of freedom. Of course, when you can't speak and have the intellectual abilities of a 1- or 2-year-old, you can sit down with each other less quickly to go through a step-by-step plan and come to an agreement. That's true. The procedure should perhaps be different in order to reach a decision, but the starting point should be that the legal position of everyone is the same for this law. Shouldn't you ultimately choose to put these two laws together in the long term in order to embed the legal position of those who are faced with a degree of compulsion as well as possible? And wouldn't it also be possible for them to be asked from the field of work to give people with mental illness the opportunity, for example, when it comes to coercive measures, to fall under the regime of the Care Law, precisely so that they know better protection, but also so that an institution knows better protection when they have to proceed unexpectedly to a certain degree of compulsion? There is often no legal basis for this. That feels unsafe for a lot of people in care. The situation at home; not at my home, by the way. The Health and Force Act may also be applied in the home situation. That is a very, very, very precarious situation. It is a situation in which coercive measures are applied, but then there is not always someone to see how measures are being implemented. How does the cabinet feel about this? Do they share the assessment that there are not enough caretakers at the moment who can, for example, draw up a roadmap for the enforcement measures at home? Let alone enough Law Care and Forced Officers who can ultimately assess such a plan. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that rights are properly protected and people get the care they need? Finally, for this amendment, because we are going to discuss this law again later this year or early next year, of course, I would like to draw attention for a moment to those who return to society after a mandatory entry into the ggz. It was also addressed in Question Time last week by Mrs Van den Hil, whom I would like to congratulate on her maiden speech; I am sorry I could not attend. So there is now the curious situation that your right to assistance is cancelled when you are required to be included. Of course, there is a possibility of applying for special assistance. But first of all, you don't know if you're gonna get it. Secondly, special assistance is sometimes a loan and sometimes a gift. And third, you've just been admitted. You're in a phase in your life where things are just bad, otherwise you won't be required to be admitted. Extra stress, an additional application procedure and additional bureaucracy is just a bad idea. Why would we let this go? According to our party, there's no reason for it. It goes straight against the idea of a recording, namely that you prepare someone with intensive care to return to society with less problems and preferably even without problems. And you don't return to society without problems with a big rent debt. That is why we have tabled an amendment, which has already been co-signed by at least GroenLinks, PvdA and the PVV. If there are any more enthusiasts, I intend to sit there for the rest of the day, so you know where to find me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you. Then we will listen to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Then we're gonna do the two-minute debate on education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was here a little later, because I had another debate this morning, like Mr Kwint. Mr. Chairman. Since the discovery of the scripture, humanity has thought about the meaning of freedom. What is freedom? When are we actually free? Who's allowed to limit freedom? In what situation is it allowed to restrict freedom? These are also fundamental questions in politics, because sometimes the freedom of one person means the limitation of the collective. But also the other way around: sometimes one's free choice also means one's downfall. I had to think about this when I read in the Law mandatory ggz and the Law care and coercion, because a forced admission runs counter to various constitutional freedoms. I would like to mention a few: Article 10, respect for privacy; Article 11, the right to inviolability of the human body; and Article 15, the prohibition of deprivation of liberty in the field of legal protection. As far as my group, GroenLinks, is concerned, one's freedom can only be restricted if there are very good, well-considered arguments for this, and there are no alternatives to more proportionate measures. As far as the latter is concerned, it does not go very well in the youth care and in the ggz for adults. If one thing has become clear, it is that people who need psychological help in recent years often end up on waiting lists, do not get the treatment they actually need and are sometimes referred back to. Those problems are bad. We don't have to discuss that again. We know that with each other. In this respect, I do have my doubts as to whether the government is sufficiently fulfilling its duty of care towards these people. That is why I have an important and immediately difficult question to answer. Would the number of people now facing coercion be less if care were in order? In order to answer this question in an approximate manner, we need to know how many people are covered by the mandatory ggz and by the Health and Force Act. In any case, I have to say that we have not been able to find these figures anywhere. That is why I hope the Secretary of State and the Minister will be able to help us. I'd like to ask them how many patients are subject to the Law mandatory ggz and the Health and Force Act every year. What has been going on in recent years? Do we see an increase or decrease? To what extent could the number of patients be reduced, particularly in the mandatory ggz Act, if care for these patients is timely and appropriate? Mr. Chairman. Then the practicability of the Law mandatory ggz and the Law care and coercion. Because of that last law, it has now been examined that implementation costs an additional 111 million a year. That's a big deal. Let me make that clear: a law that costs EUR 111 million per year in implementation costs. My group finds this unimaginable. We also wonder why the costs and administrative burdens of these laws are so draconian for caregivers? How is it possible that the cabinet at the time of the introduction was based on a reduction of EUR 2.9 million? What is the government's reflection on this discrepancy? How come there's such a difference? Mr. Chairman. This is the second repair law in a short time. I understand that carers, including the V&VN, are still dissatisfied, including the current repair law. They indicate that there should actually be much more repair work. I'd like to ask the Cabinet if this is being properly picked up and what the timetable is. How can it be so complex to switch from care for the elderly or for the disabled to mental health care and vice versa if there is a changing need for care? I heard other colleagues asking questions about this. Couldn't the needs of the clients be much more central in the system? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet also states that simplification may be at odds with the far-reaching nature of forced care in persons with mental illness, psychogeriatric illness or with intellectual impairment. I understand the discretion of the cabinet on this point. When politics has to choose between the interests of the practitioner on the one hand and the interests of the patient on the other, it is sometimes a very difficult choice, despite the fact that we all want the same thing, namely the best care for the clients. However, we are still not entirely convinced that this prudence does not result in the administrative burden on healthcare providers rising to record levels. When we talk to healthcare professionals, they say that they want legislation and regulation to fit in with the current processes and not that outside the current processes all kinds of new things are being made up. I would ask the rulers to give examples of this dilemma outlined by the cabinet in the documents we received. To what extent can you overcome a number of dilemmas by starting with professional practice in new laws and regulations and then incorporating checks-and-balances? Mr. Chairman. I would like to emphasise the importance of checks-and-balances here, precisely when there is a restriction of fundamental rights and precisely when there is an imbalance in power and coercion. Of course, this is the case in both laws. That's not because I don't have any faith in healthcare professionals even more: I have a lot of confidence in caregivers but I do because of the exceptionalness of this work. Because, of course, it is not normal to act against the will of someone else. What is not normal can be normalized in such an environment if we are not careful. That is why I have a number of questions about the implementation of this. Who gets to use coercive measures? I also ask this question because I recently saw a vacancy in the youth ggz for recruiting students to help apply coercive measures. That is why I ask this question: if we say that we can only apply coercion with the right checks-and-balances, then who can then carry it out? Mr. Chairman. I was also shocked by the AKJ's annual report, which deals with persons of confidence in youth aid. I believe we were sent that yesterday. I went through this very quickly, and it shows that, within the open residential youth aid, there is an unjustified application of freedom-limiting measures and, worse still, sometimes illegal violence. I also read that not all employees are aware of violating rights. I would like to ask the rulers what is being done to ensure that all staff working in the youth aid and adult ggz and dealing with these laws, who we cannot expect to read through the law and the explanatory memorandum and all the documents, know what the rights of the clients are and what frameworks they can work within. Because they need to know that before they can apply it properly. Mr. Chairman. When I look at this law with my experience as spokesperson of Youth Services, I am also concerned about increasing the age of the self-binding declaration to 16 years. The self-binding declaration shall specify the conditions under which mandatory care should be provided to data subjects in order to avoid serious harm. This statement helps healthcare professionals to deliver as much customisation as possible in the event of forced admission. I also spoke to a number of young adults there about saying that such a statement can help to make agreements on good care. Now it is true that 12- to 16-year-olds have the possibility that their representative can draw up such a statement. With the new amendment of the law, that possibility lapses, that's how we read. I find that difficult to explain, because that age of 16 seems somewhat arbitrary, but also because 12- to 15-year-olds must of course also be heard and often know what is needed. It is precisely because this law is about seriously restricting freedoms and precisely because it may have a lasting impact on their young age that it is of course important to involve young people in decisions that are being taken. That is why we have tabled an amendment to reduce that age to 12 years. That age has been deliberately chosen, because that is also the age at which young people are covered by juvenile criminal law. I look forward to hearing the reaction of the directors to this proposed change. Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about the role of trusted persons in the Health and Force Act. Several colleagues have already asked questions about this. Research carried out by the Alzheimer Foundation, among others, shows that the implementation of the Health and Force Police Act is lagging behind the ambitions, partly due to the unknownness of the client confidant. In the home situation, half of the carers of clients do not appear to be familiar with the client confidant. Of course, we find that undesirable. Anyway, I think everyone here is unwelcome about that. Because that client confidant informs, supports, defends the client's interests and ensures that those rights of the client are guaranteed in the case of involuntary care. That is why I would like to ask the directors whether they agree with us that this role of the confidant should be brought to the attention of the public. We have also tabled an amendment on this point to explicitly include in the law that healthcare providers have a duty to inform clients or their representatives in order to highlight the existence of that client-confidence person. I hope for support for this tightening up from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more dots to finish. Firstly, the process surrounding the mandatory ggz Act, which raises the question whether the government has adjusted its antenna properly enough. While my group has been receiving complaints about this huge administrative burden since the introduction of the Act, the Ministry's annual report for 2019 still states that in the first few months after the entry into force of the Wvggz "no major implementation problems have arisen'. Meanwhile, we are already at the second round of repair work. How do the rulers explain this? I also have a related question about forensic care. In Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act, the criminal court has the power to impose mandatory ggz on a convicted person after serving a sentence. But that's not what the mandatory ggz law is meant for, is it, I ask the rulers? In any case, we hear that this leads to problems in practice. I'd like a response. We also notice that the law on compulsory ggz talks about a "healer-director." This doctor is responsible for the general course of compulsory care, but many medical directors are also women. Language, of course, matters, and that is why we have tabled a very simple amendment to change it to'medical director'. I am curious about the reaction and hope for support from the Chamber. We are under Mr Kwint's amendment that, if there is a forced withdrawal, the aid cannot be reduced. Last week in Question Time, about the whole Chamber found some of that. He felt that this was unacceptable, so I hope that the whole Chamber will support this amendment. Then I have one final point: compulsion at home. At home, there must be a safe environment. This law states that compulsion can be applied at home with the necessary guarantees, but we hear from clients that it does cause fear. I would like to ask the Secretary of State and the Minister how we now ensure that people really receive the right care, but also to ensure that at home can be and remain the safe place for these people with often serious problems. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u46	With you, it's exactly 12:00. Yeah, it was perfect timing. You've been practicing it for a long time; I know that. There's been a change in the railroad records. I'm gonna suspend for 45 minutes for lunch. So it's gonna be 12:45. At 12:45 p.m. I will do the VAO's today called 'two-minute debate' on education and corona, followed by the votes and then the rest of the debate. Then we're gonna listen to the cabinet. I would remind the rulers that we now have ten amendments. It would be nice if they could comment on them in the first term, but they don't have to. Once again, at 12.45 p.m. the two-minute debate is Education and Corona, then the votes and then the first term of the cabinet. Enjoy your meal.
