ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on two reports of further written consultations with the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport on the implementation of Mr Janssen's motion. on determining control of the States General in the event of an extension of the Act and on the Draft Decision extending the validity of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The numbers and titles of these documents are on the agenda of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also welcome both ministers. Before I speak, let me begin by expressing my appreciation of their commitment to tackling this crisis. I start with that because I am going to say a lot of critical things in the follow-up to my speech. I don't want to forget these words of appreciation. Mr. Chairman. Today we have a debate with the government on the planned decision to extend the Temporary Law measures covid-19 by three months and on the implementation of the Janssen motion adopted in this Chamber on the determining control of the First Chamber in that extension. We are having the debate with the Minister for Justice and Security and with the Minister for Health. The first mentioned last Friday we saw and spoke in detail here and last in October when we were needed to adopt the Temporary Law measures covid-19. That is precisely where the problem lies, because we also spoke to the Minister for Justice and Security because the government needed us. Twice we came back from recess to adopt an emergency law. The First Chamber takes its responsibility and makes every effort to make that possible. On the other hand, however, we do not see much initiative to involve the Chamber in the Corona approach or even to inform the Chamber about it. Information about the curfew was sent to this Chamber only after a letter from the Chamber; we discussed this Friday. The letter following the Janssen motion, the letter we are discussing today, required the Chamber to wait for more than three months. How seriously does the Secretary of State take this Chamber? It's almost a rhetorical question. Mr. Chairman. In the letter on the modalities for determining control, the government prefers the last mode: the commitment to take a judgment pronounced by a motion of the Chamber very seriously. But how seriously should we take such a commitment if a previous motion has not been taken seriously by the cabinet? The word "serious" often occurs in this sense, I notice now, but it is also a serious matter, let me say that again. What exactly is the Minister afraid of? That this Chamber will decide in the middle of a pandemic that the Twm should not be extended? What are the signals that would indicate such an attitude on the part of the majority of this Chamber? Or that this Chamber of Parliament is going to play Tweede Kamertje and to interfere with the whole Corona approach at a level of detail? There are no signals for this either. All ministerial arrangements have been held in this Chamber in committee meetings, but that has not led to a plethora of questions to the government. Mr. Chairman. What this Chamber wants is to be taken seriously in the role it has: to review legislation and to ensure the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. In this context, the desire to be involved in the extension of a law that seriously restricts citizens' fundamental rights is only logical. Not to frustrate a necessary extension, but to be able to ask questions and comment where necessary, whether or not on motion. That was also the idea behind today's debate, namely, following the decision to extend the Twm, to look back with our constitutional and constitutional glasses and to look forward to the corona approach of the cabinet. I had agreed to do so on the basis of the issue of privacy. I would have liked to ask the ministers about this, because there has been a lot of error in that regard, and there is a lot to be done where privacy is an important aspect, such as the vaccination strategy. However, for an exchange of views on this issue, I do need a VWS Minister who has the time and attention to take this seriously. Since I understand that the Minister is not fully aware of that time and attention today, I would like to discuss this important issue at another time. Mr President, I would like to return to the subject of the debate. My group sees the need for an extension of the Twm covid-19. Let me be clear about that. But my group also still sees the importance of determining the power of the Supreme Court in such an extension. With regard to the question of which mode of action should be chosen, my group would prefer to see a modality enshrined in the law. In our opinion, the modality that has been added to the answer to the questions of the Chamber is, say, the modality continuation law à la Wbbbg; in that name we were able to practice on Friday the most logical and practical. We do not see the government's objections to this. There's, as far as we're concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u4	Everything is fine, but the light is being experimented with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u5	I see it, the lights go out. That's definitely for the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u6	I don't know what's happening. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u7	As far as we are concerned, there is no reason to be suspicious of the functioning of parliamentary democracy and of the role that both chambers have in it. Is the government prepared, if this Chamber so requests, to initiate the legislative process for such a modality in the shortest possible time, so that this modality can be used in the event of any further extension, which we all naturally hope will not be necessary? Finally, I wonder what the government is going to do to actually involve this Chamber in the aspects of the Corona approach that affect citizens' fundamental rights. I hope that in the short term we can have a substantive exchange with the VWS Minister on those aspects, including privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u8	That puts you at the end of your speech, Mrs. De Boer? Thank you. Mr. Backer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u9	According to the agreement, a brief interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u10	... on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u11	The word "serious" has passed many times. I take your contribution very seriously. I do have a question. Are you saying that the government's request will be sent to a newly elected House of Representatives? Because the present House of Representatives has, of course, already rejected that request twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u12	What the House of Representatives rejected is not that modality. What the Lower House has rejected is the power of the First Chamber to have a right of blocking. We also discussed it on Friday: of course, this has to do with the appreciation the government gives to such a modality. It's different with a continuation law. Then the government can extend and then has to submit a legislative proposal without delay, asking the Chambers to give their consent to it. That doesn't have to happen within a week, because in the meantime, the rules apply, but you do ask the Chambers for final judgment. I honestly do not see what the objections of the House of Representatives could be about this, because this is not the modality that has been submitted to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u13	I'll discuss it further in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Mr Janssen spoke on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I am also speaking on behalf of 50PLUS. First of all, I agree with what Mrs De Boer said. Congratulations for all your efforts, but still, as this Chamber should be, we are positively critical in today's debate. Mr. Chairman. It is good to be able to talk to the Minister of VWS in the First Chamber for the first time in four months after October about how to tackle the COOVID-19 pandemic. With the Minister of JenV, we discussed amendments to the Temporary Law measures covid-19 in two successive recesses. It is also high time that we debated the extension of the Twm in this Chamber today, precisely because in this First Chamber the emphasis is on assessing the quality of the legislative process and testing for legality, feasibility, enforcement and proportionality. In addition, this Chamber is also an important guardian of fundamental rights. I will therefore speak today about the attitude and action of the present cabinet on the motion, in which a majority of this Chamber in October indicated that, in its opinion, decisive control of the extension of the Twm should be conferred on the States General. That motion bears my name as the first petitioner, but it is not about me, it is about the position of the States-General, as stated in the motion. The Extraordinary Law of Civil Authority, the Wbbbg, will no longer be treated as a legislative proposal, but the shadow of the Wbbbg still hangs over the recent past, the present and the future, because attitude and action of the cabinet surrounding that law directly affect the position of the First Chamber, just like the debate on the Twm in October. From that perspective, therefore, I will refer back to the treatment that took place at that time in the Lower House and in the Upper House and to the legislation that emerged from it. Did we all get a good look at it then? Have we made the right choices, both on content and on democratic assurance? What didn't we know then what we do know? In short, does the Twm ask for adjustment in terms of content and attitude in the extension that is now in the pipeline? That is also the debate I had in mind when I tabled the motion on determining control with the co-signatories: a three-month review by the States-General of whether the law is still proportionate and whether the feasibility and enforcement are in order. The assessment of the proportionality of the law is important, as it is the basis for a far-reaching reduction of fundamental rights. With the addition of the mandatory PCR test and curfew, that has only become more. By the way, it is now really time, as I said on Friday, for the effect of curfew to be demonstrated. Anyway, maybe we'll hear more about that tonight. Mr. Chairman. When I look back to October, I see a period of tension between the cabinet and both chambers around the Twm. This had to do with the pressure of the upcoming second wave, but also with the negative sentiment that had been caused by the cabinet and that was created by the first consultation version of the Twm. The statue was: for a year reigning by afterhang. Let me sum it up, very briefly. That was so bad that the Twm threatened to go under political heading. Subsequently, in the week prior to the legal treatment between a number of parties in the Lower House was concerted under which conditions the Twm could count on their support. The House of Representatives' own position was agreed in advance by the House of Representatives by means of amendments. More or less, as it turned out in the debate, there was no room left. A debate whose outcome was determined in advance, I would also like to say in the direction of Mr Backer. The First Chamber remained out of the picture in advance and therefore played no role in the legislative debate. Only in the government's negative reaction to amendments which did provide for a role of decisive control for the First Chamber was the position of the First Chamber briefly discussed. That is what I found and find worrying, because the First Chamber, as an integral part of the States-General, is jointly responsible for monitoring our fundamental rights. I am now asking for a response from the ministers after four months. How do they look back on this process? Are they still of the opinion that the cabinet sees no role for the First Chamber? Looking back at the debate in the House of Representatives, the Minister of VWS said that he was "not going to have a double debate." That is not my wording, it is the Minister's wording. But, of course, that was not the issue at all. The First Chamber didn't want that at all. That's not what the First Chamber's for. No, this Chamber wanted and wants to be able to exercise its role as guardian of fundamental rights and to be able to judge it decisively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Janssen is talking about cabinet responsibilities. The debate here is about parliamentary powers. In fact, there is no basis for determining control over delegated legislation. That's what this is really about. We also see once again that both Chambers think differently about that. My first question to Mr Janssen is whether he agrees with me that this is an issue that needs to be resolved between the two chambers. The second question is: does he see that the cabinet or this minister has any responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u18	Or, again, is there anything to solve between the two rooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u19	I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u20	Neither was that decisive power for the Lower House. She has amended it because she herself has the right to amend it. Then suddenly it was there for the House of Representatives. That could have been arranged for the First Chamber in the same amendment, but that did not happen. I see not only a matter between the two Chambers. I also see a role for the Minister or the Cabinet, as I indicated in detail on Friday. That's because it starts by dissuading the role of the First Chamber by the Cabinet. The cabinet could also have given a different appreciation, as I argued on Friday, by highlighting the importance of the role of the First Chamber in restricting fundamental rights, such as with the curfew for 17 million people. I will come back to that later. This also applies to a law as we have established it here with each other and in which the House of Representatives has established decisive control in the implementation of the measures. I didn't want that one. I only want decisive control in extending a law that goes so far and continues to restrict fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you. Then Mr. Backer. Or finally, Mrs. Wezeman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u22	In addition to this. What actions has Mr Janssen himself taken, or possibly a delegation from this Chamber, to discuss this with the House of Representatives? Once again, we have passed the law as it stands, with the delegation regime as it is included in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr Janssen and then Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u24	We do not have the right of amendment. If we had, I would have certainly amended it. I tried to fix this by means of a motion. That's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u25	Would Mr Janssen have had this debate differently if the Minister had not advised the motion in the debate in the House of Representatives...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u27	... and the House of Representatives had then voted as it voted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u28	What motion dissuade, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u29	Excuse me, I mean the amendment. The Buitenweg amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u30	The Buitenweg amendment, which the Minister has dissuaded. That is a then discussion about what the House of Representatives would have done if the decisive control, which it considered decisive to be able to vote for the law, had been discouraged and the amendment had not succeeded. I can't speculate about that, but I think, politically speaking, the law wouldn't have made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u31	In your speech, the attitude of the government plays an important role. That's why I'm asking that question. But the business is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u32	I am not so much concerned with the opinion of the cabinet on the Buitenweg amendment. It could also have said: have you looked at the role of the Supreme Court, which should also play an important role here? That didn't happen. The first Chamber has not been discussed at all in the debate, other than in dissuading amendments which did point to the role of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you. Then I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. This Chamber didn't want to make up its mind about everything. This Chamber wanted and wants to be able to exercise its role as guardian of fundamental rights and to be able to judge them decisively, as I have just said. My colleague, Mr Hijink, tabled an amendment to this effect in the Lower House, referring to the constitutional role of the First Chamber as co-guardant of fundamental rights, precisely to this end. In response to this, the VWS Minister said the following, leaving out a few intermediate sentences in the quote: "And yet I do not think that argument is strong, because that would mean that we should always double all debates with the Second and First Chambers. I do not know if that is really of added value. But in order to fully reflect all the powers between the Second and the First Chamber in advance, we are really going to get a duplication of work. That's not what the Cabinet is for." The good thing is, I'm not for that either. There was and is no one for that. Nobody always wants to double all the debates with the Second and First Chambers and nobody wants to fully mirror all the powers between the Second and Upper Chambers in advance. That can't even be constitutional. That was not at all the purpose of the Heink amendment to item No. 36, tabled during that debate. And so does the Minister. The Minister actually made a caricature of the amendment, which, from careful legislation, wanted to safeguard the position of the States-General as guardian of our fundamental rights. That is why the majority in this Chamber has voted in favour of the motion we are debating today. What is left of the fear of the Secretary of State of the United States that he would have to come here and explain the day-to-day situation? That didn't happen. The intention was to debate the extension of the Twm once every three months. Does the Minister recognise that the fear he outlined and that he used as the main argument to discourage the motion did not occur? How does the Minister in that science now view his arguments in October to discourage the amendment? But was this the real reason? In the further written consultation with the cabinet on the implementation of the motion, the real reason for examining the various modalities may well be apparent. A reason that also fits in with the explanation for the pattern of government action to make the choice of less democracy and not more with legislation and measures. In reply, the Minister of the United States states that he is afraid that the cabinet will be empty-handed in crisis time. But I asked the VWS Minister in October how many examples he could give of cases where the First Chamber had not acted responsibly and had blocked necessary measures to combat the COOVID-19 problem. The Minister's answer could not be different from: not one. Not one example. This unfounded reasoning of fear does explain why the government always thinks it should put the States-General at a distance when it comes to corona measures. If that is not the case, then it is the result in practice. Are you suggesting they say no and we as a government stand empty-handed? With this attitude and action of the cabinet, on the basis of this unfounded fear, the cabinet feeds on the image that it wants to do remotely with a parliament in crisis management. And that's counterproductive. Less democracy rather than more democracy. Distrust instead of trust. That mistrust towards the States-General is a recipe for accidents. In practice, it translates into an endless series of debates and an ever deeper and deeper suspicion of and again. That is why there is so much resistance to accepting government commitments. Let me be clear. More democracy does not mean more debates. More democracy means: more trust in the States General as a critical controller of the government and guardian of fundamental rights. This crisis is far from over and will have a long follow-up for our society. This government and the governments after it will be confronted with the consequences of this crisis. But for the moment, this government is still on the move, albeit in a demissionary state. Even after the elections on 17 March, this government will continue to move forward. And there are no constitutional differences in missionaryness. It's like with a pregnancy: you're pregnant or you're not. However, let me point out that after 17 March, in order to continue the comparison, there is a situation of a more persuasive status of missionaryness, and that once again calls for a change in the attitude and behaviour of the cabinet towards the States-General and, in particular, the First Chamber. The cabinet is not ready by making agreements with the Lower House alone. The attitude of the cabinet towards the First Chamber will really have to change. The First Chamber is not an obstacle, the First Chamber is a support in times of crisis, and we have always proved that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of JenV spoke last week in the debate on curfew, I say for ease of reference, already some discomfort about the position of the First Chamber in dealing with this crisis. I myself spoke of a blind spot of the cabinet in front of the First Chamber. Let me paraphrase the VVD's list leader today in response to his remarks this weekend. It's not my habit, but let me do it today. A quote from the list leader of the VVD: "We have to get that finish line together. I had to think of that image of that marathon runner who couldn't do it anymore, but was carried over the finish by two other runners." My version in the light of this debate is something else. My version is as follows: We have to get that finish line together. I was reminded of the image of the cabinet as that marathon runner who could no longer, but by two other runners, the Second and the First Chamber, was handed over the finish line. In order to give this effect as a cabinet and to give the cabinet the opportunity from now on to show that it also considers the First Chamber indispensable to reach the finish line together, I finally have three concrete proposals. My first proposal is a point that has not been answered in last Friday's debate with the JenV Minister. We can see that the deviation from the Twm as a legal basis by measure has twice led to legal uncertainty and a remedial judgment of the Supreme Court. That's not good. As with everything else in this crisis, predictability is important, including legal predictability. My first proposal is therefore that measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, which can be based on the Twm, should be based on the Twm as a rule from now on. Should this not be possible for any reason or not be considered desirable by the Cabinet, the Cabinet shall consult the States General in advance in good time. Will the Minister make a commitment on this? Mr. Chairman. My second proposal is also a follow-up to the debate we held on Friday with the JenV Minister. I asked the Minister not to rest passively in the catch 22 of the Twm of October mentioned by the Minister, which limits the role of the First Chamber. On behalf of the cabinet, the Minister made a commitment that he was willing to actively raise this point in the House of Representatives and to ask whether the members of the House of Representatives felt that the process concerning the measures needed to be legally adapted in this respect. I also asked the Minister to do this on his own conviction and not just because he had to. But in view of the fact that the Minister undertook to do so and that it was not enforced by motion, I can imagine that it was. My proposal to the cabinet is therefore not to wait too long and to begin the debate next Wednesday, when another debate is scheduled in the House of Representatives, and also to discuss Friday's inconvenience expressed by the cabinet about the position of the First Chamber so far. The Twm of October is no longer the Twm of today. Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise you: my third and final proposal concerns the practical implementation of the motion. I can say a great deal about the reasons why a substantive reaction has been delayed for so long, three months, but I am looking forward now. The other one will come later. I do so in the hope and expectation that the cabinet will actually change its attitude and behaviour towards the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Boer already referred to it: in the last letter from the cabinet, a tenth modality was added, namely the delegation subject to legal approval. I'll just call that the Wbbbg variant. That's what it reminded me most of all. As I read it, you could then have a cleaned version of the Twm every three months if the law were to be submitted immediately following the announcement of the extension. This extension has also been submitted three weeks before the start date. That means that you would have time to have the debate on that with each other. I would like to have a more detailed explanation of this variant, because, like my colleagues and co-subsidiaries, I think it is important that we anchor this in the law. However, this should not have a legislative trajectory of 23 weeks, as has been explained in detail. Last week, we reduced the fundamental rights of 17 million people by law within four days. That does not mean anything about care, because we have done so very carefully. A lot of work had been done. But I do want it enshrined in a law. How fast could that be? I agree with Mrs De Boer's questions as to whether the government is prepared to put this into effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u35	I'll let you finish your speech, because you're almost done, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr President, I can conclude. I look forward to a concrete response to concrete proposals and also to answering the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u38	I hear Mr Janssen from the SP say that last week we restricted the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people. This concerns the curfew measure, which may even be extended to measures during the day. The SP just agreed to that. It has also done nothing to highlight the role of the First Chamber, while the PVV Group has said: wait until the judge has given a ruling and declare the law controversial. The SP just jumped through the hoop of the cabinet. How can you reconcile that with the attitude you ask yourself to take seriously the role of the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u40	By just jumping through the hoop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr Janssen, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u42	I don't even let my dog jump through a hoop at home, let alone jump through a hoop myself. If you have listened carefully, you know that I indicated for 15 minutes last Friday why I think that the role of the First Chamber is not sufficiently recognised by the Cabinet and that something needs to be done. However, I also referred in my explanation of vote to the question of all those people who work in health care and in nursing homes. They say: as long as it is not 100% certain that it does not work, even if it only works for half; make sure that something is in our hands that helps us. For those people, we agreed. We have said that we also want clarity in the short term on the operation of curfew. I repeated that again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u44	Very briefly. The operation isn't even half that. It has not been proven at all whether the curfew is effective. I can only observe that when the government asks the SP to jump through a hoop, the SP only asks: how high?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr Van Hattem of the PVV puts words in my mouth. We don't jump through hoops. We've never done that, and we're not doing that now. We're making a thorough assessment. You really need to pay more attention to our contributions and our explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to welcome the rulers to this Chamber. Today we are discussing the motion adopted on determining control of the States General in the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and the extension of the KB on the same law. I shall deal with these issues in the order indicated. The VVD did not support the motion on determining control, because we believe that parliamentary control is already adequately regulated. The law ensures that each ministerial arrangement is subject to a suspension procedure in both chambers. In addition, the House of Representatives has a right of blocking. The KB extension procedure is also subject to the mandatory pre-requisite procedure, preceded by an opinion of the Council of State. Furthermore, the Chambers serve all constitutional instruments, such as the law on questions and interpretation. In addition, the Second may also exercise its right of initiative to terminate or amend the functioning of the law. After that, it's just a law change coming this way again. In the two-chamber system, both chambers must not be duplicated. The State Committee on Parliamentary System says that in order to justify a two-chamber system, the First Chamber should have added value, for example by placing the emphasis on quality in the review of legislative proposals. In the opinion of the VVD Group, the added value of this Chamber is certainly not obtained by sitting on top of the execution. That will happen if the First Chamber has decisive control over delegated legislation. The Council of State also states that it is justifiable that the First Chamber does not play a role in stopping delegated legislation. We can therefore ask for it, but there is no duty to give it to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u49	Madame van de VVD, how many debates have there been about corona in the House of Representatives? I'm guessing about 45. At least there were over 40 of them. The debates that we have had here have mainly been urgent debates on defects in the legislation with steam and boiling water in order to use that expression once again, because I have not yet heard them through the First Chamber. Now, on Friday evening, during the debate with Minister Grapperhaus, we tabled a motion to guarantee precisely the quality of the legislation. You're bringing that up yourself. You voted against it. I don't think we have corona debates here every now and then. It is often our job to repair the case from the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u50	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u51	If you are so committed to the quality of the legislation, why, in the roll-call vote on Friday, did you vote against our neutral motion to ensure precisely that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr Otten says a lot. I'm just trying to break it up for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u53	A brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u54	The debates we have had so far are legislative debates. As you will hear in my plea, I do believe that this is the task of the Supreme Court. We are going to judge legislation that comes here. We've had corona-law debates here. I'd like to keep it that way. We are not here to correct the House of Representatives. We are in favour of looking again at legislation that has been approved by the House of Representatives, in the second instance. That's what we're here for. So I am not in favour of having corona debates here, even though they have done so 45 times in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u56	That is the added value of the House of Representatives. That's her position. I always say that in a two-chamber system there must be a distinction in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u58	I couldn't agree more. We should not repeat everything here from the House of Representatives. You have agreed, I say through the chairman to the VVD, to exclude the First Chamber from the scope of emergency measures. Why did you do that? That's different from a corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u59	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u60	That is exactly what I have just said, if you have listened carefully to me. These are delegated legislation. The word already says it: you delegate it to the executive to act on it and to operate on it. The basis for delegation is in the law. We've established it. We are not going to let all the delegated legislation pass through here. Then you'll have to settle it in an ordinary law. We did not choose for this, either by the Temporary Law measures covid-19, or by the law we discussed last week. I'm sticking to letting it happen that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u61	No, no. I see a lot of interruptions again, but I propose that Mrs De Bruijn should finish her speech, given the tight timetable today. Then I'm gonna find out what kind of interruptions are still out there. Finish your speech. You're almost done, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. We have taken note of the detailed modality and have examined the answers to these questions. Given the complexity of those answers, the VVD has been strengthened in its view that we do not want to go this way. We believe that the Temporary Law on measures covid-19 properly regulates the democratic legitimacy of the crisis measures and that they are in balance with the necessary flexibility and urgency. There is nothing in our way, as we are doing today, to assess whether the law is still in force in the KB extension and, if necessary, to give instructions to the government by means of motions. Mr. Chairman. There are still people waiting to interrupt. This is the first part of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u63	I suggest that you finish your speech, because we have a tight timetable today. We've agreed that we're trying to limit interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u64	Okay, then I'll finish my speech. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the current state of the pandemic, it is clear that the duration of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 should be extended. However, I would like to dwell on the term 'temporary'. Last week, during the debate on curfew, it became clear how difficult it is to weigh the proportionality and subsidiarity of individual measures. Depending on the duration of the measures, a shift in the assessment of proportionality occurs when the collateral damage exceeds the health benefit. Crying for the emergency packages, by the way, but we cannot go on indefinitely. Measures based on the Twm should not last longer than is strictly necessary for the protection of public health. When I look at the roadmap, it doesn't reassure me. At the lowest level of risk, "vigilant," there are still a large number of restrictions due to the maintenance of the one-and-a-half meter measure and the limitation of group size. Our hopes are based on vaccination. The reports from Israel about the effect of vaccination are hopeful. But there are also signs that we are not yet there and that we need to prepare for a situation where the vaccine certainly helps, but the virus remains among us and continues to mutate, which will cause the pandemic to flare up every time. In election campaigns I hear talk about plans for the Netherlands after corona, but shouldn't we prepare for a Netherlands with corona, in a world with corona? The VVD Group lacks the elaboration of such scenarios. It may be advisable to introduce a scenario card in addition to the Roadmap. It is clear that everyone is getting more than tired of the measures we now know. The expiry date of the current approach is in sight. It is time for a society paradigm shift in which measures are not central to restricting people's contacts, but a society in which people can make safe contact again. We want to ensure that temporary measures do not last longer than is strictly necessary and that they are proportionate. That is why my group needs more information on how the government thinks about the follow-up, assuming that the virus remains among us for a while, bearing in mind that the health damage caused by the measures is increasing in relation to the health damage caused by the virus in a vaccinated population. It is necessary for a careful legislative process to be carried out, and here I come, Mr Otten, to get out of crisis situations and to develop a proactive policy that is more in line with a regular legislative process. There are many broad issues, for example how to increase the resilience of our society to a pandemic virus outbreak. What are acceptable risks? There are still uncertainties. The VVD Group therefore proposes to develop different scenarios for this. My question is whether the Minister sees this as well, and whether this has already been taken up. What does this mean, for example, for the legal instruments? We have already heard from Mrs De Boer about the fact that this leads to a series of legislative processes. I am thinking, for example, of the privacy conditions in the test society that I often hear the Minister talk about. We need more structural, regular legislative processes, which are not under pressure or under steam and boiling water, but which are simply planned and come out this way through normal procedures. Can the Minister in due course share with us the results of these scenario studies? We would like to involve them in the discussion of a further extension of the KB in three months' time. I say that specifically because I want to say that we cannot wait until there is a new government. This is an ongoing process. So much for my input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. Mr Nicolaï, on behalf of the Animal Party, a brief question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u66	My question concerns the first part of Mrs De Bruijn's story. In that she talks about delegated legislation. If I understand correctly, you are actually saying that we should not interfere with all this delegated legislation, but only with the basics and quality of the legislation. My question is this. Does Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman see a difference in this respect with the establishment of ministerial arrangements based on the Twm, where we talk about implementation? I think that is the delegation Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman is talking about. This is a royal decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u67	That's gonna be a long question, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u68	We're not talking about implementation right now, we're talking about a decision where...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr. Nicolaï, now it's gonna be a long question. In order not to be repeated last Friday, I would ask you to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u70	To clarify my question, I needed this. My question is: does Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman see that this is a delegation which is concerned with the question of whether the law can continue? That's not execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mrs De Bruijn, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u72	I understand there's a difference in nuance, Mr. Nicolaï. However, we have said, under the Temporary Law, measures covid-19: in this situation, the country is in crisis, there must be a toolbox to be able to take or scale measures quickly. As you can see, this is a weekly issue. We don't have to have this here every time. We have also agreed that the law can be renewed every three months...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u74	... and that we can then have a policy debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u75	I shall now turn to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u76	What I am going to do in my plea is to get rid of this as quickly as possible. I called the word "temporary." We just need to see what's needed later, if we, like in the metaphor I heard this morning...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u78	... go from the acute phase to the chronic phase. Then we simply need to have regular legislation for that. Then we just want to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u80	On the fundamental point made by Mrs De Bruijn on the issue of non-government seat for delegated legislation. Why does the VVD do so in the Lower House and shouldn't it be in the Upper Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u81	I am not responsible for the decisions of the House of Representatives, but we were able to say so when adopting the Temporary Law measures covid-19. We came from the situation of emergency measures that could be taken by municipalities, which did not involve any democratic involvement at all. So, in the context of Parliament's involvement, we did agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u83	But we also made it very clear at the time that we did not see the same thing in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u84	I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u85	Then I find that you are selective in principle. It is not the case for the House of Representatives that we should not sit in the chair of the government when we are talking only about an extension. The VVD in the Lower House is therefore a different VVD than the VVD in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u87	I hope I have two brief questions. The first question. Mrs De Bruijn says that we have passed that law and that part of that law is that we do not interfere as the First Chamber with the extension. That is true, but we have done so on the basis of the sense of responsibility that that law was necessary. At the same time as that law, the Janssen motion was adopted, saying that we do want to be involved. So I think it's a little short-sighted to say that we passed that law and we should keep our mouths shut now. Then there is my second point. I found it very interesting that, in the course of your speech, you appreciated the temporary law, the need for extension, proportionality and subsidiarity. I think that is exactly what those who want the motion to be adopted want. We want to have that debate, and then we want to draw a conclusion as the First Chamber. You now draw the conclusion: yes, that necessity is there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u88	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u89	You conclude that there is such a need. That's what I did. But suppose now that your conclusion had been: no, we do not see that need anymore. Surely it makes sense for us as the First Chamber to say: we do not see anything in this extension?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u90	It's possible. With regard to the first, you cannot expect me to take a very different view at this time than we did during the examination of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. We then voted against that motion. Our vision of this has not changed, not even with all the information that is now available. On your second point, I would like to say that at the moment we simply have the instruments to say: we are evaluating the Twm. Whatever I'm doing today. I hear you mostly talking about control, but I think I am now the first to really talk about the Twm itself and what we think about it. In doing so, we will provide you with: do you work to ensure that this law is really only temporary, and come up with a future scenario on how we are going to proceed and what this means for the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Voort, on behalf of D66, with a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u92	I am pleased that you also believe that more is needed, that more perspectives are needed in dealing with the future of the crisis. Does this mean that you also support the D66 proposal that a socio-economic team with sociologists, economists and behavioral scientists should be involved in the plans for the further approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u93	I see that this is going to happen more and more in many areas at the moment. I just saw Minister De Jonge nodding a few times during my story, so my question is: how are you gonna organize this and what are you gonna come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u94	So we'll hear about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u95	... so that we have a better idea of whether this temporary law still needs to stay or whether it can go away?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you. Mr Nicolaï, on behalf of the Animal Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. You're really keeping it going. I welcome that, because then we can ask all our questions and get the Minister's answers before he leaves. I think that my interruption is very important, because we have to realise that it is not normal delegated legislation and a front-end procedure, but the system currently contained in Article VIII of the law, on the basis of which the government can, in fact, extend that law every three months without formal involvement of the parliament being involved. That is the essential point. When the law came into being, there were all sorts of comments about the erosion of the rule of law. If you give a government the freedom to extend that law over and over again, without the formal involvement of parliament, then at some point you will get that question again for you. Now I can imagine that at the time the thought was also a bit: well, maybe we will have enough of those three months and then the corona crisis might solve a little bit. But if we look now at what has been reported in the media lately, the experts say: we have a pandemic now, but it is actually becoming endemic. If there is another variant that may not be combated at all by the vaccines, then these vaccines need to be readjusted. So we're not done; it goes on and on. On that basis, I would like to ask the government and the Minister here whether they agree with the First Chamber, as Mr Janssen's motion shows, that we have come to a new situation, where there should no longer be any short-term arrangement, but that the temporaryity of the Twm may be much longer than the temporaryity as we anticipated at the time. Does the government not agree with us that this should lead to the restoration of the formal commitment of the States-General? That is an essential question I would like to put to the government. Then there are all kinds of critical questions asked by the SP, GroenLinks and our group about the different modalities. I have to say that the answers we do not always have been judged sufficient and are also partly incomprehensible, particularly as regards the possibility that there might be a conflict between the Lower House and the Upper House. We have raised in our questions whether there is a conflict if the Lower House adopts a law and the Upper House rejects that law. Is there a conflict, or is it simply that according to the constitutional model, both chambers can make their own judgement? There was a response to that remark that there are two dangers in the system as it was in modality 1 compared to the normal process. The word "sequentiality" has never been mentioned. The conflict would then consist of the fact that both Chambers can judge at the same time and that it can then disintegrate, while it is the case with a law: first the Second Chamber and then the First Chamber. That's one. The second point is the heavy procedure for hanging. Normally, the pending procedure can lead to something being rejected and the government can then come up with a new proposal. That would not be the case here, because there would be a situation where the law simply lapses and could therefore not enter into force. Now I ask myself: is that fatal fact not a little indicative of the situation Mr Janssen was talking about, that the government is very afraid that it will be empty-handed? But I would like to put the question to the government: isn't that soluble? We have to change the law anyway. If you change the law in such a way that the normal legislative process gets in and that this diligence is in again, and if you change the law so that it is not a fatal situation where something that can never come into effect again, then we're out of it, aren't we? I've been thinking. If we were simply to resolve it in Article VIII in such a way that you say: provisions or parts of them which lapse under paragraph 1 or 2 of that provision, then we could re-enter that fatal lapse for a period of up to three months, if decided upon by Royal Decree. Then you have the desired situation. Then you could follow the system of the Brigitte Bardot Act, I still call him that, that law with that difficult name could follow. One and a half times Brigitte Bardot it is, Minister, because there are three b's in it. You could then have the system, which, if it is decided to bring those lapsed provisions back into force, a legislative proposal must be put forward without delay in order to ensure that it continues. Isn't that the solution? Then we do not have anything without precedent, because we can refer to a law in which it is already regulated in this way. We took out the fatal and reinserted the immortality. I'd like a response. I think it is similar to the proposals already mentioned by Mr Janssen, which I assume the government will respond to. The second point. However, this is a question related to the evaluation of the temporary law. The temporary law is actually a law that has put a chapter in the Public Health Act, with a view to covid. However, the Public Health Act still contains powers. That law gives powers with regard to the designation of infectious diseases: is it an infectious disease that is designated as a, yes or no? If that is the case, then there are all kinds of provisions in that law that confer powers. We don't need that Twm on its own. Friday we had a discussion about curfew. I asked what the real deal was. In fact, I heard from the Minister that there are people who have been tested positively who are actually dangerous but who do not comply with the quarantine obligation. That's quite a high percentage. If we did something about that, wouldn't we be making a very big profit, which might be so big that curfew is no longer necessary? I have a question for Minister De Jonge. Article 35 of the existing Public Health Act states that "the Chairman of the Safety Region may, without delay, subject a person to the measure of quarantine to prevent the spread of infectious diseases belonging to group a..." It's group a, we agree on that. It goes on to say: "If there are reasons to believe that such a person has recently had such contact with a sufferer or suspected sufferer of infectious disease belonging to group a, that this person may have been infected with the same disease, that there is a serious risk to public health for the spread of the infectious disease and that person is not willing to voluntarily submit to that measure." The positive test shows that someone may have been infected and that there is a serious risk of spread, we agree on that. It's a very far-reaching jurisdiction that's already in that law right now. If the Minister points this out, I can imagine that people are going to say again that dictatorship strikes, but it is not the dictatorship that strikes, but a provision and a power that is incorporated into the law to protect the public interest, if there are very dangerous infectious diseases. Why is that provision no longer mentioned? Why is it no longer pointed out that for people who do not comply with the quarantine obligation, which is still an opinion, there are powers in the law that are far-reaching and that we have never expressed any doubt about. Mr. Chairman. That's what I wanted to end up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr. Bakker on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u99	As a result of this interesting suggestion, may I ask the question: what is the involvement of the First Chamber in the implementation by the Minister of the suggestion you make?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u100	What's the involvement of the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u101	On that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u102	If the Minister makes use of the competence you mentioned, I think it goes into a ministerial arrangement or a KB. In what way would this Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u103	I understand your question. It's not the minister's jurisdiction. It is a power conferred by law. What matters to me is that the Minister is currently pursuing a policy that should lead to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u104	Mr President, just a moment,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u105	I'm afraid the question wasn't clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u106	... that the spread is contained. In that context, it is also important that you should be quarantined, if the test shows that you are contagious. My question is just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u107	I call Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u108	Mr President, let me finish my story. My response to the Minister is only: why is there no longer any obligation and powers which, apart from the Twm, are already contained in that Public Health Act...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u109	That's what I understood. My question is as follows: if the Minister takes this suggestion and acts on that basis, what role does this Chamber have in the implementation of measures under that article?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u110	None, because the power is already in the law. It is simply implementation of an existing competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u111	None? I think there are all the powers that we normally have to call the Minister to the Chamber and talk about them, but we obviously see this differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to have the Minister of VWS here, too. I say that without any irony. I would particularly like to say to my colleagues: he is here, do not ask how it is possible, but profit from it! The number of infections has fallen considerably compared to the time the lockdown was set. However, there are still several thousand infections per day. Unfortunately, the high number of infections means that we cannot exclude the extension of the necessary measures, as laid down in the Twm. It is true that, given how far-reaching the measures are, they should of course not be in force any longer than is necessary. The measures have a particularly negative impact on people and the economy. The same applies to the spiritual interests. Therefore, let the churches not be a fence closer to possible relaxations, I ask the Minister. As soon as the epidemiological situation allows, attention should be paid to the possibility of removing parts of the Twm. This can be done if the number of infections has fallen sufficiently. In our view, however, the Roadmap does not provide sufficient clarity. That is why my question to the Minister: can you indicate in what specific situation the point at which certain measures may lapse be reached? One measure is more radical than the other. For example, the curfew is seen by many people as a profound violation of their freedom. The more radical the measure and the greater the infringement of fundamental rights, the more parliamentary safeguards are appropriate. For this reason, the SGP supports, for example, Mr Nicolaï's motion to introduce an additional guarantee for the Upper House in the case of measures such as curfew. Fortunately, with a great deal of understanding from the Prime Minister, I understand, who said about this heavy measure: the first measure you do not want to go through, which is at the top of the list to delete, is the curfew. That is what our Prime Minister said at the press conference on 22 January last. The SGP is surprised that it has now been leaked that the curfew allows for certain relaxations. Is this ultimum remedium the right remedy for this? Is it logical to use an ultimum remedium to facilitate relaxation elsewhere? That does not seem to us to be self-evident. Can the Minister indicate what it will take to cancel the curfew? The SGP attaches great importance to a concrete commitment, now that it appears that earlier rulings do not simply lead to similar actions. We see that the limitation of personal freedoms is becoming more and more profound. The measures take longer than we anticipated. People crave relaxation. The SGP therefore calls on the government to take account of the social and social consequences. What concrete considerations are always being made when certain measures are being introduced or are being continued? Is there now a clear framework for consideration and, in addition to the OMT opinion, are the opinions of other civil society organisations taken seriously into account? Mr. Chairman. The Twm offers parliamentary guarantees. We have agreed to this as a parliament and as a SGP. With regard to the right to block ministerial arrangements, it is not incomprehensible to the SGP that any distinction is made between the Second and the First Chambers during this time of crisis. At the same time, I do not want to rule out the possibility that such a right for the First Chamber could indeed be raised in the case of new tightening-up or the introduction of new, very far-reaching instruments. I already mentioned curfew. Mr. Chairman. In the modalities for parliamentary involvement in the extension of the Twm mentioned by the Minister, number 9 indicates that this does not require any legislative amendment. The government can politically promise that motions from the two chambers on whether or not to extend the Twm will weigh very heavily. Can the Minister indicate whether this serious interest without exception will lead to the outcome of these motions? And if not, what are exceptions in the eyes of the Minister which do not follow the outcome of these motions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Prins, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. It is now a year since the Netherlands was confronted with the corona virus in our own country; a virus that had, holds and, as we fear and suspect, will hold our country and the whole world for some time to come. For a year now people have been working in the care sector, with the GGDs, the police, the extraordinary investigators, the people in the various governments and ministries, as well as the cabinet and many, many others, hard and under pressure to mitigate the effects of this virus and to reduce the risks as much as possible. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to consider that. I want to thank all those hard workers for that. Despite the enormous efforts made by many, unfortunately, we are still a long way from being there. The numbers of infections and hospitalizations are still too high. To speak with the Roadmap, we are still at'serious' level. The great bright point is that vaccination has begun. With the emergence of various and, above all, more contagious variants, the Cabinet considers it necessary to extend the Law on temporary measures covid-19 until 1 June of this year. We would like to dwell on this, and also on the Janssen motion on determining control. First of all, we would like to consider the extension of the said law, and from our role in the feasibility and enforcement of this law, or, in practical terms, its effectiveness. The direct effectiveness of this law is certainly visible. Many work at home, one wears mouth caps and one is scarce with social contacts, to name but a few consequences. At the same time, RIVM indicates that not all measures are adequately monitored. We can see that the support for the measures, although still large, is clearly falling. Mr. Chairman. The need for the said law is still there, but given the enormous impact that the various rules have on existence, it is increasingly difficult for people to comply with the rules. The support is reduced, while acceptance or acceptance of a law or rule is the basis for good effectiveness. This brings us to the heart of the government's policy of tackling this crisis, namely: the acceptable strength of care, the need for hospitals to continue to be able to provide good care, the protection of vulnerable people and, finally, keeping an eye on the spread of the virus. We would like to set the definition of 'vulnerable' here. As far as we are concerned, after a year of far-reaching measures, the definition of vulnerable not only applies to the elderly and sick people. No, given the length of this crisis, our group notes that several groups of citizens have become vulnerable. Think about children, think about young people, about students, but also about people without work, about the catering industry, about the retail trade and about people working in the cultural sector. There is stress, tension, loneliness, uncertainty and fear for the future. Many wonder: do I still have a future? Or: What will my future be? The CDA Group therefore welcomes the government's decision to make substantial funds available to help and support young people and education. We would like to call on the cabinet, even if it is outgoing, to develop further plans for a future in which a growing number of people have been vaccinated; scenarios that consist of more than the current roadmap. Surely it cannot be that various groups of citizens, as well as organisations such as VNO-NCW with SMEs Netherlands, or the VU together with KPMG, are developing plans for a society with the vaccine and the virus among us, but that the cabinet remains silent? We are concerned with plans drawn up for the various target groups. In short, what does the Cabinet intend to do to restore energy and perspective to the many vulnerable citizens, i.e. the zzp'er, the retail trade, the catering industry? Quite specifically: we do not urgently need a corona repair plan, so we ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. In addition to this corona recovery plan, we would also like the cabinet to develop scenarios that will impact unpredictable developments in the virus and the shelf life of the vaccines. For example, the current vaccine may only have a limited effect of, for example, a year, or the vaccine may not protect against new variants. In the opinion of our group, it is important to develop these possibilities now and to determine how they are organised. What do these possibilities mean for the organisation of vaccination in the future, for the organisation of our healthcare system, for vaccination passports or not? When is another temporary lockdown due? Can the cabinet undertake to work on this, so that there are several options for a subsequent cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Policy support is essential for effectiveness, as I said. The development of the necessary basis of support is determined by the information that people take, but also by the information that people can take. The opposition and alternative approaches with their support are widely communicated in the media. However, the cabinet confines itself, in particular, to press conferences, a campaign on vaccination and talks with young people, for which we compliment. During the press conferences, the cabinet does communicate the decisions taken, but lacks any insight into the trade-offs and alternatives. Very practical: why not show sheets with the different graphs about the different possibilities and their consequences, together with the necessary explanation? Why is a bookstore not an essential store and the liquor store is, while you can also order both products online? Why can't outdoor sports in small groups, and isn't working at home where it can be tolerated? Many citizens are well aware of the need for action, but they lack the arguments needed to support themselves and the others. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman, last but not least the Janssen motion concerning the determining control. The CDA Group naturally cherishes our democratic principles, with the solid and distinctive roles of both Chambers. That's a big good. I expressly designate the distinctive roles of the two Chambers: the Second Chamber with the directly elected representatives, who deal daily with the policy of the Cabinet and its supervision, and the First Chamber with the indirectly elected representatives who, as members of a chambre de réflexion, at some distance from daily politics, deal with the legality, effectiveness and enforcement of laws and regulations approved by the Second Chamber. The CDA Group attaches great importance to the distinction between the two Chambers. Only in this way will they be complementary and can they both play valuable roles for our society. However, in crisis situations, in situations where you need to be able to act quickly and without delay, this temporary procedure is obstructive. In fact, one could argue that managing a crisis is badly related to governing according to democratic principles. It is not for nothing that almost all crisis lectures indicate that you have to work according to principles such as the BOK: imaging, judgment, decision-making. In addition, when sharing the images, what is going on? It is no longer possible to say what has already been communicated by another person when deciding on a judgment. It is no longer about visions, views, visibility of yourself and the importance that you represent, but about an adequate and quick inventory of the circumstances, the situations and the differences from the different perspectives, in order to reach a decision. Managing a crisis is always fast and manageable and accountable afterwards. This applies not only to short-term crises, but also to sudden emerging situations in a long-term crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mrs. Prins uses the motion as a starting point, and then keeps a completely different story that is not about the motion. The motion is about once every three months as a Chamber making an assessment of the extension of the law, not about the day-to-day state of affairs, not about crisis management and so on, and whether the far-reaching restriction of fundamental rights still needs to continue and be proportionate. That's the core of the story. I hope you will come to that, because the whole explanation you have given so far on crisis management is not about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u118	Mr. Janssen, I think I fully meet your wishes, because in future I will come back to that. However, I would like to make it clear that there is a difference between managing a crisis and democratic principles. We need to find a form for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u119	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u120	But I suggest that Mr Janssen wait until the end of my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u121	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u122	The crisis leader, in this case our government, must have freedom of action, of course with responsibility afterwards. What is striking is that the approach in the Netherlands is different from that of several countries in Europe. In France, in the event of a medical emergency such as this, the measures are introduced by decree and communicated to Parliament. In Belgium there is a legal basis through ministerial regulations and decisions of the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with the voice of parliament to be heard within one year. In the United Kingdom, with the use of the Coronavirus Bill, the government has plenty of room, without parliamentary involvement. Once every six months, consent is required for renewal. In Germany too, Parliament's involvement is more remote. You can almost find the old proverb here: need breaks the law. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group realises that we are still living in a time of crisis, with the importance of a rapid and adequate approach being essential. It is therefore continuing to seek a good balance between democratic legitimacy and the leading of a crisis. Given the distinction in roles between the two chambers, we can live well with the provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, with the democratic legitimacy given to us. The commitment of the cabinet in modality 9 to take due account of motions adopted in this Chamber can count on our agreement. From our role, we test the effectiveness of the laws and regulations. In doing so, we would be positive about holding consultations with the cabinet, at some distance, with the extension of this law, so that we are less taken hostage by the delusion of the day. Finally. The CDA understands that the current state emergency law is being revised. In this respect, we would like to see specific attention given to managing crises in relation to democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u123	You're almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u124	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u125	You're done. Thank you. Mr Nicolaï with a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u126	I would like to put the following question to Mrs Prins. Emergency breaks the law. In a crisis, you must have powers. But we are talking about whether or not to extend a law, in a situation that I said was endemic rather than pandemic. How does her group feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u127	I think that we have explicitly stated that we are also taking into account a situation which is becoming endemic. On the one hand, we have asked for a corona recovery plan, precisely in view of the vaccine and the virus in society. That is something we have specifically asked for, from the endemic situation that we believe we will have in the coming years. Secondly, every time the law is renewed, so once every three months, we also ask for consultation with the cabinet, as the cabinet has done so far and we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u128	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u129	You're talking about consulting with the cabinet. So I understand that you do see a role for the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. But why is your group against the situation that there would be a formal involvement in the legislative process in the event of an extension?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u130	Because we believe that this involvement is already explicitly present in the current legislation and regulations, as Mrs De Bruijn has also pointed out. We always have the opportunity to talk to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u131	Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u132	I am getting a déjà vu on the debate on last year's emergency law of 26 October. I sum up Mrs Prince's contribution as follows: it's crisis, do whatever you want, we're fine with everything. That's what I hear now. Legislative pathways are being followed here with serious consequences for the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people. How can you take this off so easily? You also did not respond at all to the call in the Janssen motion for the First Chamber to play a role in this. What's your position in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u133	I think that we have just stated explicitly that we see our position in an added value, in which we talk about it more remotely once every three months, or, if the law were to apply, once every six months. I am glad, by the way, that you remember what I said at the time. I think that's very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u134	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u135	Yeah, 'cause I read it all the time. I have a photographic memory, so that's why this came to mind. But you did not vote in favour of the Janssen motion at the time. That motion shall ensure the role of this Chamber in the renewal. That motion has been passed. How do you feel about that now? I'll tell Mrs. Prince, you won't be able to say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u136	We voted against this motion at the time, and we would do so again today, because, as indicated, we are very much in favour of the current approach, including modality No. 9, as proposed by the Cabinet. We are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u137	Thank you. Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u138	I would like to sum up as follows: we are doing the job of the Janssen motion. That's actually what I hear here, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u139	I have to say that these are your words. Those are not the words we have spoken here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u140	Thank you. Mr Backer, on behalf of the D66 Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a question of a constitutional nature and the content of the covid policy. Both rulers are here, for which I am grateful. I think it is also a debate with the government where a reflection on our own functioning is at issue before we make certain accusations, ask questions or make requests to the rulers and the government. We in the D66 Group have chosen to separate this constitutional question from the covid policy debate as summarised in Mrs De Bruijne's speech. Mr Van der Voort will speak about that other part. The key question in my contribution is whether this Chamber, as the body of the States-General, can sufficiently play its legitimate role in the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic. There are political groups, which are also evident this morning, from the support for the Janssen motion, from the co-signatory of the NICOLAI motion, which has not yet been voted on but which will still be discussed, and from the written input in the letter of 12 February, which consider that, because of the fundamental rights restricting nature of the regime in the Wbbbg and the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which in this fight have decisive control over the States-General, and in particular this Chamber, as part of the States-General. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something about the NICOLAI motion, because it builds on that. Mr Nicolaï is working on it in a request that is before us today. He is asking, at least as I understand it, for an amendment to legislative proposal 35732 to be submitted to the House of Representatives, which would have to come back from election recess once again, in which this Chamber would also be given that decisive control. The request is also full of innovations, as the Minister should include a final deadline for curfew, which depends on the timely meeting of this Chamber. This is entirely outside the influence of the Minister and also outside the influence of the House of Representatives. If that does not happen, and that opportunity is realistic, because my group does not want to make it a habit of meeting both Monday and Tuesday and Friday, then the curfew will automatically lapse in the request, once the proposal has come to the Registry. So we have decisive control by not acting. It is in fact a further development of the Janssen motion, at least that is how I understand it. Mr. Chairman. Constitutional relations are developing gradually and there is room for this in our order. There are very fundamental rules on which democracy is founded, which are even unwritten. Of this, perhaps the most important thing is that we leave the primacy of politics without differentiation to subjects at the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u142	Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u143	To correct a misunderstanding: it is not a continuation of the Janssen motion, other than the idea that the First Chamber should have a decisive role to play in important areas of fundamental right limitation. The Janssen motion was only concerned with the extension of this law, because we believe that there is a role for the Chamber. Mr Nicolaï's motion for a resolution refers to something else, namely a part of the Twm, in which the House of Representatives has established a veto for itself. Mr Nicolaï's motion sees this as something special like curfew, but that is not an extension of the Janssen motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u144	Mr Janssen has co-signed that motion and, of course, it has been formulated in the same spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u145	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u146	It has been formulated in the same vein in the sense that the First Chamber should also play a role in the far-reaching restriction of fundamental rights, which is de facto almost affected by emergency law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u147	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u148	Thank you for this clarification. I was at the primacy of the House of Representatives, which is not interpreted in the same way by all political groups, but generally by most political groups. That's not without meaning. On the one hand, it is clear that a cabinet without the confidence of the Lower House cannot continue to govern. It is less clear what is the result of a lack of confidence in this Chamber. That will, I think, be different on a case-by-case basis and on a subject-by-case basis. During this parliamentary term, the SP Group has the honour to have added new dimensions to the constitutional debate. I am looking in the direction of Mr Kox. We have had the debate on the housing file, the Kox motion, the motion of censure. At that time, I had an exchange of views with him in that debate on order that we look at this differently, because we feel that this Chamber could indeed be much more compelling in legislation than in the area of administration. We see this house mainly as a legislative assembly. Mr. Chairman. I think that the discussion we are having in this house is primarily about asking if: is it correct that we or that the government is basing measures on the Public Health Act? And are the measures contained therein restrictive, restrictive, disproportionate or not? That was also the subject of an exchange of views in this Chamber. All the instruments, Mrs Prins, have already said so for control of policy and governance, which already exist. But everything that can be done is not always appropriate. There's also size and weighing in there. It is also important that I look again at Mr Kox when and in what way the motion instrument is used. Mr. Chairman. This exceptional situation of the pandemic, which, on the one hand, insults state emergency law, but, on the other hand, does not justify the use of the Extraordinary Powers Act, and, on the other hand, we discussed it all Friday, the government grants a greater margin than in normal situations. I would not like to summarize it as Mr Otten just did, but I would like to speak of a larger margin. Mr. Chairman. There are groups that have voted against this legislation. That is a political choice and then it is a consideration of what you do with it. But that there is now a different role for this Chamber in the Twm Act, which has also been explicitly mentioned, we do not change that anymore, here with our mutual discussion. In order to be willing in that consideration to play a more modest role for this Chamber, in a law that is urgent, but also temporary, the fraction of D66 can live with that. Then nine modalities were discussed in the letter. That's also living state law. When you read the letter, you see something of loving hedgehogs. It goes very carefully, the key question is explained in legal terms and it is all very complicated how to do it. Finally, we come to point 9, the political opportunity. Mr. Chairman. That's what I think today is about. As far as the figure chosen is concerned, the Council of State, at our request, has provided information and said that it is not customary, but it is also not contrary to constitutional law. I would, of course, ask those Members who take this point very seriously; everyone has their own point of view on how far they want to continue this struggle, this controversy with the other Chamber. If we are consistent, do we want presentations of Professor Van Dissel here every week? Are we going to go into all the pieces of the OMT? Are we going to live up to the fact that we are going to fully fulfil that role? In the way I put the question, you will already see that I have great doubts about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u149	You're approaching your end, I think? Then I'll let you finish and then we'll go to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u150	I'd love to. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u151	I mean, of course, the end of your input. Excuse me. Carry on, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u152	In essence, the question is: will the country be better off fighting a controversy with the House of Representatives about our precise role in this? I don't think so. We talked about the app for a whole Friday. We talked about the most far-reaching measures in fundamental rights for a whole Friday. We finally supported that. Mr. Chairman. I am confident that we will be informed in a timely and appropriate manner. I think, in the direction of Mr Janssen, that the cabinet's reaction to the Heink amendment was inappropriate, but it happened and it is behind us. I think that is also a reality that we must work with in the relationship between the two Chambers. Mr. Chairman. To use another word that Mr Janssen also knows very well from his administrative experience: if that is the case with the Lower House, then surely the Cabinet has no power of perseverance to change that? It might find something, after hearing this house, but the power to change it doesn't have the cabinet, and certainly not a missionary cabinet, I think. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the idea that we can express the rights we have, in all kinds of ways, in motions, in talks, in oral consultations, and that we should exercise them in reasonable terms, given the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u153	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u154	I must say that I recognize Mr Backer's debate technique as that of the poop. He suggests it as if those who supported the motion wanted this Chamber to have control over all the measures. He sketches a ghost image as if we would be debating these measures here every week. He says: we must confine ourselves to legislation. My question is: doesn't Mr Backer see that this motion is correct about the legislation? It is about whether the First Chamber is not... It is about an emergency law that is temporary, which we also say is important that it is temporary. Shouldn't the First Chamber be involved in the assessment of whether that temporary law should be renewed again? That is the key question and not that we want to debate the OMT opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u156	Mrs. De Boer gives all kinds of qualifications to the way I look at them. Let me say one thing about this. In this house, my experience, constitutional discussions are often packaged and, often sincerely, interwoven with political views on the material side of the legislation. This is not so much the case with your group, I say to Mrs De Boer, but there are groups that are opposed to some of the measures. It's okay. In the end, there is a majority in this House who supported the measures. The extension then raises the point that we would have wished it to be different from what it is now constructed. We also know, however, that the House of Representatives does not feel for this construction. We're not gonna ask the government something about which she's already hit a no twice. Given the time we use for this subject, I wonder if we are not very busy with ourselves. Aren't we actually doing something, which I think, yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u157	Let us at least continue with the next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u158	I note that Mr Backer is not going into my substantive argument that the motion is about legislation and not about the measures. Apparently, we agree on that. It's not about whether you're for or against the measures. It's about the meaning. I'll come back to it in second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u159	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u160	... also because I think that the attitude of the House of Representatives is really different from what Mr Backer tells us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u161	The Remkes Committee considers one of the roles of the First Chamber to be actually counterweight to the existing monism of the Second Chamber. We have now heard three of the four coalition parties and I notice that they are closely associated with the government and the House of Representatives. I did not expect this especially from D66, because of its origins as a party for democratisation. I think that's really surprising. My question is about another point, because Mrs De Boer had already asked my first questions. My question concerns the rule of trust. Mr Backer asked: does that trust rule actually apply in the Upper House, as it applies in the Lower House? Then we really get to the base that was laid in the nineteenth century. If there is no trust between the government and parliament, then the government quits and not the parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u162	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u163	My question: have I heard correctly that this trust rule does not apply to the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u164	Mr Recourt didn't hear that right. Maybe I cut it a little too much because of the time. I said that the trust rule for the House of Representatives is clear. The trust rule in the First Chamber is more complicated. We have had situations in which this Chamber was somewhat disliked or extremely critical. We have also had situations where rulers, heard the cabinet, later after internal consultation. But it's less clear. In the General Reviews, the question of trust is not presented to the Cabinet in this sense. So yes, trust in this house is important, but the political effectiveness of that trust is more complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u165	Thank you. No, so it was the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u166	On the first point about getting married: I would say that you should focus on Mr Van der Voort's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u167	May I speak to Mr Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u168	Yeah, we're gonna have to go on another time at this point. I think it is very fundamental, but we are not going to do it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u169	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mr. Nicolaï, a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u170	It is indeed about constitutional law. We're talking about a crisis situation. Emergency breaks the law, we've already brought it forward. But of course we also have something of moving insight. A government, but also a First Chamber, must look at the changed circumstances. Does Mr Backer, like our group, think that this Twm was originally meant for a short period of time that hoped everyone was meant for and that we are now in a situation where it might continue to apply much longer than we actually anticipated? Shouldn't that play a part in considering whether the Upper House, including the Lower House, should have decisive control over the continuation of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u171	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u172	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u173	I find that an interesting thought. I do not know whether I will come up with exactly the same results as Mr Nicolaï in the construction of that. But that's okay. The answer to your first question is yes, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u174	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u175	I am very pleased with that answer. Then I wonder what D66 will come out of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u176	I was expecting that, but I don't think now is the time to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u177	Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u178	I would like to thank Mr. Backer for the careful weight he has shown in his contribution. I have a question about that. The Janssen motion is about parliamentary control for both Chambers, the First and the Second Chamber. I note that the House of Representatives has no decisive influence on the extension decision at this time either. We always talk about the Upper House, but neither does the Lower House. Now the whole crazy situation arises that the First Chamber wants an extra power, which the Second Chamber does not assign itself. After all, he voted against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u179	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u180	Can you shed your light on that, or is that too much to ask for right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u181	A short light.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u182	It's not too much to ask, but we know the Minister's running out of time. It's not to get rid of your story, but I think the key is in constitutional relations. If the House of Representatives has a certain view on how it wants to do this and has a view on us, then that is a fact. That is why I said that the government might also have an opinion on it. I can find anything on that, but it's a given. I'll talk to other partymates across the street, too. I also spoke to them last time about the Van Otterloo amendment. But it's what it is and that's how it happened. We cannot speak for them, nor can they speak for us. We have no conflict settlement in our order, as in the French Senate and House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u183	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u184	I agree. However, there will be a very curious situation if we do have control over the extension of a KB and the Lower House not. This would give us some kind of disguised right of amendment to an RB, when we are actually following and can only adopt or reject legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u185	Mr. Backer, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u186	In our view this would not fit in with the primacy of the politics of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u187	Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u188	I have great respect for Mr. Backer. He's one of the constitutional consciences of this Chamber, with a few other people. In the Lower House, the SGP tries to take that role. It doesn't work out so well in the First Chamber. That is why I always appreciate Mr Backer and Mr Nicolaï, among others. But what Mr Backer is saying now, that we want to hear Jaap van Dissel here every week, of course, is total bullshit. That is not at all the intention of the Janssen motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u189	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u190	The point is that we want to guarantee the role of the First Chamber. My question to Mr Backer is: where did you come up with this? An eminent lawyer like Mr Backer knows damn well that this is not the case we are talking about today. What do you think of the Janssen motion, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u191	I am, of course, very coiffed with this judicium by Mr Otten. It might be a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u192	You can't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u193	Why I have to play this role is because the SGP fails on this point. So, yeah, somebody's got to do it! I don't think I'm overreacting. I am trying to say that if you want that role to be close to implementation in this urgent matter, then you must also be consistent. You need to sit closer on it and that means you're getting closer to administrative execution. We have seen it on Friday and we notice it today: a debate on the legal right to do something, of course, always mixes with the content of what you want to achieve with that rule. Then the roads separate: some find it disproportionate, others find it acceptable. That's why I'm saying, I think you're gonna end up in execution anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u194	Thank you. Mr. Otten, I'm not gonna give you another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u195	A brief reaction. I note that the D66 Group does not want to guarantee the role of the First Chamber in the further reduction of fundamental rights through the Janssen motion. I'm noticing that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u196	I recognize a pattern from Mr. Otten. That is that he always summarises the words of someone else who does not reflect what has been said. But he's free to do that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u197	Thank you. Mr Van der Voort has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u198	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that my group does not find it a problem that I speak as an intensive and as head of the department of an academic intensive care department with covid patients. Quite the contrary. In my contribution I will focus on the extension of the Temporary Measures Act. I am involved in this debate in the policy that makes this extension of measures necessary. As a D66 group, we are happy to put the clocks back together with the rulers. That is what we are doing with a constructive but critical attitude, because there are lessons to be learned from the policies that have been pursued so far. This does not affect the sincere appreciation of the unbridled energy and the commitment of the VWS Minister and the entire cabinet. The measures are intended to curb the continuous spread of the respiratory virus SARS-CoV-2. In itself, it is already an interesting observation that a repeated extension of measures is needed in the Netherlands, while residents of other countries can already lead a more or less normal life. Can the Minister explain how it is possible that in countries such as Australia, New Zealand, China and Israel freedom-limiting measures are much less needed than in the Netherlands? Apparently that is possible, but our strategy has not achieved it so far. Please explain the reasons for this by the VWS Minister. Mr. Chairman. The explanatory memorandum to the draft extension of Twm states that "limiting the influx of virus variants from abroad'. Can the Minister explain how this policy fits in with the fact that flights from South America are not allowed to come to the Netherlands, but there are aircraft flying from South America to other countries in Europe, after which passengers change and reach the Netherlands? Why are there no final European agreements on travel, testing, measures and vaccination a year after the pandemic began? And how concrete are there plans to implement a uniform European pandemic policy? The D66 Group recognises that the spread of SARS-CoV-2 is a reason for taking action. In principle, therefore, we support the policy. Initially, this was made understandable and acceptable to all under the slogan "flatten the curve." After a fairly carefree summer, the restrictions on freedom have become more extensive and more stringent. In the outlook that OMT members have repeatedly previewed, it is gloomy trump card. The cabinet is almost unable to offer any perspective for its citizens in the final assessment, other than vaccinate. However, vaccination started late and the numbers of vaccines delivered are always less than promised. The lack of perspective leads to alarming reports about youth and other groups. On the basis of OMT opinions, the government's strategy is to tighten up the restrictions on freedom in order to reduce the number of infections, with hospitalisations and ic occupation in the wake. Because of insufficient effect, it has to be even stricter. If our group looks remotely at the events of the past year, we see three patterns. I shall explain it in turn. On each of these patterns please a reflection of the Minister of VWS. Firstly, it is an increasingly restrictive and restrictive policy, secondly, it is late or too late in implementing new strategic choices, and thirdly, it is a matter of concern to us that dialogue with society is becoming increasingly restrictive. First, the picture of an increasingly restrictive policy which has not always had the desired effect. In my field of intensive care I teach intensiveists in training that, if it is not possible to improve with a certain treatment method in a sick patient, another strategy as a replacement or supplement might be successful. Replace one antibiotic with another or add one, even if the first antibiotic used is normally effective. My question to the VWS Minister is therefore: what alternative 'antibiotics' have you investigated in order, so to speak, to follow a second track? The OMT is not necessarily the ideal advisor. I know my esteemed colleagues from the OMT well, but I know from experience that they can keep turning around in their own groove. For example, in the current OMT, microbiologists have resisted an antibiotic strategy developed by intensiveists for ventilated ic patients for more than twenty years. Following the introduction by Intensivists, it was found to reduce mortality by about 20%, after which microbiologists reluctantly supported this policy. Also the covid patients on the ventilator on the ic are now successfully treated in this way. I share this historical perspective because it indicates that the OMT sometimes needs a push in the back. The second track for D66 and other parties is the involvement of economists, sociologists and behavioral scientists in an advisory body. You can call that a "MET"; a Social Economic Team. They can prepare a second track that meets the aspirations of society without detracting from the goal of reducing further dissemination. Perhaps the Wpg needs to be adapted to this. Despite stricter policies, the measures cannot be relaxed. Why should more measures be taken? We're swimming deeper and deeper into the action trap. In order to avoid swimming in a trap, there is a timewant. But we've already passed it consciously in the beginning. We've also passed a couple of times. Tickets are funnel-shaped nets in a trap. So the question is whether we can still escape from this action trap. In a good trap there is still an escape possible, namely via a so-called escape grape. That's a piece of network with bigger meshes than the trap itself, but with smaller meshes than the span. The question is, what does the corona control trap's escape grape look like? In this speech, I'm going to outline some of the contours of that escape grape. Partly these contours derive from the second pattern on which the D66 Group would like to hear a reflection from the Minister, namely the late or late deployment of new strategic choices. Let me give you a few examples. Increasing test capacity by not using commercial laboratories slows down the test policy. It was not until late that the strategy was changed. The limited use of personal protective measures in home care is also a policy that was later adapted. The vaccination strategy was developed and implemented too late and continues to be criticised even after adjustments. Experiments that fit into an exit strategy are carried out generously late. The test company could have been there in full size, because we can test since April last year. We see a common feature in most of these examples, namely wanting to use existing structures within the healthcare system that are not equipped for such a volume. We understand that this is the Minister's preference, but, in reality, such an effort cannot be expected from these bodies. A strategy that takes this into account from the outset would be preferable, as far as we are concerned, to the subsequent adjustment of strategies. Our concern lies in repeating wrong choices on second thought. In addition, different starting principles are used, so the strategy of measures and the vaccination strategy are not in line with each other. The vaccination strategy is based on protecting vulnerable people, while the strategy of measures is driven by the pressure on care. The vaccination strategy has also been delayed and the deliveries of vaccines are uncertain. The vaccination strategy chosen will take up to far in the year before measures can be relaxed. It seems to our group that it would be a good idea to communicate transparently to the citizens how this is possible within that situation. A total vision is missing, or I missed it. A roadmap is not yet an exit strategy, and as far as we are concerned, an exit strategy is not just to wait for measures to be phased out until a majority has been vaccinated. There are now experiments that fit into an exit strategy, but they do not yet form a coherent whole and lack a clear timeline that offers perspective. Why, for example, should not citizens still be tested at home, rather than by certified healthcare staff, so that school or restaurant visits or events are possible? A football match with 1,500 people, a theatre performance with 500 people and an app with negative test evidence are fine, but deployed so late that the roll-out will coincide with protection by vaccination. The policy is slow and fragmentary and offers little perspective for the population. Today, the creation of a strategy for differentiated application of measures in vaccinees is up to date. The placing of this at the OMT worries us about the aforementioned groove. Until now, the adage is maintained that everyone simultaneously reduces the measures. It is understandable to treat everyone equally, but vaccinees are unequal to unvaccinated. With increasing numbers of vaccinees, the principle of equality is no longer sustainable. Our advice is to get ahead of this rather than to get back on track again later. The third pattern is the increasingly limited dialogue between cabinet and society. In the spring we sensed an open attitude to make a policy with each other, to search together for what was possible, together against corona. How hollow does that phrase sound in the meantime? Fundamentally good proposals from society are not heard. Now there are posters in the abris to reach the cabinet. Also, my own, not so bad, proposal on the vaccination of overweight men has not resulted in a substantive discussion. Will the Minister undertake to make additional efforts to actively conduct this dialogue with society, including on substantive proposals? We look forward to the contours of the escape grape as the cabinet sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. You're at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u200	I'm at the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u201	Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u202	The first is deep respect for what Mr Van der Voort does in daily life. Deep respect for that. But I have just listened very carefully to Mr Backer. My question is whether this is what D66 thinks the role of the Supreme Court should be? So to discuss here in detail measures, posters, abri's et cetera instead of talking here about our role in legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u203	Our assessment was that there are two aspects to this debate. Firstly, the role of the First and Second Chambers as assessed by Mr Backer. Secondly, the measures which form the basis for an ever-needed extension of the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u204	Does Mr Van der Voort, through Mr Van der Voort, think that measures which are discussed in detail every week in the House of Representatives should also be repeated in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u205	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u206	We believe that we need to be clear about the measures leading to the extension of the Twm, which we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u207	Mr. Janssen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u208	To what extent does that deviate from the position taken by D66 in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u209	We'll make our own decision. Of course, we reflect on what our colleagues think. But we believe that we can form our own opinion here and express it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u210	Thank you. Mr Recourt, on behalf of the Labour Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Janssen motion is on today's agenda, with the temporary measures covid-19, which I shall refer to as 'Twm' in the future. This issue illustrates the functioning of our democratic rule of law and, in particular, the role played by the Supreme Court. The role of the First Chamber is, as far as I am concerned, the real subject of today. My group is concerned about our role of democratic correction at some distance from the government and the government agreement. I am quoting the Remkes Committee again. How can the Eerste Kamer better counter the actual monism in the House of Representatives? In the Janssen motion, the government is asked to allow the States-General to adopt decisive measures in the shortest possible time with regard to the extension of the Twm. In other words, decisive measures for both Chambers. Not in terms of the emergency measures themselves, but in terms of the basis of those measures. A quarterly reflection on proportionality, effectiveness and legality of fundamental right limitation, and all this at some distance from daily actuality. Precisely a role for the First Chamber. The government sets out nine scenarios for the implementation of the motion in its letter of 29 January. Eight of these require a change of law and the ninth is not to be taken seriously in my group's view. It reads: "A positive commitment from the government that motions from the two chambers on (not extending) the Twm will weigh very heavily. In this case, the Twm does not need to be changed." This is a commitment to respect a basic democratic principle and to implement the will of Parliament. I ask the Ministers, in particular the Minister of Justice, to indicate in what cases adopted motions do not weigh very heavily. In the formulation of scenario 9 there is still a viciousness, which can be better understood, namely where the government talks about motions from both chambers. We've been through this before. What should the government do if both Chambers disagree and lay down contradictory motions? The elaboration of the primacy of the House of Representatives is complex and requires care of all involved. For the sake of time, I will not go into this further, but this scenario is not happening at the moment. Only the Janssen motion is ahead. No explicit negative counterpart has been adopted by the House of Representatives. Taking into account Scenario 9, the question is why the government does not consider this motion to be very heavy, but rather slow. Not only did the letter come after a number of demands, but also the content seems, in my group's view, to be primarily intended to buy time. Here we see an example of the actual monism in the House of Representatives. The government and a large majority of the House of Representatives reached agreement on the content prior to the submission of the Twm, and thus the law was closed, even before it had been submitted to the House of Representatives. Fortunately, the First Chamber was not a party to this negotiation. But where the House of Representatives has rightly ruled for itself, it has not done so before the House of Lords. Where this is reasonable for emergency measures, as has already been argued, this does not make sense for the extension of the law itself and for very serious interventions in the personal freedom of citizens, such as curfew. The debate on the conditions under which the restriction of fundamental rights can be extended should also be conducted primarily by the First Chamber, because it affects the rule of law, its feasibility and its enforcement. It is therefore not about defending the institutional interests of the First Chamber itself, but about the underlying importance of checks and balances. I say to Mr Backer that we do not want to have an extra charge affair anymore, and we also want to prevent the judge from pulling the emergency brake again. Counterfeiting improves legislation. It increases her legitimacy and support. I would like to say once again that I see in the government that in times of crisis she finds the First Chamber difficult and unwelcomely delaying. Therefore, the question to the Minister explicitly what added value he sees of the treatment of the law in both chambers? Does the Minister have a preference for one of the nine scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u212	Can I ask Mr Recourt to remain practical in all state-law papers? The most serious issue, the curfew, was debated here a whole Friday. As Mr Nicolaï rightly pointed out with the right of transition, we have also been able to debate the content and material content of the curfew and the curfew that continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u213	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u214	My question is: have we not been able to control important areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u215	It is good that Mr Backer cites this example, because this was, of course, a debate against will and thanks. We would not have had that debate at all if the President of the Court of First Instance had not delivered a particular judgment that the government was uncomfortable. In short, with the example you give, you indicate exactly the need for this debate to be held occasionally in the First Chamber and to stand up for our own position. It didn't happen in the negotiations between the government and the House of Representatives. The position of D66 really amazes me here. I appeal once again to D66 to defend the constitutional position of the First Chamber and simply to give ourselves control on relevant parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u216	Today's agenda originally included the discussion of the Wbbg. So we could have talked about that. Now we can't speculate, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u217	Three b's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u218	Three b's. A b not enough. Wbbbg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u219	But what is your question, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u220	My question is this. We could therefore have had decisive control over such a measure. I cannot speculate on the outcome, but if I followed the debate last Friday, I think that a large majority in this Chamber does not think that such a measure should have been taken under that law.... We could have had decisive control. We have, thanks to an interim action which previously had control, in another variant. I am full of the role of the First Chamber, but appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u221	Then I know well, because Mr Backer says: on the basis of the Wbbbg it fits into the Upper House. I have heard other colleagues from both GroenLinks and SP in interruptions, as well as the Party for Animals in its term of office say: let us then arrange the arrangement of participation in the First Chamber in such a Wbbbg way. Do I understand Mr Backer correctly that D66 also thinks that this is a good proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u222	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u223	With one remark, which is that there again I do not know what my colleagues will think about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u224	That's what I'm getting at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u225	Thank you. Mr Recourt, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u226	Yes. The proper functioning of our two-chamber system requires prudence and a good awareness of everyone's role. The hard force to vote against the Twm, because the checks-and-balances are not properly regulated, did not fit in with a largely good and necessary law to combat a national crisis. A motion to restore some balance of power did fit and was therefore able to count on a majority. So once again, how is the government going to implement this motion? Is the government prepared to enter into consultation with the House of Representatives in order to examine, for example, whether the Twm can be modified by means of a recovery law in line with the motion? Is the government prepared to make a real commitment this time? It has already been mentioned briefly last Friday, but I would like to hear explicitly that the government is also going to make an active commitment to this, including corresponding legislative changes. The discussion with the House of Representatives will be much easier if the members there know that they are no longer committed to the deal with the government. Mr. Chairman. Back to the minister. The government, too, must now recognise the importance of a well-functioning system of checks-and-balances, even if only in order to prevent the judge from having to intervene at the very end, such as curfew. Let us together shape this interest further with the implementation of the Janssen motion and the NICOLAI motion. My final question: what is the Minister actually going to do to get the Janssen motion implemented in a way that reflects the importance of well-functioning checks-and-balances? Finally, Mr President. I've also been thinking about the role of the First Chamber. Mr Backer mentioned that too. Then you come to the question of whether the legality and practicability are in good hands here. That is what we are assuming when we ask for a greater role. Then I'll get to the supplemental affair. It is not at issue here, I say very clearly, but I have seen that it has not really been discussed anywhere so far. The First Chamber may also look in the mirror when it comes to its own role in the supplementing affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u227	Tonight we are debating this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u228	I'm surprised. I am going to take a good look at that, because I wanted to say that I am going to make a proposal on the JenV committee to get it right. I should like to ask my colleague who is doing that debate this evening, and then I will return to it, because that is not the case here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u229	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Democracy in quarantine: will the rule of law survive corona? That question was asked in Trouw almost a year ago. As early as March 2020, the importance of the democratic process was realised, especially at a time when the balance between security through restrictions and the protection of fundamental rights must be made constant. An open democracy requires transparent decision-making and comprehensive accountability. This is also necessary in times of crisis. This raises the question of how we could have gotten so out of hand in a year. Mr. Chairman. Our party has a number of strong objections to the current Corona policy. Behind many front doors, the tension is increasing. Lockdown and curfew take their toll. In many companies there is uncertainty. Gradually, the rack disappears from our society. We like to see many changes. Instead of a loose accumulation of measures, a coherent perspective is needed. We are firmly in favour of a realistic course. That is a course of action with a view to public health and effective interventions to maintain care. At the same time, that is a course without the blunt axe that has already caused so much collateral damage. We set out this approach in our deltaplan covid presented yesterday. Mr. Chairman. It is in this context that my group is looking at the control of the States General. We recognise that a crisis requires room for the cabinet to move forward, but we bear in mind that far-reaching measures call for continued close involvement of Parliament. After all, we represent the people. The democratic state of our rule of law is too important to subordinate to the wishes of the cabinet. The thrust of Mr Janssen's motion, co-signed by my group, is simple. Given that measures covid-19 are taken in the Temporary Law, it is essential for Parliament to have decisive control over the extension of the law. Both the Second and the First Chambers must be in a position to block further extension. However, it took no less than thirteen weeks, a quarter of a year, before the Minister's reaction to the motion at all. Of course, both ministers are busy. There was more on their plate, I recognize that. However, I would like to emphasise once again how essential this motion is. I would like to quote the President of the Italian Senate: 'The central role of parliament is crucial, especially when the government takes measures that restrict civil liberties and essential economic activities.' I would like to stress that this statement was also made in March 2020, when the corpse trucks in Lombardy drove off and on and the army had to come and rescue the coviddads. Even in this state of severe crisis, the Italians considered their parliament vital. I hope to be able to convey this interest to both ministers today. In his response, the Minister for Health points to the amendments which would give both chambers the right to block the extension of the law. The House of Representatives rejected them. However, this cannot and should not be an argument for not carrying out this motion. It is not possible to sell that the Lower House could decide that the Upper House should not carry out its duties. This certainly applies in the current crisis period, where the democratic process is essential to maintain popular support. From a political point of view, the cabinet also does not operate conveniently. Who knows how the relations in the Lower House will be after the elections. You'd think investing in a good relationship with the First Chamber would be top priority, but that aside. In his response, the Minister states that, depending on how the motion is implemented, there is a risk that "the government will be empty-handed in a crisis situation," as Mr Janssen referred to. I think this is an extremely worrying wording. Here there is a deep distrust towards both Chambers. I fully understand that the cabinet wants to be able to act quickly in a crisis situation. In fact, I think all senators understand that. And the Minister has no reason to complain, because he was able to agree on all the legislative proposals at a rapid pace. Despite heavy objections in both chambers against curfew, the law to legally anchor them was passed within four days. Four days! As far as I am concerned, therefore, this is an unjustified suspicion. This mistrust is devastating. Funest for the relationship between the cabinet and parliament, but also detrimental to the relationship between politics and citizens, because if the ruling and controlling power already treat each other with distrust, should the Dutch think of that? Mr. Chairman. It is absurd that we should be forced into this house to make a plea to the Minister to implement this motion. It is not a matter of secondary importance. These are fundamental rights and freedoms. It is essential that both chambers have the right to block the extension of a law restricting the fundamental rights of citizens. If the Minister is against this, then the burden of proof lies with him to show why this cannot be done and I very much hope that he has very serious reasons for doing so. I would like to conclude with a few questions to the Minister. Can the Minister give a final undertaking that the present motion will be implemented? Which mode of action does he consider most appropriate? Can the Minister promise that there will be a modality whereby the two Chambers retain their independent position within the parliamentary system? Can the Minister make it clear what timetable he has in mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u231	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I call Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, in the debate on curfew, I noticed that our country is at war with an invisible guerilla army of snipers and transformers and my group called on our government to take all necessary steps to defeat the enemy. To this end, I could limit my contribution today, as the present bill aims to extend our country's defense tactics over the next three months. But that would be a little too easy, because we are dealing with a reduction in fundamental rights. Nothing is for nothing, so I come to the end of my speech with a motion. Crisis times are characterised by the need to anticipate changing situations faster than usual. The First Chamber must also move and accelerate in this. I think we're gonna do the same. In other words, the well-known solid opinions on the country's legislation and implementation put into turbo-holding and projecting on rapidly changing social conditions. In these times, the rigid character can be reduced. The OSF notes that the support base for the covid measures is diverging. Citizens, businesses and institutions want to see perspective. The unequal treatment between different sectors and even within sectors is becoming increasingly problematic. The call for equal treatment is becoming more and more pregnant. The present extension of the law does not provide sufficient perspective. That is why today the First Chamber must press the government for a rapid change of course, with the motto being: to do what is necessary, to scale faster where possible. Last Friday, I concluded my speech on curfew with the observation that there is hope in the form of new vaccination weapons, which can finally defeat the enemy in the coming months. As a result, we are in a situation where an increasingly large part of the Netherlands is liberated, while another part still has to live under the yoke of far-reaching defence measures based on the temporary law. That is a little encouraging perspective, from several points of view. After all, vaccinees are safe, 50-minners are in little danger in the event of an attack and risk groups can still guarantee their own safety through risk-avoidance behaviour. My group therefore calls for this impasse to be broken as quickly as possible and for an integrated recovery plan to be drawn up, such as a Marshall Plan, so that people who have been liberated can return to freedom and risk groups that are not yet definitively protected can participate in society as normally as possible. Can we do that? Can the government draw up a Marshall plan as soon as possible to bring the Netherlands back to a normal society within two months, in which people can be together again, without keeping their distance and without that maleized mouth cap? That people can shake hands again, hug, give a kiss, put a hand around the shoulder. That that real, normal human contact can be restored. Have a dance on the dance floor, go out of your mind at an event or take a day trip together with the elderly in a fine full coach. That people enjoy life again! Mr. Chairman. England presented a new road map yesterday, Greece wants to allow vacations for vaccinees and at our universities there are test gardens with quick tests from home. There are also alternatives in development to find the way to normal through the separation of vulnerable and non-vulnerable. However, these plans are considered by the OMT to be insufficient in advance. Problem is asymptomatic cases, where there are no symptoms in the first days after the attack of the enemy, but snipers and transformers can already be active. However, there are certainly valuable elements in these proposals. The government should further develop this. Perhaps the sporting world offers an adequate alternative solution. Last months we could look jealously at the freedom of movement in some sports, such as Formula 1. In the middle of corona time, the enemy value was still full of fighting each other and in a victory they jumped each other around the neck without any restraint. Many people were wondering, why is that possible? Yes, Mr President, that was possible, because it has been shown that no major attack has occurred despite the far-reaching freedom of movement of athletes under and with each other. The proven answer to this sport method is: to create testing, testing, testing and bubbles. Perhaps a combination of these two systems is a solution. Create a total social bubble by testing, testing and testing. And preferably the results of such a daily test within five to ten minutes, so that people know where they stand and can start the day with a clean slate without infecting others. If everyone could test themselves in the morning or before the start of participation in society via a free quick test, one total and safe social bubble could be created for the Netherlands. Although these rapid tests do not yet provide 100% certainty, they offer a socially acceptable risk and could re-open closed shops, restaurants and restaurants directly and without danger. Negative tested: normal participation in social movement. Positively tested: asking discipline to stay home. And if necessary, you have just heard that in the contribution of the Party for the Animals, this can also be done on the penalty of action by the chairman of a security region or a minister. Could an integral Marshall plan based on these principles provide sufficient relief to liberate the Netherlands? There's hope. Make our country an example for the whole world, the country or hope and glory. We call on the government to start a new spring on 21 March and to present an integral liberation and recovery plan to relieve the Netherlands of this war situation within two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u233	Thank you, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u234	Depending on the answer, we are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. And if you'll allow me, Mr President, I'd like to read it to you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u235	In second term, that's a little later today. As soon as you submit that motion, you can read it to me as well. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u236	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u237	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I would like to give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u238	Mr. Chairman. "A First Chamber that cannot defend its own rights undermines its own right to exist." I spoke these words on 26 October 2020 during the discussion of the Corona Law of Minister De Jonge in the Upper House. That is why our group, together with Mr Janssen and a number of other groups, tabled the Janssen motion on that day, the 26th of October, four months ago. Four months, an eternity in this corona age. A tentative timetable, the Minister calls it in the reply to this Chamber. The emergency law was passed, even though our group voted against, but the Janssen motion which aims to ensure future involvement of the First Chamber was also adopted by a large majority of this Upper Chamber. In the House of Representatives, there have been many dozens of plenary corona debates and countless committee meetings, but if the Minister of VWS has to come to the First Chamber, there is always a working visit in Brabant or an important press conference or something else that prevents the Minister from coming. The fact that the First Chamber meets on Tuesdays has been the case since time immemorial, although today it is more and more often also on several other days of the week to facilitate the cabinet with urgent debates on all kinds of emergency and repair laws of these ministers. Where does this dedain or this fear of the First Chamber come from, I ask the Minister of VWS. Or does the Minister of the United States consider this First Chamber to be simply an on-call stamp machine which must quickly break down the dents in the legislation as a result of the Minister's legal car policy, preferably as a hammer piece without debate? But this is not about adapting one or other zoning plan or detail, but about limiting the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people, one of the most impactful legislative pathways in the history of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Temporary measures take the longest. Our group has made this point many times during the discussions on the various temporary corona laws. On 26 October I also gave a whole load of examples, such as the payroll tax, the WED et cetera. I'm not going to repeat all that now. Unfortunately, we see that these words also pay back in the case of temporary corona legislation. In the case of legislation with such great implications for fundamental rights, it cannot be that the role of the First Chamber is rendered ineffective by a debate in the Second Chamber. The ministers should therefore have prevented this from happening in the Lower House by accepting the Heink amendment and not agreeing with this little state-law quickie. The Janssen motion, also tabled by our group, is therefore a clear and clear signal to the cabinet that the state-law emergency brake must now be applied and that the role of the First Chamber must be effectively guaranteed. We would like to hear from the VWS Minister today how he intends to implement this motion effectively and quickly. If the Minister of VWS uses the usual timeline for the repair legislation that the Minister sends to this First Chamber at his tentative timeline, this can all be arranged within no time. Mr. Chairman. One of the laws that the VWS minister was very busy with last summer and with which he has wasted a lot of time is the law on the corona app. During the debate on the App Act last year, our group pointed out that this app was probably not going to work. What is the situation with regard to this, is our question to the VWS Minister, because we do not hear any more about it. How many people have downloaded the app now? How many people have removed it already? Please, bearing in mind the President's request, give concrete figures and answers. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Corona approach of the cabinet. As our group pointed out on Friday during the debate with Minister Grapperhaus on the legal problems surrounding curfew, it is very important to have an effective overall approach to combating the coronavirus. The different elements of the policy must complement and reinforce each other. It's like a plane: without wings you can't fly, but without engines and without tail either. The whole system of measures must be right. The instruments should be coordinated and mutually reinforcing in order to effectively control the corona contamination as soon as possible. And there must also be a perspective for the population and clearer communication from the cabinet to the population, rather than constantly changing messages that undermine one's own policies. Our appeal to the cabinet is therefore to approach the Dutch people openly with clear communication to increase the effectiveness of the corona approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u239	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I shall now suspend for 15 minutes, on request, until 12:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u240	I give the floor to Mrs Bikker, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday the curfew, today the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and of course the Janssen motion. The subject of these days determines for us the seriousness of this time. The consequences of the corona pandemic are severe and severe. As these springy days spread their first light and warmth, the restrictive measures clamp down all the more. It takes a lot of wisdom to operate in that tension field and control the pandemic without losing society and its understanding. Last Friday, the Christian Union Group gave its views on curfew, and now that the Wbbbg is no longer on the agenda, we will leave that issue to rest. The Janssen motion which we are discussing here is about the control of both Chambers in an extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. My group did not support that motion at the time, because in the current powers we saw enough room for the Upper House to operate. But that also requires wisdom and careful handling of the cabinet with fundamental rights and with the measures it takes in relation to this First Chamber. For the Christian Union Group, the starting point is that the choice of restricting fundamental rights must always be made through legislation and never through lower regulation. At that point, the First Chamber is up and running. Lower regulation should follow from this decision. That was exactly the inconvenience last Friday. I would like to thank the Minister for his reflection and for his preference for the normal legislative procedure. I would also like to thank the Minister for making the broad assessment of OMT opinions easier to understand. We would like to look forward to his letter on this, because precisely now that the crisis is taking longer, the crumple zones in society are getting bigger. Loneliness, loss of perspective, economic and sociological: this broad balance must be made and shared. Not for nothing have I, but for example also colleague De Boer and others in this house, on Friday several times referred to the wish for an IMT, an Impact Management Team. I hear that again today with Mr Van der Voort, although he is proposing a different name, but I think the idea is the same. That is precisely why I look forward to the promised steps of this cabinet, which we will soon be hearing by letter. Mr. Chairman. In view of the current situation, the Christian Union Group considers it absolutely clear that this Temporary Law measures covid-19 should be extended until 1 June. With regard to the power of decision, we did not support the Janssen motion. However, before 1 June, we too would like to discuss with the cabinet the chosen strategy and the handling of fundamental rights. In recent weeks, we have seen, with new measures, that good relations are not self-evident. I ask the Cabinet to consider whether there should be a role for Parliament and for this House on time, both in the field of testing and vaccination and in the field of scaling up or scaling down measures. Not only in the event of an emergency, but precisely in looking ahead to how we should proceed in the coming period. A long-term perspective, with different scenarios and embedded in time in the democratic process. I am now making an open invitation to the government to outline how it sees it. Mr President, you will understand and the government will understand that if there is insufficient guidance, the Chamber will continue to fill it in itself. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's answer on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the end. At the end of my speech today, all the appreciation for these rulers and all those people who support them. For a year they have been working day and night to cope with this crisis and seek the good for our society. I thank them for that. And of course I look forward to the answer. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u242	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u243	I hear Mrs Bikker talking about perspective. I and our group are very curious to see what the perspective for Mrs Bikker's group is with regard to the formal involvement of the First Chamber in extending or not extending the law. Would a kind of perpetual law situation be modality 10, so to speak, something to be welcomed by Mrs Bikker's group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u244	I think that Mr Nicolaï has listened to this point between the lines through all the modesty of my group, because we did not support the Janssen motion and have a different view on it. Then I do not think I am the first to point out exactly the direction in which the Janssen motion should be followed. In my opinion, we could also have had that discussion with the cabinet in good time in the old system, provided that the cabinet takes due account of fundamental rights and the position of the First Chamber. I am now very curious how the government reacts to modality 10. For me, it is particularly important that we ensure with each other that we regularly talk about matters that affect fundamental rights and that we all feel, including the people at home for a year, but always in the modesty of: this is the house of reflection, this is the house of review of legality and effectiveness, and not the home of the primate who also has his thoughts on every aspect of policy. I'm not saying that's what you're trying to do or that's what anyone else's trying to do. I am only concerned with which route we are taking and which procedure we will determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u245	Does Mrs Bikker agree with many of us here in this House that the situation is not just a temporary arrangement and that it seems that we are actually dealing with special rules for a long time, and that is precisely where the point is that the First Chamber should have formal control over the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u246	In fact, this is almost the core question that I put to the cabinet. It is quite natural that we should begin with emergency regulations. In the opinion of this Chamber, that took too long, but then that law came. That was still a temporary law, because we all hoped that this pandemic would soon be transitory. Now we see that the virus continues to circulate and that it even raises new questions about testing, vaccination and restrictive measures. That is precisely why I say to the cabinet: outline that perspective, think in scenarios and indicate what measures you are taking towards pandemics and society, but also how to maintain the democratic rule of law and thus guarantee the role of parliament in different responsibilities. So on that point I agree with Mr Nicolaï, albeit with a slightly different colouring, but we are used to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u247	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday the cabinet announced that the Continuing Act Article 8 Wbbbg temporary curfew has been repealed, now that last Friday the emergency law curfew has unfortunately been adopted. However, this withdrawal raises the question of what this means for curfew fines imposed in recent times, because this has also lost the legal basis for these fines now that the necessary continuing law cannot provide a basis for this. In view of the "nulla poena sine empty" principle, or the principle of legality that says "no penalty without law," my question is whether the Minister can indicate whether all curfew fines under the Wbbbg regime will now be cancelled and repaid. I'd like a response. The continuing law has been repealed, but the curfew measures are one-on-one linked to the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and thus to the Public Health Act. In the expert meeting for the Lower House last Thursday, Professor Voermans referred to this as a tactic of ball-ball in order to circumvent the court ruling. A curfew declared unlawful by the judge was still pressed. Voermans also warned, referring to his new book "Machiavelli in the polder," that the parliament should not be overwhelmed by the cabinet and should have a better eye for its own role. Last Friday we noticed how easy it is for the First Chamber to be pressured by the Cabinet to push through this emergency law with steam and boiling water and to offer the Cabinet the comfort of keeping two tracks in the air at the same time to make curfew possible. In view of this, the question is how the First Chamber sees its own role. On the one hand, we are talking today about the Janssen motion, which rightly asks for the First Chamber to be involved, but in the meantime, if the First Chamber is allowed to make an effort in front of the cart, it may only become a formality and a show for the stage. Also, the SP Group as the petitioner and other political groups that supported this motion were in the lead to serve the Cabinet with the emergency law on Friday, and they did not consider it necessary, as requested by the PVV, to postpone treatment until the judge had ruled. The chambre de réflexion was okay with having the minister debate it with the hand brake by not going into substance on matters that touched the appeal. The Senate did not consider it necessary to explain it controversially, as we had proposed. With such a weak attitude, there is all the more reason to abolish the First Chamber as a superfluous body. Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Law measures covid-19 is extended until 1 June. The curfew measures are now part of that. As said before, they were hung directly from Wbbbg. We must be very aware that this is a disproportionate measure which is intended as a state of emergency and which is very easy to use. For the sake of clarity, the PVV is against this at a time when the effectiveness has not been demonstrated and the justification remains inadequate. A measure of state emergency law is therefore subject to regular legislation, without the corresponding legal safeguards. The Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, the Wbbbg, from which the curfew is now suspended, originates even from the War Act of 1899. Which provided for situations of martial law. In 1952, this law for civil authority was separated from the law for military authority. This background shows the extreme circumstances for which the use of state emergency law is actually intended. Then it is disproportionate for an unproven effective measure to restrict the fundamental rights of our citizens and to lock them in their own homes every night. In addition, the appeal of a state of emergency must not be made too easy. Last week, GroenLinks list leader Jesse Klaver indicated that when he reached 76 seats he would immediately declare the climate emergency situation. It cannot and should not be the intention to invoke a state of emergency for such improper political use. Mr. Chairman. The extension until 1 June of the non-supported non-proportional Temporary Law measures covid-19, i.e. the Emergency Act, is a disaster for the catering industry, the shopkeepers, non-food market merchants, the recreation sector and fairground operators if they are not offered a serious perspective. As far as PVV is concerned, they must be able to open up their business responsibly. What we can expect is and continue to look at coffee with this cabinet. I therefore refer once again to the PVV motion Van Hattem, adopted in this Chamber in October, to indicate verifiable indicators in the case of measures. Now everything depends on the oracle of the Catshuis. On Sunday afternoon, a discussion will be held behind closed doors. It is also for Parliament to guess on the basis of which considerations and criteria decisions will be made. Next, according to a regular ritual, the oracle spell is leaked to the press, and then on Tuesday at 7 p.m., the land is dedicated to which sacrifices society may make again for the Catshuis oracle. But the parliament should not be overwhelmed by the cabinet. On the contrary, the controlling power must be on top of such radical measures as a control freak in order to guarantee democratic legitimacy and proportionality. It is precisely for this reason that it is essential to have verifiable indicators, to be able to review policies, to adjust them and to be able to pay for them where necessary. Now the cabinet always has an excuse or a goat path. Especially in the case of a outgoing cabinet, Parliament must take much tighter control over the control of power. So once again, when can we expect verifiable indicators from the cabinet? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Can the cabinet make it clear what prospects now lie for the catering industry, the shopkeepers, the carnival operators, etc.? Or do they have to go straight into the abyss? Is that what the Cabinet wants? How is it that the extremists of Antifa and the PKK were allowed to hold a demonstration march this weekend by Mayor Halsema through the streets of Amsterdam, running close together, while responsible entrepreneurs have to keep their business tight? What kind of randomness is this? The survival of our entrepreneurs must not depend on the arbitrariness of the Sunday afternoon reflection from the home of a outgoing Prime Minister, but on clarity and accountability. I'd like a response. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-3.u249	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch.
