ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the own-initiative proposal 34325, Proposal for a law of Mr Karabulut amending the Participation Act and some other laws relating to the introduction of a displacement test (Law Displacement Test). The plenary debate on this proposal had already begun and was suspended on 6 March 2018. The SZW committee has recently requested that the second-term plenary session be resumed. The Chamber has already agreed to a third deadline today, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always a great pleasure to deal with an initiative proposal. In our view, the Lower House cannot take its co-legislative role seriously enough. It is to be commended if there are MPs who have all that work to bring a bill to the finish line. Once it's here, that's about the finish line. In addition, in the biography of the Member of Parliament in question, this is her personal political finish line, so it is a special moment. It is also a special debate for another reason, because in the strictest sense this is the second term of a debate that was held almost three years ago in this Chamber, partly with other spokesmen... I was not even a member of this Chamber at the time and partly with the same spokesmen. That debate was then limited to one time limit, because there were still too many questions, which concerned the extent of the problem we are talking about and the effectiveness of the law and the ratio of those two. I say this because it is clear that at least as far as we are concerned, which we will be asking a great many more questions about in a moment, there can be no doubt that we agree with the initiator on how to combat repression. I wonder if there will be a speaker here who says he is actually in favour of repression. At least we are against repression. There's a whole history of that, too. I remember as a young city councilman in Tilburg, maybe Tiny Kox remembers, that in the early 1980s the city council was about the WVM, if I remember correctly. Then we got the job pool, the milking lanes and all the successors. Each time the same question was raised again: yes, fine, a good incentive, but at the same time, we are certainly not going to put well paid and steady work in the trash to put worse work in place under worse conditions and under a worse time horizon? So the dilemma is as old as Methuselah, I'll say. Then the debate is so old and every time it is about the same things. How big is the problem of this displacement? And in this case, then I get to the law, is this law gonna solve it, too? What does that law mean, should it contribute to a solution, for the practice of implementation? Those are the questions I want to put our contribution to. The fact that these questions are still there means that in the last three years, between the first and the second term, at least in our view there has been no unequivocal response to the scale of the problem. It has taken a long time, we have often asked for it, we have waited for the evaluation of the Participation Act, it should not benefit. Finally, there was a report from FNV Creditholders, for which I would like to congratulate them and immediately apologize that I was not present at the Square or the Binnenhof to speak with them. That was in my travel time from Tilburg. That report also provides material. It gives a number of examples of which I say: yes, you must really want something with that. But it does not necessarily indicate that this is a major and ever-increasing problem which this law must face. The same applies in optima forma for the report of the SP itself. It is also to be appreciated that political parties contribute to this. So we face a great dilemma: the objective of the law is fine, but there are still important questions. I will now give them a more solemn review, because in this Chamber we like to talk about proportionality, subsidiarity and feasibility. I always have to think very hard what exactly is meant, so I do it in my own way. As far as we are concerned, the word proportionality means: does this measure solve an existing problem? Are there no less radical ways to solve the same problem? A question that goes along with this is: do we not create new problems with the proposed solution? There is an important point for us. As I said, the initiator also states in her explanatory statement that this is an increasingly common problem. At the same time, at least we have not managed to get scientific, empirical studies on the table, which justify in time that there is indeed an increasingly common problem. SEO Economic Research also says that there is a problem with a size that you really wouldn't want to have, but there is nothing to suggest that this problem is increasing in size. Then of course you can say: even if the problem does not increase in size, does it not benefit then it does not harm; then we just do this law; it can't hurt? If it can't hurt, it's fine, but the question is if it can't hurt. We would like to hear some reactions, both from the initiator and from the minister. The proposed displacement test requires quite a lot, both from municipalities and from borrowers and employers. It requires an investigation, in which there is also a certain causality between the new job to be created and a potentially previously lost job or a job that you could also place under other circumstances. How do you prove, when it comes to displacement, that the other thing is that the causal link between the temporary job in the context of labour integration and reintegration and the job that is no longer or could have been created? I'm not saying I can't. I'll tell him it's a lot to ask. Our concern is that if we accumulate a lot of evidence there before an employer arrives at an additional placement or before a municipality enters into a placement in the context of participation jobs, which discourages employees and municipalities. Isn't it said "I'm willing to make a contribution, but give my portion to Fikkie if that brings with it such a piece of work, I'll take care of it differently"? Are we not off the hook, which means that the very desired work experience for people with a great deal of distance from the labour market does not continue because of the bureaucratic burden? That's a serious concern of ours. I would like to hear a reflection from the initiator and the Minister. I shall now dwell much less on subsidiarity. The Participation Act is, after all, the most important legislation on which this implementation test intervenes... I am prepared to hold my breath, Mr President, because I see an interruption, but I am looking at you as to whether that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u4	Don't hold your breath too long. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u5	Two Tilburgers to each other, that can never hurt so early in the morning! Oh, I still have my mouth cap on; all this is not so easy so early in the morning. I understand Mr Van Gurp when he says: will municipalities get started if they have to do a whole bunch of work? That is a serious question, but the reality is that it is not an optional matter. The law says that displacement is forbidden. With or without a bucket of work: it is forbidden. The only question is how is it to be assessed whether the ban is being enforced. That will have to be tested in some way. I understand the legislative proposal in such a way that the initiator says: if we do this right now in an AMvB, then the municipalities know what they have to do and then we do not put them in the complicated position of helping people with a return or a participation job and having to test them on the other hand. Is there anything reasonable in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u6	Sure there's something in there. I held my breath at the right time, because I placed it under the heading of subsidiarity. The key must be designed in an AMvB. But it is a legal regime, even as far as the AMvB is concerned, although it is said that it has to be on this and on that and on that. I would like to hear from the initiator whether lighter forms have been considered, in which the Empire does not stand above, but next to the municipalities. In which the Empire looks with the municipalities: boys, what do we do with this obligation under the Participation Act that repression is not allowed? We can see that in practice you are dealing with this very pragmatically. Does that give you enough grip? Or are there guidelines or hand-outs or ways to give them to you by mutual agreement? That's another thing than the fact that there's a need for a law. Our question is whether that has been considered. Has that alternative to a new law been considered? And if so, what are the results? Apparently, this has not led to satisfactory answers. Couldn't that be a lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u8	I am as curious as Mr Van Gurp about the answers of the initiator and the minister. But I understand the law in this way: don't make it too difficult for the municipalities, precisely by laying down the criteria to be tested somewhere. Otherwise, on the one hand, the municipality is the one to organise, create and, on the other hand, check whether it is doing the right thing. The latter is not optional, it has to be. I think it might be easier for a municipality if the case is settled nationally in an AMvB. I would also ask Mr Van Gurp to take into account in his considerations that it may not be the work suggested by some but that it could be a help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u9	We had not exchanged texts, but you are helping me effortlessly through the logic of my speech. Maybe my logic corresponds to yours. I come to the third point. What does this mean in the implementation by the municipalities? How heavy is this gonna be? Is it as hard as I'm guessing, or is that gonna get loose? The initiator says that's gonna go wild. But of course we have also received mail from the VNG. That is the mouthpiece on behalf of the congregations, and he says: please do not start, because we are very much against it. Asking the question is one. It's my question, too. But for the time being, I am not very optimistic to say to the author's brown eyes or to the minister's eyes: it will be a problem or it will be disappointing. That brings me to perhaps the point of the argument. Isn't it possible... look, if the government would come up with such a proposal... I don't know if the eyes are brown or blue, I can't see that behind the glasses. If the government were to come up with such a proposal and say: implementation is not so bad, then I am sure how we would reason here. Then we would not settle for that and say: do your homework over and come up with a proper execution test. If a proper execution test has been done and it shows that it is not that bad, then our weighting may look different than when the execution test shows that it is indeed a piece of work. Our primary question to the initiator is whether she is prepared to carry out such an execution test. It would make it considerably easier, regardless of the exact content of it, by the nature of the task of this Chamber to achieve a balanced weighting. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister on the same point. Of course not whether he can make an execution test possible, because that is what the initiator should do. But how he looks at the objections raised on the part of the implementation, by the VNG, but also by Cedris. How does he look at the somewhat optimistic view of the initiator of the project, who adorns her.... who sees no problem in that? That is, in essence, our argument. A sympathetic goal. Proportionality. And in relation to subsidiarity and implementation, I shall only use those words once again, however, the question of whether this is going to work properly, whether it is actually feasible. We would very much like to see a more detailed argument and a more detailed implementation test in order to make our final assessment. I am genuinely curious about the answers and the progress of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mrs Sent on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good work is the basis of a good life. It offers income and future, it is fun with your colleagues, it offers the opportunity to continue developing in and through your work. Good work is therefore always more important than short-term financial gain. Too many people are dying to get involved, but they're out of the way. Too many people lack appreciation for the important work they do for us. Too many people sit at home unintentionally, too much work of value remains. With other choices, an economy is possible in which everyone can do meaningful work. Therefore, the PvdA chooses trust, perspective and space instead of registrations, checks and check-out lists, for work instead of benefits. That's the choice that everyone matters. Mr. Chairman. The examination of the initiative proposal of Member of Parliament Karabulut was terminated at her request three years ago. The debate questioned the need for the initiative proposal, its feasibility and undesirable side effects. The initiator then asked for an arrest because she wanted to carry out further research into the extent of displacement through the Participation Act. I would like to reflect on the studies that have appeared, and the results thereof, and give an update of the individual focus points. But first, my group would like to thank the initiator for the hard work she has done in presenting the initiative proposal and in providing additional insights. We support the purpose of her legislative proposal, let there be no misunderstanding about it. With the initiator, the PvdA considers that employees and self-employed persons without staff should be protected from unfair competition by unpaid or low-paid workers. However, my group is not yet convinced that the legislative proposal is the right means to achieve that goal. We would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss this in plenary with the initiator and the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group is questioning the need for the legislative proposal before us. Although the FNV mentions some cases involving displacement, it remains a problem that there are no figures on the extent to which displacement occurs in practice. The report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau states that there is little empirical evidence of unwanted displacement in the Netherlands. This leaves the question of the need for the legislative proposal before us. This doubt about the need is increased when looking at the report of SEO Economic Research. The risk of displacement through the consideration and reintegration pathways is not excluded, but is limited. Especially in return, the risk of displacement according to SEO is often low, as this usually involves tasks such as visiting lonely elderly people, shopping for people, helping in the church and other clearly additional matters. Where displacement is taking place, the short-term consequences for individuals due to the loss of their jobs can be significant, especially as these are groups at the bottom of the labour market. In the longer term, according to the SEO report, a large proportion of people return to work and the loss of income remains slightly higher, meaning of displacement according to SEO. But the question is what is seen as undesirable displacement. It is the aim of social return to provide more opportunities for people with a long distance from the labour market, and this automatically reduces the opportunities for other job seekers. That is why I ask the initiator what lessons she draws from the studies of the SCP and SEO on the need for a displacement test. Mr. Chairman. The Participation Act states that in the case of reintegration pathways and in return only additional work and displacement is prohibited. The initiative aims to clarify the existing rules on displacement with this test, so that they can be applied in a clear way by municipalities. However, my group wonders whether the proposal before us provides clarification and clarity against the background of a core task of this Chamber, namely to assess the feasibility of legislation. It may be that the test will not serve as a solution to the problem. In practice, the displacement test could only be dismissed as an additional formality. The legislative proposal makes it difficult to imagine what the law will mean in concrete terms for municipalities and civil servants. How does the initiator prevent municipalities or employers from saying one thing and then doing the other? And how does the bill ensure that municipalities know better what to do to combat repression? In addition, some municipalities fear that the present legislative proposal will not clarify the Participation Act, but in practice merely creates more regulatory pressure. The bill assumes little confidence in the officials who carry out placements and ignores the common sense of these people to decide for themselves when there is a revolving door effect. How does the initiator see the relationship between the present proposal and the responsibility of municipalities for implementing the Participation Act? Moreover, the distinction between desirable and undesirable displacement in the law is not yet clear at all. There have been border cases, for example, where there is a context for displacement. The question often asked in the event of displacement is whether there is work that can theoretically be done by regular workers. But this question will have to be asked in the following way: would this function be a regular workplace if there were no voluntary work or reintegration pathways? According to the above-mentioned SEO report, only the first criterion of the present legislative proposal, namely that displacement is unfair competition based on salary and/or working conditions, is really about displacement. According to SEO, the rest of the criteria may occur without the need for displacement. The Institute therefore concludes that the definition used in the present legislative proposal is not accurate enough to carry out a test on displacement. I would like to hear the initiativer's reaction on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the potentially unintended side effects of the present initiative proposal. The introduction of a test on displacement prevents the use of people with benefits leading to the displacement of paid work, says the initiator. But what if a test on displacement hinders municipalities in the reintegration of vulnerable groups into the labour market? This is exactly where customisation is desired. In doing so, activation pathways, learning jobs, work while maintaining benefits and pilot placements are valuable tools to maintain vulnerable groups in the labour market. My group considers it undesirable for effective reintegration instruments to be blocked in whole or in part. Does the initiator agree with us that such tailor-made work should be done at local level and in consultation with the social partners? In addition, situations may occasionally arise where what we generally consider to be undesirable displacement can nevertheless have a relatively positive effect. For example, SEO sets out the following example: "If there is less government budget available for work in low economic conditions, this can be met with the consideration. Strictly speaking, there is repression: paid labour becomes unpaid labour. At the same time, the consideration can ensure that social production and prosperity are maintained in a situation where budgets are shrinking." Says SEO. According to the SEO report, the debatable definition entails the risk that municipalities will be limited in their ability to obtain job-seekers' work experience which will give them a better position on the labour market, which is necessary in order to have a job at all. The rigorous test can therefore hinder the process of reintegration. My question to the Minister is whether he shares this concern. Mr. Chairman. When advising on the legislative proposal before us, the Council of State did not see any compelling justification for intervening in the Participation Act. Furthermore, the Council of State considered that the current legislation already provides in many places for the obligation to check for undesirable displacement. After all, the Participation Act prohibits displacement. As a result, municipalities ensure the prevention of displacement in a variety of ways. In January 2021, the SP has now launched a study on how municipalities deal with displacement in practice. That research concerns eleven cases, following questions from local SP politicians in municipal councils. This concludes that a number of municipalities do not test, another partially test and some municipalities extensively test for displacement. There are several comments to be made on this study. First of all, it looks at whether or not to test displacement, so it is already assumed that a displacement test is the solution to the problem of displacement. There is no research into the phenomenon of displacement itself and the extent of the problem. Finally, there are doubts about the classification of municipalities in the categories "not', "partly' or "displacement test'. Let me take one example. According to the SP report, the municipality of Leiden does not test for displacement. However, Leiden strives as much as possible for regular and paid work, in which the displacement test is not discussed. Working with continued benefit is only used in situations where there is no displacement. In short, from the fact that Leiden does not have a displacement test, it is certainly not possible to conclude that there is displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u12	I saw the finger. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u13	Happy birthday. These are always special moments. At least you can have a lot of people on your birthday this time, when you shouldn't be at home, so that's an advantage of this nasty situation. Mrs. Sent says that displacement should not be allowed, but should you take a displacement test? My simple question is: if displacement is prohibited, then it will have to be examined whether it is taking place. Otherwise, it's a frivolous ban. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u14	Yeah, and I'm gonna get to the way municipalities do it. For example, Divosa has given a hand delivery to municipalities and TNO's Performance ladder Socialer Entrepreneurship offers a hand delivery. So there are all kinds of ways, and that is important precisely because there is tailor-made work here, because special groups need to be led to the labour market and tailor-made work is needed. The concern I have expressed earlier is that the displacement test may hinder such tailor-made work, rather than promoting the opportunities of transferring vulnerable groups to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u15	That's right, customization on the part of the municipality who tries to get someone to provide a return or try to get into a participation job. But no customization is the general prohibition in the Participation Act. This is not an optional issue, it is a mandatory ban, and mandatory bans must be tested equally everywhere. We'll agree on that. We're not going to apply customization to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u16	Well, you could say, maybe it's better to maintain it instead of laying down more rules for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Kox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u18	However, I hope that we will have to agree on this, not by someone who says 'I find this or that', but on the basis of criteria. Anyone who has to deal with enforcement is entitled to say: but on what basis is it said to me that a job has been replaced? I don't quite understand the Labour Party. Displacement is prohibited, but it is said that control should be tailor-made. I think there's something wrong with that. Perhaps Mrs Sent will come back to that in the rest of her speech, but for me that continues to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u19	What wrings for me and what I'm really worried about is a number of things. First of all, it is unclear what the scale of the problem is. All the reports from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, SCOs, economic research, all indicate: we do not find that much displacement. That's one question, the need. Then the question is: is this the right solution? According to SEO, this key is larger than what is actually unwanted displacement. SEO says that only the first criterion is undesirable displacement. If you make the test that big, aren't you just holding back the opportunities of the vulnerable groups we need to come up with? That's the tension field. I hope that we can get some clarity on that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u20	But you're gonna come up with that, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u22	A final remark: the law does not talk about unwanted displacement, but about displacement. I mean: mandatory law is mandatory law; repression is prohibited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u23	You will continue your speech, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u24	Yes. This is a very nice little bridge to my next paragraph. There are legal and non-legislative frameworks to prevent displacement. For example, the Participation Act prohibits displacement. Divosa has also made a handout for municipalities to help them prevent displacement. The use of the Performance ladder Socialer Ondernemen, PSO, by TNO is also a good example of taking local responsibility. By using the PSO, municipalities prevent displacement and reward companies that give people a sustainable chance. How does the Minister assess such alternative ways of securing the prevention of displacement by municipalities? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Displacement is undesirable according to the PvdA; let there be no misunderstanding about it. At the same time, the Participation Act requires creativity and the search for new arrangements to help people from a distance to the labour market to work sustainably. That requires customization and experimental space. The more the execution is controlled, the more difficult it becomes to find and use that necessary space. Of course, there is chaff among the choirs of employers and reintegration service providers; let there be no misunderstanding about that too. That needs to be addressed. The PvdA is keen to focus on an inclusive labour market, on encouraging employers to set an example on their own as a government. This could lead to a lot more for the people who are involved than even more rules. To quote one of our aldermen: the present bill is a typical example of a good intention that does not work in the execution and runs counter to local customization. We would like to be convinced otherwise by the initiator and look very much forward to her answers, and to those of the Minister, to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for letting us get to work so early. I was allowed to get to work earlier because the FNV had decided to organize an action in all the early days, and then not on our doorstep, but in front of the House of Representatives. I do not know if that was the case in terms of licensing, because otherwise I think that the union should also know that we are meeting here. But it was a nice action. Together with Mr Van der Burg, I was allowed to show what the effect of this law could be if displacement takes place, which jobs do not fall over. I thought it was an extraordinary cooperation between the left-wing VVD and the left-wing SP. It tasted a little bit like more, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u27	The formation has begun, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. In 2013, the House of Representatives adopted a motion from the members Hamer and Kerstens, both of the Labour Party, calling on the government to formulate rules of the game with measures and objective criteria so that displacement is prevented as much as possible and then monitored accordingly. Unfortunately, the government at the time did not implement that motion. Two years later, the implementation was carried out by MP Sadet Karabulut through her own initiative proposal Act displacement test. Good work, said a large majority of the House of Representatives sixteen months later when the bill was passed. That large majority voted in favour of the bill. Ms Karabulut accepted the request of the President of the Chamber on the other side to defend the passed bill in the First Chamber on behalf of the House of Representatives. That's what she's doing today. We're glad it's finally time. It has taken a long time, I say to the initiator and to all of us. The first deadline took place on March 6, 2018 It has already been said and we are three years further today. That's a bad thing. Good work takes time, but this is too much time. I would like some clarification from the initiator, and perhaps also from the Minister, on the length of the debate. Mr. Chairman. Done business doesn't take place and unfinished business doesn't take place either. It would be nice if the Minister could say: 'It wasn't up to me this time'. It's an open chance. We've been instructed by the chairman to be especially courteous. However, things have not been done, nor have they been done, so let us try to be swift today in particular. For my group, this bill is appropriate. It simply gives more substance to a mandatory ban on displacement laid down in the Participation Act in 2015: undesirable displacement of paid labour by labour to which people with welfare benefits or sometimes a WW benefit are required in the context of providing a consideration, within the framework of a reintegration process or under a so-called social return agreement. In doing so, the bill does what the House of Representatives considered appropriate. The proposal does not affect the responsibility of the municipality or the responsibility of the UWV, but establishes clear criteria at implementation level for assessing whether or not paid labour is being pushed out by unpaid labour. Mr. Chairman. Not all groups were convinced, three years ago, when discussing the proposal, that this proposal is simple and appropriate to combat such repression. They asked questions about the nature and extent of the problem and about the feasibility of the test laid down by the bill, in particular by the municipality. At the time the bill was discussed here in the first term, there was also little information available to measure its effectiveness and feasibility. In my view, this had and has to do with the fact that the government is not prepared to carry out its own investigations into these matters and that each municipality is therefore pursuing its own policy, which means that an overall overview was not available and is still not available. I suppose I'm getting that right. That is what I am asking the initiator, but in this case also the Minister. Why didn't we get that overview from the government? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we have recently had a definite report from the FNV on displacement through reintegration pathways and volunteering. In that report, the Netherlands' largest trade union argues in favour of establishing a displacement test in laws and regulations. The trade union therefore recommends that the present initiative proposal be introduced as soon as possible. I think that's the language of such an important organization. Mr. Chairman. Our group welcomes the FNV report and also welcomes the last call made to us this morning by FNV Vice-President Kitty de Jong on the Square. She, the Vice-President of the FNV, asked us to say, weighing everything, yes to this bill in the interest of all those who currently carry out paid work that could possibly be threatened by unrewarded work by people with welfare or WW benefits, and in the interest of those who will try to get paid work in the future to what is called disrespectful and wrongly "the underside of the labour market": low-paid jobs, usually carried out by people with little education. Precary jobs are also often threatened not only by displacement, but also by the whims of the economy as such and last year, in particular, by the effects of the corona crisis. Last week, for example, there was a report that at the end of last year 60,000 young people aged between 15 and 25 who had a flexible employment one year before had lost it. For them, and for all those who depend on low-paid jobs, it is very important that those jobs are not replaced by people who have to pay in return from the municipality or take up a participation job in the context of their reintegration into the labour market. It is to be commended that the trade union movement is so strongly committed to their interests, especially at the extremely difficult time in which we have now arrived and which will not be easier in the coming months, perhaps years. Interesting in this context is also the positive opinion of the General Confederation of Transmitter Enterprises on the present legislative proposal. The ABU is proposing that we vote in favour of this bill. Much of the work that runs the risk of getting pushed away is offered by the temporary employment agencies affiliated to the ABU, so that advice counts. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, in the absence of a national control obligation at municipal level, the ban on displacement as laid down in the law is still being implemented in different ways. Keep it that way, says the Association of Dutch Municipalities in her appeal to this Chamber. I can understand that, but I also think that we should point out that the UNG represents the municipalities that are instructed by the government to fill in the compensation and to create participation jobs. In short, as a representative of the municipalities, the VNG does not have such a great interest in a robust review framework, because then it might get in the way of itself. I understand that well, but I believe that this legislative proposal solves this problem for the municipalities. The call of the VNG does not present any new arguments to us. Reference is made briefly to a letter dated three or four years ago. I don't think that's strong. In that letter, the VNG said that the bill should not be adopted because it came too early, that it was premature, that there were concerns about feasibility and that the role of the municipalities could be compromised. After four years, one might expect the VNG to come up with stronger arguments and certainly more factual information, since the bill can no longer be called premature and the municipalities hope that - the VNG have given an insight into their experiences in tackling the displacement problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr Kox knows that I always listen to him with a lot of study, especially when he calls on the industry organisation of flex workers as the main witness a charge to support him. Anyway, I'd like to leave that there. I thought it was an interesting letter. My question is about what he says about the VNG. In our debate just now he said: could the municipality not experience support in it, could it not help? Now I understand that he dismisses the VNG's letter as: probably that's what the municipalities say, because it only bothers them when it gets there. Which one is it? Does it just bother them and you don't have to take their writing seriously? Or could they have been helped, as you suggested in the interrupting debate earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u30	The congregations are ordered two things that don't bear each other so well. Secretary of State Van Ark stressed that, when this was still in her portfolio, the consideration had to be implemented everywhere, no exception, and the participation jobs needed to be created. It is very difficult for municipalities to realize that. They're gonna look for it, they're gonna try to realize it, and they're gonna look for customization to fix it. On the other hand, the law that we have established here says that repression is prohibited. That needs to be checked, but in the system we have, the municipalities have to check it. They have to control themselves. Well, you can, but it's not easy. That is why I believe that this bill provides a solution to this problem. A national framework will then be established and it will be easier for the municipalities to do this dual task: on the one hand, looking for suitable unpaid work under the Participation Act and, on the other hand, taking a fair test of whether there is no displacement. That is why I expected the VNG not only to press one, but also to mention the other. She didn't three years ago, and she still doesn't. I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u31	Let's have a quick word. You say it's actually helping the VNG, because it makes it easier for the municipalities. Well, I'd love to, too, but apparently they don't think so. That is a dilemma that we are dealing with. I said goodbye to the misunderstood class consciousness a long time ago, so if they themselves say it's not easier for them, then it's not easier. Then we can still choose, but when they say 'you're making it difficult' and we try to be in favour of it with the argument that we're making it easier again, I find that difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u33	It's tricky, too. I happen to know that the VNG has not had a recent discussion on this subject, in which new information has been requested. It was simply said that we thought that was then, and we still do. I would have liked it better if the VNG had said: "What about this contradiction, which we did not ask for but what we are confronted with? Because we have to do the government's compensation, we have to work on participation jobs and we have to test for displacement." I think that the bill now before us gives the municipalities a helping hand in doing so. I think that municipalities can be very capable of doing this, but I think that a representative of the municipalities should also be asked to highlight both sides of the coin. I miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u34	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we also received a letter from VNO-NCW with negative voting advice, so to speak. However, I have the impression that the letter, which came at a very late stage, is a misunderstanding. VNO-NCW talks about vulnerable workers from the job agreement, but that is really not the case we are talking about here. These workers must indeed be protected, but the displacement test has nothing to do with that. I see that correctly, I ask the initiator and the Minister. By the way, I saw in that letterhead also SME Netherlands acting as a co-signator. I understood that SMEs have a slightly different view of this law. Perhaps that can be clarified. It is nice if we receive calls on behalf of everything, but then it must also be carried by those organisations. Mr. Chairman. If we compare opposing opinions on the legislative proposal, we in the SP Group find that the trade union has done much more on its advice than the VNG and VNO-NCW. Where, as far as I can see, the VNG wants to stick, above all, to the principle that municipalities are the only ones dealing with the implementation of the legal ban on repression, in my opinion, the FNV is better placed on the ground. As a practical socialist, I attach much more importance to this approach, you will understand. If I have to choose between advice from those who try to create unpaid work, for good reasons, against the advice of those who take the view that they should, above all, protect the jobs of the low-paid and the low-skilled, then I value that second opinion more than the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mrs Stienen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u37	For the record: I am not the spokesperson for the VNG here, but I must say that I think this is a bit of a crazy reasoning when, in 2017, with very substantive arguments, you looked critically at an initiative legislative proposal, which we are discussing today, and four years later, in 2021, writes in a letter: "We still support these arguments," with a letter stating very clearly that the SP report with eleven examples from 355 municipalities is not convincing. Then I find it, just for the record, very strange that the spokesperson for the SP, Mr Kox, says: I do not understand the VNG; why do they not come up with better arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u38	Of course, the VNG can say: that report from a number of SP departments is not convincing. Nor do I think it is the highest example of in-depth research. But I don't think you should ask that on this point either. We have done a hand-out, because everyone is asking for data. Well, at least that was some data! The VNG should have said to us: "Look, this is the SP's little investigation. This is not a big deal, but after three years of experience, we have these facts and these data on the table and we base our conclusions on them." I am disappointed by the VNG that the organization which would be ideally suited to visualize this, which is still not possible after three years, but which continues to say that the law is premature, that it is too difficult to implement and that it is not a solution to a problem. A large organisation such as the VNG can you expect her to put that data on the table herself, because the minister has not done so so so far? I think it is reasonable to say to the VNG: "It is too easy to refer to a letter you wrote three years ago. What has the VNG as an organisation now with facts on the table?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u39	The VNG is about her own analysis. What strikes me is that in all sorts of other reports Mr Sent has already mentioned a number of examples of this, such as those of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, there is actually no demonstrable analysis and no facts and trends, which indicate a really worrying displacement in the labour market. Maybe that's the reason for the VNG, but they have to tell us that themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u40	But the opposite has not been put on the table either, I say to Mr Stienen. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau hasn't looked at this part of the Participation Act, so we don't know that. And SEO, quoted by Mrs Sent, says: we cannot really say anything about that. That is precisely why the VNG and the Minister would have been the two main bodies to provide us with information. To conclude that if you don't get that information, there wouldn't be, I find it a little too easy. We are talking here about people in the most precarious situation, who have a job or who are dependent on it, and who are threatened by potentially unpaid, unremunerated labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u41	Please continue your argument, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u42	To sum up, the present legislative proposal is a result of the wish expressed by this Chamber a long time ago, first by motion, then by this bill, in order to avoid displacement if the government obliges people with benefits to unremunerated activities. The trade union movement strongly advocates the adoption of this bill. We prefer, all things considered, the certainty that this bill offers to people with low-paid jobs rather than the uncertainty of moving forward with a statutory ban on displacement, without uniform scrutiny by those who put people on benefit unremunerated to work. The proposal before us protects the weakest in the labour market and prevents people with benefits from doing work which they know or assume has been replaced by previously paid work and which may have put someone else in the same situation as they are: out of work and dependent on benefits. How much better the protection provided by this law will indeed have to be proved in practice. But that is the hallmark of a lot of new legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u43	I would like to discuss three things briefly with Mr Kox. First of all, he criticises the VNG for the fact that no research has been provided and that another old letter is being taken out of the closet with some additional insights. But the assignment to the initiator was right to carry out research to convince the Senate of the need for the present bill. Then I find an investigation of the SP in eleven municipalities not convincingly justifying the need for the present legislative proposal. I really want to support it and I had really hoped that the initiator would have taken everything out of the closet. I'm very sorry that that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u44	What's your short question, Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u45	That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u46	Indeed, we have all given this order to the initiator: put as much as possible on the table. We have also heard from the initiator what the problem is: the problem is that the government refuses to identify the problem, not out of rudeness, but because it thinks that the municipalities should do so. Because that's decentralised, so the government isn't about that anymore. She's not gonna check what she's not about anymore. So from a government perspective, we can't get that information on the table. The municipalities could, through the VNG, put that on the table, but they don't. Then the two main sources of information have already dried up before we have been able to visualize them. The third source of information is the Dutch largest trade union, the FNV, and at least it has submitted a report. So we can keep saying that that little SP research isn't that big of a deal, I'm not impressed by it either, but my party hadn't ordered anything to turn on anything to do an investigation. The VNG should have done that, the government could have done it and the union did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u47	That's a bridge to my second question. Mr Kox was critical of the government, which did not carry out an implementation test on the initiative proposal. But the initiators also commission execution tests for the initiative proposal. I find it so complicated to see, precisely from the perspective of the First Chamber, when it comes to feasibility and the burdens involved, whether this is feasible and how it should take shape in practice. Mr Van Gurp mentioned this as well. Does Mr Kox agree with me that more is really needed for this Chamber to get a clear picture of the feasibility of the legislative proposal before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u48	I would have loved it if the VNG had given us a report like the union gave us. I would have loved it if the government had said: it is not officially our job, because the Participation Act has decentralised this, but we can nevertheless inform you of the state of play with this information. The initiator was asked whether she could have another investigation carried out by one or other body, and she said that this information must come from the municipalities and from the government, which I cannot order. It would be very nice if we could manage to get that information on the table from a government or from a VNG perspective. That would be very good and very useful for this Chamber. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mrs. Sent, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u50	Yes, that was the answer to my first question. My second question was about the execution test. The initiator has chosen not to carry it out himself, although that is important information for this Chamber to assess the feasibility of the legislative proposal. Then there is my third point. A potential concern in this legislative proposal is that it hinders vulnerable groups. These points are raised by Cedris in correspondence, but also by VNG, Divosa and VNO-NCW, whether or not with SMEs. That is precisely a target group the SP is concerned about. Is Mr Kox not concerned about the unintended side effect, namely that routes for the vulnerable are hampered by the present legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr. Kox. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u52	I think it is a concern for all of us that vulnerable people, for example, can be helped to gain work experience through participation jobs. That is of the utmost importance, and I do not think that is at issue. But I'd like to avoid people going on such a trajectory thinking: do I take the job of someone who got paid for it? I would also like to point out that the trade union is also doing so on the other vulnerable group: the people who are just working, often in precarious situations and often in temporary employment agencies. That is why I consider the letter from the ABU to be relevant. Their work is under threat. If their work is replaced, they will be in the same situation as the other vulnerable group. I think it is important to bear in mind the importance of those who are helped by unpaid work, hopefully on the way to a job, but I think it is at least as important that the jobs of people who work in a precarious situation are not threatened. People who work elsewhere are not threatened by the consideration or by a participation job. At the top of the business world and at the top of the civil service, you will not be replaced, but it is of the utmost importance that we also protect the people who are happy that they just have a job with which they can make a living for their families. I think there's a little too little eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u54	That's why I was so happy with the union report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u55	May I ask Members to keep the interruptions somewhat brief and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u56	The answers, too, I suppose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u57	... the answers somewhat and as far as possible succinctly? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u58	Mr President, I am going to finish, with three minutes and 33 seconds left on the counter. I'll finish with a question to the Minister. I am aware that successive governments have so far been unenthusiastic about this bill. There may be good reasons for this, but nevertheless it did not prevent the House of Representatives from saying: yet we think it is important that this happens, in view of the effects for people who have a job and who might lose that job if they were replaced. In spite of the government's position, this House may also say: we believe that this law should be passed. But it would be even better if this minister said: "With us there is also talk of moving insight. We also see how important it is to preserve precarious work in particular and not to disappear. All things considered, it may not be so unwise for the minister to make an AMvB which regulates this displacement test, after which the municipalities have a clear mandate and the dilemma they are facing is solved, namely, on the one hand, creating unpaid labour and, on the other hand, controlling displacement." What would be better than if the Minister said to us today: weighing everything up, I think that in these particular circumstances, in which we can expect major problems, especially in the lowest working class, it might be nice to adopt this bill? I look forward with interest to his answers and to the answers of the initiator. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Van Kesteren, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are continuing the previous examination of this draft initiative. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Karabulut for her commitment to this important issue. The labour market is an important issue in its entirety, but the position of people who are struggling on the labour market certainly deserves our attention. I very much appreciate the efforts she has made in this regard, and I would also like to thank her in general for her work in the past period. It has already been recalled that it has been years since we discussed this draft initiative for the first time. The problems have not changed since then. If you look at it a little more broadly, we are actually talking today about the problem: how do we manage to get people from a distance to the labour market to work? Displacement is part of this problem. These problems are persistent. Traditionally, social work companies play a major role in this. This role has been greatly reduced under the Participation Act. It is well known that my party, together with the SP, has the plan to give social workers a greater role in the future. That is important, because there are people who are unable to provide for their maintenance with regular work. However, there are also many people who can. I think that is essential for what I want to say today. In my spare time, I am chairman of The Normalest Cause. This is a partnership of around 600 entrepreneurs pursuing an inclusive labour market and setting themselves as a goal to employ people who are distanced from the labour market. In spite of what you sometimes hear, that works well, like the 100,000 job plan, which runs well and works well. 53,000 people have been posted in the last six years. I think that is a sign that entrepreneurs are also concerned about the fate of people with disabilities. Mr. Chairman. It is my belief that in the future a new social work environment will have to work closely with inclusive employers in government and business. A new balance sheet is needed on the labour market, even at the bottom of the labour market. The essence is that instruments are needed for this. For example, working while retaining benefits, for example to enable test placements, is such an instrument. Like the municipalities and the UWV, my group fears that the proposed displacement test which the draft law intends to introduce will, for example, prevent pilot placements in this field. Cedris and Divosa also fear this; it has already been mentioned. They also fear major implementation problems. This would be at the expense of people who are remote from the labour market. That is not good and it would achieve exactly the opposite of what the initiator wants. That is also a question I ask her: how does she look at this contradiction? How are we supposed to deal with that? Like other speakers, I believe that repression is a bad thing and that repression must be avoided. Moreover, there are reports that have already been referred to, which say that it is not all that bad with this displacement, but I am sensitive to the argument that it is not good that people who are already in a vulnerable position are pushed away by others when they are just working. That's what we need to talk about today. There's not much evidence. The years behind us have not brought that forward. The sympathy I have for the proposal actually runs counter to the lack of facts which would support the proposal. The investigations that lie there are not really convincing. We believe that the proposal involves a great deal of bureaucracy and will not be effective. That is why my group has serious doubts about the desirability of this proposal. But we look forward to the discussion and hope that there will be arguments that will allow a review, because the sympathy lies with the idea behind the proposal. But I'm not convinced of the need right now. Let's talk about it today, Mr. Chairman. Then we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. As beautiful as Mrs Sent-Off whom, of course, I also congratulate on her birthday, I cannot say at all. But work is to participate, to meet, to have contacts and to get, to be hope and to be future. The Participation Act, sometimes summarised as "work, work, work," is, as far as I am concerned, mainly about participation and opportunities. I am saying this now, but I shall come back to this in the course of the debate as well. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Karabulut for being here. That's always a special moment. It is a reunion for us, because we are former colleagues in Amsterdam. It's a reunion for me today with SP'ers anyway. Mr Kox mentioned it for a while: this morning he and I were at the FNV meeting at the Square. Thanks for the compliment; my career within the VVD is now completely out of control. This meeting was organized by my former colleague in Amsterdam, and I would almost say your successor, Maureen van der Plicht. With her I was allowed to do the negotiations in order to arrive at a SP/VVD coalition, where D66 was also necessary to get a majority in Amsterdam. Those were extremely good negotiations. Those were strong talks. But I can tell you: if you have negotiated with SP'ers, the signature has been signed and the hand has been shaken, then they will stick to it. In this particular case, therefore, I refer to it as a matter of fact, there was a problem. That was the fact that the coalition agreement also talked about participation jobs. In the end, that was something for Mrs Van der Plicht that she could not carry. She did that in a principled way. She remained a member of the SP and she left the group. She did not do so because she felt that the group should not abide by the coalition agreement, a SP who gives his word, has given his word, but because it was not bearable for her. That's totally special, because the alderman who was responsible for the execution was from the SP. So it wasn't even about the lack of trust. It shows how difficult the Participation Law and Participation Jobs are in general for the SP. I also understand that you have come up with this proposal. I also understand that we were told by the FNV this morning that there needs to be more control. So I am not surprised that you have the support of that. But I am surprised that you have the support of the ABU. I will not speak too harshly, if only because the President has once again stressed in our direction that we should be courteous. We should not only be in touch with each other, but also with the people who are not here. But every time there is a problem or an alleged error in the broadcasting industry, the ABU says: no more regulation; we can solve it ourselves, we can do it ourselves. And now suddenly I would almost say: when it comes to their competitors, they say: yes, you have to do more regulation; we support Mrs Karabulut's proposal. I think that is special and I call on Mrs Karabulut, or rather: her successors and, of course, those of other parties who count themselves to the left to save this letter properly, should you wish to have another debate on excesses in temporary work in the future. Because then one must be consistent. The fact that Cedris is critical is something to which I would ask a response from you. And yes, it has been said: even in 2017, there were letters and texts from Cedris, the VNG and Divosa that are very similar to today's, but your proposal is also very similar to the 2017 proposal. Even more so, it's the second term of that. A number of spokesmen have been exchanged here, so I would also like you to comment on Cedris' criticism here and now, which also indicates that we want to be able to deliver tailor-made work. I cannot say this as eloquencely as Mrs Sent just did, but she did mention those points. The VNG and Divosa are also critical. I do not entirely agree with Mr Kox. I have more of Mr.Van Gurp's line that if you refer to 2017, you shouldn't come up with a whole report. In fact, VNG and Divosa say that the measure taken here is not proportionate. They literally say: 355 municipalities, eleven examples from seven municipalities, is a very small percentage, so not proportional. They also ask questions about feasibility. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Karabulut to explain this point as well. A slight point of criticism, not so much on you specifically but on your cluppie, the SP, because I have seen really better work in the past, apart from the fact that I often disagreed with the content of it, than the report made by the SP to support your story. I didn't think the eleven examples were all equally strong. SP, this could be better, especially in view of the fact that I know how difficult this Participation Act is for you. I think it was also Mr Van Gurp who said that the FNV should have started with: 'I am not quoting you literally now, Mr Van Gurp 'it is gossip work that the SP has done, but we have provided a good report'. I therefore have a question for the Minister immediately, because I do not know whether the Minister knows the FNV's December 2020 report on re-integration and volunteering displacement, but that is, in my view, a better basis for the criticisms made by the SP than the SP report on those criticisms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u63	For the record, Mrs Karabulut is not defending this bill on behalf of the SP but on behalf of the House of Representatives. This is a bill passed by the House of Representatives that all parties in the House of Representatives have now complied with, whether they voted for it or against it. My question to Mr Van der Burg is different. If you criticize a party's investigation, I would say without obligation, why do I not hear Mr Van der Burg say: 'Well, I would also like to know from the Minister what he has done in the last three years to get data on the table, and I would also like to know from the VNG as a representative of all the municipalities what it has done to put the data on the table?' Surely it is obvious that these two are significantly better able than any political party to do so? I know the budgets of the scientific offices of political parties, but there is not much you can do about that. So it is good if you criticize research done by a political party, but then you should also say to the minister and to the VNG: 'And now on the table with your data'. Because we all agree that if we had that data, we could have a better debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u64	On the first point, of course, you are right. Mrs Karabulut is not here on behalf of the SP, but as representative of the overneighbors who voted in favour of this law by a majority. However, after we discussed this in the first term, we asked the representative of the House of Representatives in this Chamber: "Come with a support," and the representative of the House of Representatives, among other things, laid down a story of the SP, in support of which we had asked for it. But you're right, I should be more critical of you as a representative of the SP than of Mrs Karabulut and I know how influential you are in your club, so come on, next time it'll have to be something more oppositional...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u65	Then I would like to get the answer from Mr Van der Burg to the question to VNG and government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u66	...on Part Two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u67	If you make the call to the Minister and to the VNG: 'Come up with that information, you are the only ones who can really deliver it, it has turned out, that is also a big problem for this Chamber that we don't have that information', who knows, we will soon be getting information from the VNG in return. This is what we know, we ask for the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u68	With regard to the government, I only partially agree with you. This is because it is decentralised. That means that they are no longer talking about it, and criticism of me is too often that in The Hague we decentralise things to the municipalities. Then there is an incident in one of the 355 municipalities in the meantime, in my opinion, 352 municipalities. And then the whole House of Representatives in particular is going to have debates on that, while I think: no, my friends, you have it decentralised; we have it decentralised, so you have to have debates in Vlagtwedde, Heerlen or Schin op Geul and no longer in The Hague. So in part I agree with you, comma...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u69	A little long, Mr. Van der Burg. Can you make a point of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u70	It was also in my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u71	Oh, then your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u72	Anyway, I'll shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr Van den Burg's reasoning is right. It's decentralised, so the government can say we're not doing anything about it anymore. But it's not an obligation to do anything about it anymore. This means that the organization representing the 255 municipalities can be asked even more to provide the data, because then you have the data. If you don't have them, they're nowhere. But that means that it is not kept up to date, and that means that a mandatory ban in the law that we have adopted together has become an empty ban. Can't we all want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u74	Finally, Mr. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u75	I also asked the cabinet to respond to the FNV story, irrespective of the fact that it is decentralised. I have already asked Mr Koolmees to say something about this. There are a few things going on in the municipalities. One. Thou shalt establish, thou shalt prove. In this case, therefore, this is the initiator and not the UNG, because the UNG is decentralised. It is then said by the initiator that it is not going well. Then prove it. The VNG doesn't have to prove that she's doing her job well. It's just that whoever's suing proves the charge and not that the defendant proves his innocence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u76	I'm sure I'll put your speaking time back on. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. In addition, I believe that the VNG has a solid point with the argument of proportionality. Something is being added to a law that everyone, including Mr Kox, says in today's debate that the equipment is already in place. That is also what the Council of State says, but in the debate Mr Kox also says it. He says that displacement is already forbidden. This means that at the moment, if it is right, there is already a substantive review by municipalities. At the moment that municipalities create the job or.q. has a substantive review already taken place: can this be done within the law, yes or no? If there is one group of people who are bound by the law, it is the people who are called that, the aldermen. In that sense, I think that this law adds less, because it is already forbidden and aldermen and civil servants are already supposed to do that review. In this sense, I agree with the questions put by the Council of State, among other things. So far in the first term, Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear the reaction of Mrs Karabulut and the Minister, especially the criticism from the FNV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. I call Mrs Stienen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations also to Mrs Sent on behalf of the D66 Group. I had given it to her somewhere that she had had her birthday on March 8th, International Women's Day, but maybe two days of partying is nice too. Mr. Chairman. In the first term of the examination of this law in March 2018, the initiator received compliments from this Chamber on the submission of this initiative proposal. Now, three years later, I would add that at least the initiator has kept on the agenda the importance of combating repression in the labour market. At least that's already a profit. Just as my predecessor Paul Schnabel emphasised in his contribution in the first term, I would like to reiterate that the D66 Group still supports the objective of the present legislative proposal. Labour market displacement is not desirable. My group also wants municipalities to do their utmost to help people with benefits to get a real, paid job and to do so without displacement. However, my group believes that it is up to the municipalities to do so in a way that suits local conditions: tailor-made work. Mr. Chairman. The first deadline for this debate took place on 6 March 2018. At the end of the first term, Mrs Karabulut asked this Chamber to uphold the bill in order to be able to carry out further research in support of the need for the displacement test. This investigation has now taken place and that is why we are now meeting for the second term. The questions we need to answer together today are: has the follow-up study given us new insights on the need for this initiative legislative proposal? And is this proposal feasible? Mr. Chairman. In his contribution, my predecessor Paul Schnabel expressed doubts about the feasibility and effectiveness of the present initiative proposal. He also stated that the D66 group at the time had concerns about the resources which the initiator would like to use for this purpose. The current D66 Group also shares these concerns. On behalf of my group, therefore, I would like to ask the initiator and the Minister a few more questions. Mr. Chairman. In two places in the Participation Act it is stipulated that displacement should not take place through the use of policy instruments. This concerns specifically Article 9 (1) (c) of the Participation Act, which deals with unremunerated socially useful activities. And Article 10a (2) of the Participation Act on Participation Places. Both Articles provide as a condition that work carried out in return and participation places does not lead to labour market displacement. My group cannot get figures and evidence from the recent reports of the SP and the FNV that these articles are insufficiently applied by the 350+ municipalities in the Netherlands. We would like to hear from the initiator how she reads this. My group also has a question for the Minister. The Participation Act gives scope through Article 8b and Article 83 municipalities to pursue their own policies to combat displacement. My group would like to hear from the Minister whether he can give examples of how this is happening. That does not have to be validated scientific research, but more than one example. Mr. Chairman. We have questions about the desirability of the displacement test. My group notes that during the discussion of the present legislative proposal, concerns have always been expressed about the quantitative underpinning of the concerns about repression. My group reads from some of the eleven examples in the SP report that a number of municipalities, such as Leiden, would consider the displacement test to be counterproductive. Nor can my group draw a general conclusion from the SP report with eleven examples or the FNV report that seems to be based on incidents, however worrying, than on an actual quantitative analysis of long-term trends. I'd like a response from the initiator. But let's stay positive. In the event that this bill is adopted, how could it be ensured in the implementation of this bill that municipalities will act on relevant data and evidence? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to our concerns about feasibility. If this proposal is adopted, the displacement test will have to be developed in an AMvB. What timetable does the initiator provide for this? My group is unable to see the consequences in the implementation of the present legislative proposal due to the lack of an execution test. We provide for additional administrative and financial burdens for municipalities. In addition, our group's assessment is that the initiative law could stand in the way of the existing policy space that municipalities have to guide people to the labour market. Other colleagues have already mentioned this. This could deteriorate the position of this group of people. The initiator did not opt for an execution test, while the criticism in the Lower House and also here in the Upper Chamber focused on the feasibility. Can the initiator indicate why she did not choose to do so? Does it see any possibility of doing so? Can it indicate the administrative and financial implications of the displacement test for the municipalities? It has already been mentioned: the VNG has once again expressed concerns about the fact that this law does not add anything to the current legislation. They say that this law is practically impossible, and they see a risk that it will make meaningful pathways impossible for people in vulnerable positions in the labour market. My group would like to hear a response from the initiator and the Minister on the concerns of the UNG. What hardness clause could be included in an AMvB in order to prevent these unintended negative effects and to remove concerns? Mr President, I will conclude. There is no doubt for the D66 Group that it would be undesirable for unpaid labour to replace it. Labour market displacement needs to be countered as much as possible. The question remains whether this initiative law actually contributes to this and is feasible, or whether it misses the goal. We look forward to the answers of the initiator and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. Then, on request, I shall suspend the sitting for a moment, until 10.50 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u81	I would like to give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr. Chairman. Last week we received an updated advice from VNG and Divosa on this bill. In the opinion of the UNG, the current legal instruments in the Participation Act provide sufficient tools to tackle repression. That is also the view of the Council of State. An additional law to enforce repression does not add anything. It is up to municipalities to implement this law correctly. That's their legal job. Then I thought: good luck, Mrs Karabulut, with this opinion. Because, of course, it is a far-reaching advice. It has been updated: there was also a negative opinion three years ago and now it remains. Mr. Chairman. According to the VNG, the bill is practically impossible and imposes a huge bureaucratic burden. There is a risk that meaningful pathways for vulnerable target groups will become impossible. As a result, the legislative proposal does not contribute to helping vulnerable target groups, but rather ensures that people are not helped by municipalities. The UNG therefore strongly calls for the initiative proposal to be rejected. There are also a number of recommendations from the Borstlap Committee. There is a link between this bill and this committee's proposals. In November, the government published a paper on how to deal with it. This will probably play an important role in the coming months, during the formation of the government. The Borstlap Committee, the Regulatory Committee, examined the functioning of the labour market in the broadest sense of the word and looked, among other things, at the social security system. In short, the Borstlap Committee and other lectures, including the Scientific Council for Government Policy, advise to create additional jobs for people who are remote from the labour market. That call is also reflected in various election programs. Part of the discussion about the basic job is how you deal with displacement. People with a distance from the labour market often have the trouble of not being able to earn back their salary, often on or around the legal minimum, for their boss. Through labour costs subsidies, Participation Law and Pay Dispensation, employers are allowed to pay people below the statutory minimum wage, but with an additional benefit this problem is solved. Such forms of subsidised work are at risk of displacement. In that light, it's not weird that the First Chamber is handling the bill today, but it's weird that it's happening at this time around the election. Perhaps it would be useful, in the light of the committee's advice, to look at it again to see if you can match it. Last week we also received a letter from Cedris, the association for an inclusive labour market. Cedris believes it is important not to set new thresholds for guiding people with a great distance from the labour market to work. The chances of a paid job are already very small for this group anyway. Therefore, when assessing this bill, it is also called upon to consider whether the proposed measures contribute to achieving equal opportunities in paid employment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I did my own research in the constituency. You know that the OSF is a platform of regional and local parties. These local parties occupy 30% of the council seats in the Netherlands. You could say that it is the largest political movement in the Netherlands. In particular, municipalities are confronted with the feasibility of this law. Support for this bill is also not recommended from the municipalities. The SP has investigated eleven examples in seven different municipalities. I've done a little research on three municipalities. In all three municipalities I am advised not to accept this proposal, because it has already been dealt with. In particular, it is regulated by the Pecuniary Regulation, but it is also laid down in the Reintegration Regulation. The municipalities are therefore indeed doing their work on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr. Chairman. Honestly, Mrs. Karabulut is tenacious and a perseverant. If we consider that the present law was submitted by her in October 2015 and we have held the first deadline for the treatment on March 6, 2018, then the date of settlement, March 9, 2021, is a sample of perseverance. But there is also a problem that this law carries with it, because apparently we have been able to get out of our way for the past six years without this displacement test and all these years were needed to reach a final judgment. Of course, this long process also has an advantage, because I think that the third member of the government is now going to give an opinion on this initiative. First there was Mrs Klijnsma, then Mrs Van Ark and today Mrs Karabulut brought a minister: Mr Koolmees. I think Mr Koolmees just said: then it will be the Prime Minister. Or did he say, "I'm gonna be Prime Minister"? Mr. Chairman. In 2018, the doubts in this Chamber during the course of the treatment became so great that the applicant of the law decided to first conduct an additional investigation into the extent of displacement through the Participation Act. She then asked to wait for the resumption of treatment until after the evaluation of the Participation Act. When this did not provide any useful information for this law, an investigation was announced by the FNV. That report is there, but frankly, it's not helping. There are long lists of voluntary work which fill in the report nicely, but the start and the explanation is not really convincing to my group. In fact, I read on page 12 of the report: "That is why the FNV supports the legislative proposal of MP Karabulut so that the government comes to legislation "repressing," which does justice to redundant workers and beneficiaries of benefits." This does not seem to me to be an example of independent research that can guarantee the quantitative basis of the bill. For my group, therefore, there is still no convincing need for this law. I am particularly interested today in the opinion of the Minister, who has undoubtedly also taken note of the FNV study and the SP responses from various municipalities. Because the aforementioned Secretary of State Klijnsma strongly discouraged this bill at the time, because it makes it more difficult to lead people back to the labour market, by blocking effective reintegration instruments in whole or in part. In the meantime, we have a new government in 2017, as everyone here probably knows. In the first term, I asked Secretary of State Van Ark what her opinion was. I didn't understand that she had a different opinion. Now the new government is already decommissioning again. What is the verdict of this outgoing minister? Mr. Chairman. In the first term, my group asked a whole series of questions which were not really answered at the time. I could repeat them for a while. Is it now a matter of preventing employers from making improper use of this Participation Act? Or is it about accepting the role of municipalities that displacement too easily? Or are they workers who lose their jobs as a result of the use of benefit recipients? Or is it about helping beneficiaries get started quickly? The most difficult thing in this law is that the prospect of real work becomes more problematic for people in a benefit position. After all, the use of this law is that it seems that they should be mainly used to work which is normally not paid. That means that we are only looking for work that no one else can find, or that no one wants, or that no one wants to pay for? Then helping this displacement test is my question. Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, curious about Mrs Karabulut's response, but also about the Minister's response to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Van Pareren on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. The Participation Act is a very nice law. That law also has the real intention of getting it right with the people who are weak in our society. It is also a law that supported the highly appreciated Jetta Klijnsma with verve at the time. We've heard her name before today, but I wanted to say it again. It is also a law that meant for many municipalities that they had to do their own work, to reinvent the wheel. I just heard there are about 355 municipalities. At that time it was still there against the 400; it goes down quickly. But every municipality tries to reinvent the wheel. It is therefore logical that the right wheel has not always been invented, which is why there are still clamps and hooks attached to this law. That is why it is also a very good initiative by Mrs Karabulut, who, as the previous speaker said, is persistent in her attempt to ensure that the less fortunate in our society gets well in that society. It's very nice that she's been working on that. So this approach certainly appeals to us. Earlier today I heard from Mr Van Kesteren about the fine initiative of SP and CDA I already knew how to get the social workshops back to work in full and in particular to get more of them. That's very nice. But we also see several comments on the whole law thing. For example, SEO Economic Research says that the application of criteria has the risk that healthy competition, additional labour and effective reintegration projects can also be limited at some point, thus sacrificing their social benefits to the social costs of potential displacement effects. The CPB once wrote that you cannot ignore the misconception that there is a fixed amount of work. It's a misconception, there's no fixed amount of work. They also indicate that the concept of displacement is hardly present or not present and that it does not necessarily have to be negative. There's so much writing. The Social and Cultural Planning Office is talking about it and I heard the VNG coming by today. It says: we see that municipalities are doing very well, although the municipalities are critical and can do even better. We hear Cedris and Divosa. So there are many who have gained experience in recent years and say: of course, improvements need to be made, but is this really what we are waiting for? The letter sent to us by VNO-NCW, written miraculously together with AWVN and SMEs-Netherlands, has been cited today. I have to say: how that works is very efficient. It was good to read that their opinion is there: is this really something that will help the employers in the process and is there space around the test placements of those people in the companies or should you take them right away? Then you're in a friction. So give it a chance to explore with each other how best to do this. There is certainly a will and there is already a cooperation in it, but it is a matter that has a lot of hooks and eyes. That is why it is good to hear the different opinions of the different parties today. Well, that's what we've done. Just a few more questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u87	Do you watch the clock, Mr. Van Pareren? Your remaining speaking time is now at zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u88	I'll finish with a few brief questions, Mr. Chairman. It also says 'President', so it is a coincidence that I mention your position. How big is the group that's being repressed? How has that been studied? Who investigated it? Are there not enough incentives for municipalities to cope with displacement and control? Mr. Chairman. That concludes the Nanninga Group's contribution. Thanks for the extra time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Finally, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we warmly congratulate the initiator, Mrs Karabulut, on this initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I will keep my contribution brief and I would like to confine myself to a few key points. This is the second time that this initiative law has been dealt with, although the first time it has been dealt with is already a few years behind us. A follow-up of the treatment has been held until the final evaluation of the Participation Act by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. This evaluation does not provide sufficient information on the occurrence of displacement, also according to Mrs Karabulut. Therefore, a study by the FNV in this area has been awaited. My group very much agrees with Mrs Karabulut that displacement, when it occurs, is a serious problem. There is no difference of opinion between us. In the pieces we read some poignant examples. Mr. Chairman. But that is precisely why the Participation Act gives the municipalities the opportunity to intervene in the event of displacement. My group has asked for a justification of the proportionality of the proposed law. Is the situation around displacement so serious that it is desirable to put a national heading on municipal labour market and welfare policies in the form of a displacement test? In other words, is the situation so serious that the government must undermine the freedom of the municipalities by imposing this instrument on them? Mr. Chairman. For the time being, my group has not seen sufficient grounds for this support either in the evaluation or in the FNV study. Examples are also widely used in the FNV study, due to the lack of statistics. The scale of the problem of displacement remains unclear. Can the initiator say again why she believes that a legal test is indispensable? I would also like to hear his views on this bill from the Minister. He is now the third ruler to be allowed to shine his or her light on this matter. In its first-term contribution, the minister's predecessor referred to the legislative proposal as non-proportional, but pointed to the need to address the problem of repression. Does the Minister endorse these words from his predecessor? How does he propose to address the problem under current legislation? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two more comments. The first concerns the definition and scope of the concept of repression. In order to carry out a possible displacement test, it will have to be clear what is and is not covered by this concept. There is no general consensus on the scope of this concept. From the FNV report I understand that the authors of this report do not consider the concept of "displacement" as used by the government to be sufficient. They distill the displacement concept of the government from a few letters from former Secretary of State Klijnsma. The authors' criticism focuses in particular on the one-year period for job vacancies to determine whether there has been displacement. Does Mrs Karabulut share this criticism from the authors of the report? The second point, which relates to this, is the question of the feasibility of this test. We foresee that the five principles which need to be further developed in an AMvB will lead to a large bureaucracy in the municipality. A possible ambiguity which may arise around the application of the concept of "displacement" will make it difficult for municipalities to check in advance with which company in what way business can be done. Why would such a test from above be more effective than a careful consideration when the municipality makes agreements with a company, taking into account the interests of the employees and the beneficiaries? My group wonders whether it is not more effective when municipalities at local level make agreements with parties on concrete measures against repression, such as Cedris and the VNG, for example. Please respond to the above questions. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that my group has many questions on this subject. I therefore await with interest the reply of Mrs Karabulut and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-3.u92	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, pending the Minister of Justice and Security.
