ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u1	The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, 35925-XIV: Establishment of the budget statements of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Animal Health Fund for 2022. I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. May I once again ask Members to take some rest in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u3	No "order!"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u4	Yeah, that's the next step. I did that last week. Mr. Crone and Mr. Otten, we'd like to start the debate, if it's all right with you. Group consultations and consultations between political groups may therefore take place in the hall. But it's about time. I am also looking on the left, at Mrs Vos and Mr Schalk. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kluit. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first debate I had in this Chamber was with this Minister on the sixth action programme for the Nitrates Directive. Today, we are probably having the last debate of this minister, as Minister of LNV, on the day after the seventh action programme in Europe has been launched. The reason given by the European Union was: it is too little, too late. It hurts me a bit to say it, but "too little, too late" is the result, or the summary, of the nature and environmental policy of three Cabinets-Rutte. The brand new coalition agreement is seen by benevolent readers as a declaration of intent to break that course, but unfortunately this is not being started in the LNV budget for next year. Unfortunately, it is not under discussion today either. With this budget, we can actually write 2022 off for structural improvements of nature. In itself, a year's delay in human life is just as important, and in 2023, major steps in reducing nitrogen are just as important. But Bruno Latour argued a few years ago: parliamentary systems should not only concern the people in society. Animals, plants and ecosystems have the same right not to be threatened by government policies or lack of policies. If we then look at the kalemies on the Veluwe, then since the PAS-pronunciation of two years ago we have not only been two years, but a few generations further. On the Veluwe every generation of birds has it heavier, because they have weaker bones, weaker eggshells, and therefore more trouble to reproduce themselves. The same applies to nature quality as a whole, to the most vulnerable species and nature reserves in the Netherlands. Here too, the common thread is the worrying state of conservation. And that's not only annoying for the cabbage tits, but it's also annoying for the people. I'll come back to that later. So while we congratulate each other on the fine words in the coalition agreement, many species are still under pressure outside nature. That is the reality that we must turn around. As far as my group is concerned, we really have no time to waste. My group was therefore looking for action in this budget. So the essence of our input is the question: how can we recover valuable time for months to come, and how can we do so in a way that does justice to the new parliamentary culture that is so much sought after? For this reason, among other reasons, my group, together with the PvdA Group, in the LNV Committee, has called for this budget to be dealt with after the recess. Then, as the benevolent readers we are, we can involve the coalition's plans extensively in this budget and our assessment of it. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to convince most of our committee members of this. There's nothing the Minister can do about that. This minister must defend the budget, because it is a poor budget, and the new plans belong to the new minister. Personally, I am very pleased that this gives us the opportunity to say goodbye in person in this Chamber of this Minister, the Minister for circular agriculture. We appreciate the way in which the Minister has conducted the debate with us with an open vision. She was always clear about where she stands and where the boundaries she sets are. We also appreciate the introduction and work that it does for circular agriculture, because that is really the transformation that is needed in the agricultural sector. It started under the leadership of this minister. As far as we are concerned, this committee meeting was not a very good experience in terms of content and innovation in relations between us. We are now forced to hold a debate on a poor budget, which, in our view, calls for very critical treatment, because that is why the state of nature calls for it. And that while there is a promising outline for the future, namely the coalition agreement. So that's where it sheds. GroenLinks and the PvdA have long been concerned about farmers, nature and the rule of law. That is why we would like to move forward on this dossier and that in the direction of the new cabinet. So why has the cabinet not immediately embraced the amendment by GroenLinks and PvdA for an agricultural fund, I ask the Minister? Its successor would have had billions of euros at its disposal as of 1 January and could immediately pursue the plans of the new coalition. Then the cabinet had also shown that the new cabinet is working on an open administrative culture in which opposition and coalition work fruitfully together on the major challenges, stimulating each other and giving each other success. I would like a reflection from the Minister on this line of thinking. Now that that has not happened, I ask: when can this Chamber realistically discuss with the new cabinet what the many billions in the coalition agreement for nature and farmers have in store? I would like to hear a deadline on which the Minister considers this realistic. The firm reaction to our procedural proposal has created concern that the words of the coalition agreement on parliamentary cooperation are mostly fine words, but it is actually intended that the benevolent opposition should be stamped with the cross. That would be a real shame. Can the Minister, who himself has been closely involved in the conclusion of this coalition agreement, give some explanation? How does the new cabinet intend to do better in the future? Would the cabinet be open to an open policy process, including debate in this Chamber and an open conversation with the other side about the transition that is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u6	It's really going too far now. I think you're now trying to talk to this minister of this cabinet about what she's going to do. We don't know if the minister's coming back or what portfolio she'd get. We still don't know when the new cabinet will arrive. You're trying to get her statements about the future of the new cabinet. You can't, Mrs. Kluit. That cabinet isn't here yet. Mr President, I think you should intervene when a minister gets a question about something that does not concern that minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u7	Mrs. Kluit, you heard me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u8	I believe that our group differs in principle from the VVD on the need to accelerate policy in the field of nature. We will not start new with the new cabinet. The coalition is starting new, but the problems in the outside world are very urgent and very topical and we would like to see progress in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u9	Mrs. Jorrits...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u10	But that wasn't... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. That is not the question I asked Mrs Kluit. If the omens don't deceive us, we might have a new cabinet next month. Well, then it's weird that you're asking this today, isn't it? It is not that within a month nature will deteriorate much worse in your, and mine, eyes compared to this month. I say to you: I think it is inappropriate that Mrs Kluit should be speaking through you, President-in-Office of the Council, to ask a minister from this cabinet questions that really concern the minister of a new cabinet. Surely this minister can't make a statement about the process in which she is involved? She's not about that, is she?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u11	This is precisely why my group has proposed that this budget be postponed until there is a new minister. But among other things the VVD Group did not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u12	This budget was made by this cabinet. This cabinet is responsible for this. That just needs to be handled next month or as much longer as it takes. I don't know; I hope it goes fast. I was hoping it would have been done a long time ago. Moreover, I believe that GroenLinks has somehow been somewhat involved in this. Maybe it could have been sooner. Anyway, as it were, we're gonna have to wait for now. The new cabinet comes with new policies and not a sitting cabinet that has already passed a budget through the House of Representatives, which your group has just voted in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u13	My group did not vote in favour, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u14	Did I see that your group voted against a budget? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u15	You didn't see it, but we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u16	Sometimes I think that it is a pity that a budget is accepted, but that has different consequences than what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u17	Mrs Kluit, I propose that you continue your speech, taking into account Mrs Jorritsma's appeal. Of course, you are talking about your questions and the Minister's answers, but this is an important indication. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u18	I do not agree with that, so I am going to continue my speech as I set it up. Let's see where I left off. So the question is: would the cabinet, the new cabinet, be open to an open policy process? Or let me rephrase it to meet Mrs Jorritsma. What could be the added value of an open process in which opposition and coalition engage in dialogue at the front of policy-making and not at the back? We believe that this is important, especially in the areas where major transitions are at stake that demand commitment from several Cabinets. I think we should all note that, whether it is about the transition in agriculture, the transition in the rural area or the energy transition, these transitions exceed a period of four years and that it is a good thing that there is broad support for them. I'd like a response. Mr President, back to the current budget. Unfortunately, this does not deliver enough for nature in 2022. It also falls short for farmers and promoters of housing projects and therefore for society as a whole. To begin with: look at the housing problem of many Dutch people. This budget does not provide sufficient basis for a firm reduction in nitrogen depositions and is therefore also inadequate for the construction of sufficient housing. As a result, many people will be stuck unnecessarily in undesirable housing situations in 2022. A second example is that this budget fails to keep Schiphol, the Rutte I-III prestige project, operational at the desired level. The Minister knows that I personally do not find it a problem if the flights of Schiphol Airport will be restricted, but we do find it a problem that the Cabinet refuses to protect nature by taking the necessary measures relating to the size of Schiphol Airport and granting a nature permit which is in line with our current law and thus abolishing the existing legal vacuum for nature and therefore also for farmers and citizens. I would like a response to the question of when the Schiphol cabinet would like to have put Schiphol back under a nature permit. Can the Minister address in particular the question of how the cabinet sees its role in relation to the protection of the rule of law? Because I read a lot about the protection of Schiphol and the rights of Schiphol, but what about those of residents and nature? To achieve the objectives of the law nitrogen reduction and nature restoration and those of the Natural Pact, acceleration is inevitable. In fact, the pace of the Natural Pact must even double if the government is to achieve these goals. Where are the instruments to achieve these goals, e.g. expropriation or the right of first purchase for municipalities? Some form of green policy seems really indispensable in solving nature's problems. Can the Minister answer that? Is it prepared to develop expropriation and, in particular, the right of first sale by municipalities, so that this can be involved in the Rural Area Programme? And where is the money in 2022 to tackle these problems swiftly? The same applies to the Food and Consumer Protection Authority. In recent years, the signals have accumulated that this organisation is overburdened, that employees are threatened and that they continue to go after crime due to inadequate resources. Here again, a favourable reading of the coalition agreement shows that it is going to be invested in it. There is a considerable investment, but the inevitable question arises as to why we are not starting this next year. Investment is being made in the NVWA, but this is mainly compensation for personnel costs. I see someone standing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u19	That is Mr Berkhout and I give him the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u20	Through you, I would like to ask Mrs Kluit the following. I hear talk of expropriation. Does this also mean forced expropriation of farms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u21	Yes. In order to make the transition to the rural area cost-effective and as soon as possible, so that farmers have clarity as quickly as possible, it is important that very heavy peak loaders can be bought out quickly, so that significantly more farmers can remain farmers than if we as a society are waiting for the peak chargers who voluntarily choose the time to switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u22	Do you not think that the legal protection of farmers is more important than the government's forced expropriation of private property?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u23	I do not think that this is such a black and white matter, because if those peak taxers are not forced to expropriate, that means that legal certainty for all the other farmers in the area who also tax a Natura 2000 site becomes much more uncertain. So I think you should be for expropriation, also forced expropriation, if you want to improve the legal certainty of farmers in a transition that must take place quickly. I would like to say, however, that it is absolutely preferable to do this on a voluntary basis and in good conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u24	Please continue your speech. Oh, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u25	I have a question for Mr Berkhout. Why does he think there is no legal certainty in expropriation? Because it's a procedure...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u26	Mr. Karakus, you can't interrupt Mr. Berkhout right now. We can do that later, because he's the next speaker. So if you have any patience, you can have a debate with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u27	Then I've already asked my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u28	Then he can think about it. Mrs Kluit, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u29	With your permission, we're going back to NVWA. Yet another year has been waiting; we do not think that is possible. So how is the Minister going to ensure that growth? Is the Minister prepared to make a commitment to come forward with a plan for reinforcement within three months? Then the landscape elements. Before the end of the year, the Minister would inform us about the significant plans for landscape elements. I hear nice noises about that, but can the Minister say anything about that? What are the current plans and where do we stand with them? Mr. Chairman. I started this speech with the derogation, and I'm gonna end it with that too. Why did the Minister submit a plan that didn't show the goals? Now there is money left on this budget. Was the Minister surprised that the European Union has put the plan on hold? Or was the belief in the cabinet really that the European Union would allow this by way of derogation from its own rules because of any hopeful signals about a missionary cabinet? The result is that 2022 will also be a lost year for the farmers concerned. That can't be the desired result, can it? Farmers constantly ask for one thing: predictability and clarity and now beaches that follow in December for the year that follows. Mr. Chairman. In 2006 the American singer JoJo scored a hit with the song Too little, too late. She sings: "You say the words, but it doesn't feel right." In the coalition agreement, I read a lot of fine and promising words, but my group has been waiting a long time for that. We would have liked to have seen this before 2022. That's why it doesn't feel right here. We therefore have great doubts about voting in favour of this budget, because we believe that the restoration of nature cannot allow another year's delay. But I'm going to quietly listen to the Minister's response. I very much hope that the coalition parties will succeed in strengthening the fine words of the coalition agreement on natural development and that they will have an impact on nature and environmental policy with new and visible momentum, not in a year's time, but from day one. Then the new coalition will always be able to talk to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u30	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Mr Berkhout has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u31	Mr. Chairman. The agricultural budget: it is not normally a spectacle, but the outgoing cabinet does make it very furious. For example, this budget does not exclude forced expropriation of farms because of nitrogen rules. In my group's view, this must be ruled out. Firstly, we believe that the nitrogen crisis which the government thinks it is seeing is far from a crisis. In Germany, the heath, with an identical nitrogen deposition as here, is good for it, according to the European Commission. In the German coalition agreement one must search with a magnifying glass in order to be able to see the word "Nuclear" in a specific sentence. Former PvdA Minister Plasterk recently also said nice things about nitrogen, namely in De Telegraaf. I quote: "It is good to start with a map of the Netherlands and neighbouring countries on which the nitrogen surplus with red color is visible, and the areas without surplus green. What then stands out is that the border between green and red is precisely the border between the Netherlands and Germany. You can easily recognize the contours of Twente and the Achterhoek. The so-called nitrogen crisis only exists in the Netherlands!"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u32	I was curious to see if Mr Berkhout read the nature report that was in the papers of the First Chamber last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u33	I didn't spell it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u34	Because it shows annually what the state of nature is in the Netherlands. It made it very clear that there is a trend towards a worrying conservation state, that the number of species in the Netherlands is declining and that the number of vulnerable species is already at all, and that nature in the Netherlands is very under pressure. So I wonder what Mr Berkhout means by an imaginary nitrogen crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u35	I very much agree that the state of nature in the Netherlands leaves something to be desired. However, my group does not think that this is mainly due to nitrogen emissions or nitrogen deposition. The standards in the Netherlands are much higher than in the neighbouring countries. That is why it is also a bigger problem here. There are other ways of protecting nature than throwing everything on the nitrogen file.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u36	One final question, Mr. Chairman. Can Mr Berkhout indicate where he sees the problems in nature? He just made a plea against forced expropriation. If, for example, Mr Berkhout thinks that nature should be made up of larger contiguous areas, then I also see a problem with the plea he has just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u37	Thank you for this question, I say to Mrs Kluit. My group is not in favour of forced expropriation anyway. Look, voluntary expropriation or buying up at a very good price, for example if there is no successor for the company, which I will come back to later in my speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u38	Why don't we wait for that and give you a chance to finish your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u39	Mr President, I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u40	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u41	We are indeed concerned with the word "forced" within expropriation. We cannot support the forced, public, expropriation of private property.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u42	Although I have not been registered as a speaker, Mrs Jorritsma has just reported to the interrupting microphone. That was an interesting speech by Mr Berkhout on those nitrogen cards. We have often mentioned this in the past. The problem is above all an administrative problem, which some people say also because of the stamp areas. The Natura 2000 sites are all very small areas. Even though there would be no molecule of nitrogen, it can't be robust enough. But now I see that new stamps have been added. Does Mr Berkhout still mention this in his speech? How does he look at that? That is what our group is looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u43	Perhaps we should let Mr Berkhout finish his speech, then we will find out. Then Mr Karakus can also ask his question. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u44	I thank Mr Otten for his question. I am not making this argument here to go very deeply into the technical side of the nitrogen dossier. I will continue my speech. Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck to quoting Mr Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u45	I would like to put a question to Mr Berkhout about forced expropriation. At the moment there are 16,000 farms for sale. Every day six to seven farmers stop. They do not actually do so voluntarily, but forced by market conditions. Doesn't he also think that in many cases there is forced sales and that you should involve them in the idea that we do not want forced expropriation? There is currently an involuntary expropriation without it being called "expropriation" in the literal sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u46	Thank you, Mr. Koffeman, for this enlightening question, because that's right. We are talking sec about government coercion. When I talk about forced expropriation, I am not talking about market conditions that cause compulsion, but purely about the government which is forced to expropriate private property. I will come back to that later. I agree with you that there are many farms where there is no follow-up. As soon as there's volunteering in play...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u47	But now we are going to anticipate again... I think you said that you will come back to these expropriations in detail, so my proposal is again: shall we wait and see? Then Mr. Koffeman can see if the answer to his question might be in there. Go ahead, Mr. Berkhout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u48	Mr. Chairman. Secondly, let there be no misunderstanding: my group is not of the opinion that the move towards more sustainable farms is wrong, quite the contrary. But we need to see things in proportion and put the time factor at the centre. Give the farmer time and means to make it more sustainable and give him a fair price when buying up voluntarily, for example in companies without succession. For Mr Koffeman, I would like to add: or, for example, in the case of companies where they want to throw down the axe because of any other circumstances. The amount of nitrogen emitted by agriculture has almost halved since 1990 according to the RIVM emissions registration. Even the Minister admitted in a committee debate that the nitrogen deposition has been falling for years. Then why all this panic, I ask her through the chairman. Thirdly, we need to make sure that what is going to happen to the farms which have been forced out of control by the government is what should be the alternative. If the cabinet is forced to expropriate farmers, it will not only have an enormous social and economic impact, but it will also have a profound impact on our landscape. It is not inconceivable that agricultural farms should give way to black plains of solar panels and hundreds of meters of high wind turbines that destroy our environment and our nature. Our Dutch landscape is completely mutilated because we claim to save a few stamps heather. That's inexplicable. We cannot, of course, vote in favour of a budget which does not exclude the forced expropriation of farmers by means of an explanatory nitrogen policy. We assume that the Minister understands this and would like a commitment that forced expropriation of farms is excluded because of nitrogen rules. I'll finish with that, Mr. Chairman. If that is not the case, we shall consider a motion on this point in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. Berkhout. Mr Koffeman has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u50	Mr. Chairman. I suspect that it has not occurred before in parliamentary history that the Minister of Agriculture was told by the farewell of her current term that the new coalition is reserving a sum of 25 billion for reparations, no less than fourteen times the LNV budget as it now stands. Don't get me wrong: these are not reparations to compensate for the problems created by current policies, but reparations for the problems that have arisen under the Ministry of LNV in recent decades, reparations for damages that have arisen largely under the responsibility of a number of existing coalition parties and their representatives in this house. That is something we, as representatives of the people, can seriously charge ourselves with. We are jointly responsible for a marshall plan for animals, nature and environment and climate. We have allowed it to come to this, and it is on us that the hard task is not only to reserve recovery payments, but also to spend them in such a way that recovery will really take place. Mr. Chairman. The problems were not caused by individual farmers. Like animals, nature and the environment, they are victims of a system that virtually no one in the sector can escape: bent through the bank, knacked by cattle feed suppliers, knacked by false promises and the victim of a policy of never enough. When Ger Koopmans and Diederik Samsom formed the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen in 2009, it was immediately clear to those who wanted to see that this was a false representation of things. Emissions of nitrogen could increase if natural measures were taken which would lead to a reduction in nitrogen emissions later on. A theoretical policy reality in which an irresponsible advance was made on the future and which would lead to the hitherto greatest crisis during Mr Rutte's prime ministership, if we can believe him. So if I'm lying, I'm lying on commission. My colleague in the Lower House, Esther Ouwehand, then said to Ger Koopmans: but what if this system doesn't stand by the judge, which it looks like now? Mr Koopmans then said that our entrepreneurs would have benefited for only a few years. Mr. Chairman. This is a model of short-term interests, which so often dominate politics. It is not uncommon for politicians to come to their senses until they have resigned. During his term of office, Minister Veerman didn't want to know about climate problems caused by greenhouse gas from livestock farming, but shortly after his farewell he admitted that the whole system was jammed. We import huge amounts of animal feed, we export huge quantities of meat and dairy and with the mess, 75 billion kilos of manure, we stay put. Anyone who takes some distance, as Cees Veerman did, must admit that the current livestock farming system is an unsustainable system. Does the Minister share the view that current meat and dairy production has assumed unsustainable proportions? And if that is not the case, why are such huge recovery payments reserved under her watchful eye? And if the Minister does agree with me, can she share with us an analysis of how it could have come to this and from where she sees the solution? The 25 billion referred to in the coalition agreement has not yet been allocated. How can we prevent another theoretical policy reality in which the problems are again being extended for us or in which we move the problems from one province to another, in order to lead to unsustainable situations? Low-emission floors were found to be ineffective and air scrubbers did not solve the problems either, to the dismay of farmers who could not cope with the huge investments. Over the next ten years, the number of dairy farmers will decrease by more than 33%, while production will continue to increase under unchanged policies. Cowmunities take over from the agricultural family farm. Every day six to seven farmers stop because they can't stand it anymore. There are political parties that say that forced buy-out is not acceptable to them, but the fact is that for years there has been a forced buy-out of our rural areas, not by expropriation, but by scaling up, which is an attack on the agricultural family farm. This is fed by large players in the banking sector and the supplier market. Those players literally make life impossible for our farmers, under the pretext that they are allies. Mr. Chairman. That raises the question of whether we are not ready for the biggest land consolidation in our history. Two thirds of our country is set up as an agricultural area, not to feed our own people, but to be the second agricultural exporter in the world, without being a substantial part of our gross national product and without the externalities, the negative social effects, being reflected in cost prices. Does the Minister agree with us that in a country where there is a shortage of housing, where there is a nitrogen crisis and where agricultural entrepreneurs are forced to end their business in large numbers, a proactive policy should be pursued to distribute space more logically in our country? Does she agree with us that we cannot continue to maintain monocultures, such as rai grass, cutting maize and grain, which, through the gastrointestinal tract of animals in agriculture, lead to the greatest possible leakage in the cycle and loss of useful calories? And does she agree with us that circular agriculture should be based on closing that leak? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Too many cabinets have looked away from the real problems in nature and rural areas. With huge subsidies, there has been a heavy effort to preserve the grutto, our national bird. But at the same time, the number of breeding pairs has fallen enormously; it is halved to only 30,000. Half of all gruttos worldwide breed in the Netherlands. In that sense, for what we do to our nature, the grutto is the canary in the coal mine. A total of 400 million has already been earmarked for the protection of our meadow birds, but the Minister does not know exactly what measures the money from her ministry, the provinces and the EU is going to take. That is the hard conclusion of the General Court. Farmers hardly opt for real effective measures with the subsidy money, such as increasing groundwater levels and creating so-called plasdras ditches. The Minister does not agree with the conclusion of the General Court, but at the same time admits that suitable habitats have been severely reduced by the intensification of agriculture and that recovery takes a long time. Isn't that the root of the problem? What has the Minister done to stop this intensification of agriculture? After all, this intensification runs counter to our nature. Mr. Chairman. If an industry costs so much in terms of externalities, it yields so little in terms of gross national product and contributes as much to global warming, floods, particulate matter from overcrowded stalls, zoonoses such as Q fever and avian influenza, which jump from animal to human beings, if it brings with it the serious risk of antibiotic resistance and if our cows take care of the hood of the Brazilian rainforest, then surely it is time to turn the bows? Why should we damage the lives and well-being of 600 million animals if we could feed 4 billion more people if we were to abandon the detour of livestock farming with all the negative side effects? There is often talk of the carelessness of farmers, but the practice is that farmers are the victims of a policy that is inconsequential. In the last century, three Cabinets fell over fundamental politics: Drees, Cals/Vondeling and Den Uyl. Despite the fact that developments in rural areas have since accelerated, fundamental policy has become the most hidden subject of the States-General. Does the Minister have an explanation for that? Can the Minister also indicate whether there will be more speed in improving living conditions in intensive livestock farming? Is it true that out of the EUR 25 billion for the nitrogen fund, 7.4 billion is earmarked for the purchase of dairy, poultry and pig farms, and that with this amount at most 30% less animals can be produced in livestock farming? Is the Minister prepared to buy up production rights in order to speed up that process and prevent problems from moving? Mr President, I will conclude. At the end, the minister can do something big for landscape elements in the municipality of Zeewolde, where Meta Facebook wants to create a hyperscale data centre of 166 hectares on fertile agricultural land. For that hyperscale data centre, the techreus has already acquired 80 hectares of agricultural land. It will have a green current consumption of 115 wind turbines of 4 megawatts. That equals a power consumption of 460,000 households. Is the Minister prepared to ask the National Real Estate Company to suspend the sale of land as long as there is no new government vision on the establishment of new data centres? I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Mr Karakus has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u52	Mr. Chairman. The solution to the housing crisis, the climate crisis and the nitrogen crisis is a matter of fair, sustainable and concrete agricultural policy. To keep our planet viable, excessive climate change must be stopped by human action. In order to restore and improve the flora and fauna that our country is rich, action must be taken and in order to realize new buildings there must be significantly less nitrogen deposition. The agricultural sector is not getting away from this either. At the same time, farmers who want to take responsibility also deserve perspective. The PvdA Group knows how complex it is to come up with an integrated approach. The Minister shows courage, but not enough. This is the case, for example, in the area of manure policy. The Minister recognised that a government agreement could not be waited for, and included manure policy in the budget proposal. Nevertheless, the European Commission has rejected the Dutch action plan. This is slowing down again. Mr. Chairman. It happens too often. Take, for example, the Urgenda targets for 2022, which are not going to be met in this way, while time is ticking. Because of the government's missionary status, almost a year has been lost in order to achieve a fair, sustainable and concrete agricultural policy. There are no new plans in this budget proposal. Management measures are not enough. The Minister has often pointed this out, but she constantly points out that the new cabinet must decide on this. That is why this budget proposal is still a year away. In that respect, a number of questions arise. Why has the Minister not made financial preparations in the budget proposal? How does the Minister intend to achieve the catch-up? Are we not late, then, and is the damage caused still to be repaired? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, there is a new coalition agreement, with which the outgoing cabinet will make a start and become missionary again. The plans of the same parties around the housing crisis, nitrogen crisis and climate crisis are to some extent ambitious. For example, the PvdA fraction appreciates bringing the nitrogen targets forward to 2030. That's absolutely necessary. But my group is also critical of the development of these plans, because they are not yet there. In the budget proposal, the Minister chooses to continue the existing additional measures to ensure nitrogen space for the realisation of MIRT projects and the construction of 75,000 homes per year. The remaining money earmarked for the restructuring of pig farms goes to the mitigation of the seven MIRT projects and the intensification of the shore flow and shipping scheme in the provinces of North and South Holland. Whether it has any effect is only the question, but the Minister has guaranteed that additional measures may be taken. I have some questions about this. How effective are these management measures and is it enough? Why was it chosen for the provinces of North and South Holland and not for example North Brabant? How does the Minister intend to restore and improve nature in these areas in addition to mitigation? Mr. Chairman. The management measure Grant for the rehabilitation of pig farms has involved fewer entrepreneurs than was anticipated in advance. How active has the government been with fellow governments in approaching the relevant entrepreneurs? A dairy farmer close to sensitive nature has recently indicated in an article of the NIS that his nitrogen emissions are actually too high and he wants to sit down. But no one's approached him yet. Is this message correct? Is the Minister prepared to implement active policies for the approach of relevant entrepreneurs? Is the Minister prepared to take additional financial measures? If not, why not? To avoid losing more time, an active government is needed. Mr. Chairman. The problem of nitrogen keeps our country in a stranglehold. There is a housing crisis, with an increasing shortage of currently 269.000 homes. Many construction projects are stationary, with consequences for tens of thousands of workers in the construction sector. The budget proposal guarantees room for 75,000 new homes per year, but the coalition agreement is more ambitious, with 100,000 homes per year. How does the Minister reflect on the conclusion of the coalition agreement on this point, given its role as co-negotiator and minister? And how does the Minister reflect on the comparison between this budget proposal and the coalition agreement? Mr. Chairman. And now an ode to the farmers who grow environmentally and keep livestock in an animal-friendly way. There aren't many of them, but they're here. They are committed to preserving and improving nature and biodiversity and are entitled to fair and high yields. For too long, government officials have been looking away with negative consequences, including for these farmers. I encourage the Minister to tell the honest story. The fair story is that a substantial reduction in livestock is inevitable. We produce ten times as much veal and three times as much pork as we need in our country. The bio-industry causes a lot of pollution and animal suffering. Existing buy-back arrangements are not enough. Sometimes expropriation is necessary and the Minister himself does not rule out expropriation either. That is what my group supports. But I would like to have another commitment. If not, we will be forced to table a motion. We believe it is crucial to maintain this instrument. Mr. Chairman. For a nature-inclusive use of land, the government wants to take control of spatial planning with a land bank. Fine. The Minister also promised that the Preferable Law Act could be applied to municipalities. I would like to make a comment on this because the Wvg is not applicable to parcels with an agricultural destination. How does the Minister consider it possible to apply the Wvg to agricultural parcels? There are entrepreneurs who want to sell their land and the government wants to buy land, but how does the government want to buy this land if there is no insight into what is for sale? How does the Minister reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. The facts speak for themselves. Nature and biodiversity in our country are in poor condition. The outgoing cabinet does not seem to be aware of the urgency and reality. Deadweight and leadership remain out. Demissionary or missionary, also the cabinet must abide by the law, just like everyone else. In this Chamber we have the task of testing, among other things, for feasibility. The question now is whether this budget proposal will be able to achieve the objectives laid down by law. This budget proposal does not change the status quo, and the Minister has indicated that this is not enough to achieve the goals. For my group, therefore, it is clear. We are considering voting against, because time is still ticking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. Does one of the Members still wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-17.u54	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the debate. The discussion of this bill will continue later this afternoon. I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment.
