ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Hammelburg, Mr Bromet and Mr De Hoop amending the Constitution to add disability and sexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground, Section 35741. This is the first term of office. I volunteered to accompany this debate. The initiative proposal was submitted to the First and Second Chambers by members Van der Ham, Azough and Timmer in 2010. It was finally adopted by the Upper House in February 2021, with members Özütok, Van den Hul and the undersigned defending the proposal. It is very nice that it is still possible to do the first term on the side of Chamber before Christmas. It's a constitutional change. He's asking for two lectures. We are now working on the second reading. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in Box K by Mr Sijtsema, D66 policy supporter. Welcome also to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. She's here as a consultant. Once again, today is the first term on the side of the Chamber. The continuation is established as usual in consultation with the initiators. I'm assuming that's after Christmas. I wish the initiators a lot of fun. Of course, this is just listening, but it is exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u2	I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks for her contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always special when fellow chamber members defend an initiative law in trade union K. You could say that this initiative law is even more special, because it concerns the second reading of an amendment to the Constitution. I would like to congratulate the three initiators and their staff. Through them, I would also like to compliment the three predecessors from this place: colleague Vera Bergkamp and former colleagues Nevin Özütok and Kirsten van den Hul. They guided the first reading of this constitutional change with great passion and success through both Chambers. Apart from the content of this law, that's worth a big compliment. Special thanks also to Mr Van der Ham. He is actually the initiator of this change of law. He's here today. I wish the new initiators in Vak-K every success in the second reading of the proposal. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going to the content of the law. This is a second reading. The most substantive arguments have been reviewed at first reading in both chambers, but it is good that if we amend our Constitution, we will re-examine this at a second reading. After all, it is not desirable for us to change the Constitution, our most important constitutional document, too easily. The second reading is intended to look at it again as a parliament after the elections, to put our thoughts together and to consider the amendment of the constitution. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks wants the Netherlands to be a free, tolerant and inclusive society, where everyone must be able to be themselves. I am talking about a society in which no one is discriminated against. Article 1 of our Constitution regulates this and is therefore one of the most fundamental principles on which our society is built. Today we are discussing the initiative to amend Article 1. The current text of Article 1 lists a number of specific grounds and also a kind of general residual category. The present initiative proposal proposes to include discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, political orientation, race and sex as well as discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation. GroenLinks considered this to be a good explanation of the article at first reading and still thinks it to be a good proposal at second reading. The proposal is not intended to add two new grounds to the article of the Constitution. It is intended to explicitly name them, because these two non-discrimination grounds have gained increasing attention in society in recent years since the introduction of the current form of Article 1. With this proposal, we express the need for attention to be paid to people who, because of their sexual orientation or because of their disability, may face additional thresholds and resistance in society. With this, the clear message of this constitutional change is that in the Netherlands your sexuality and your physical limitations should not be a ground for being obstructed in your functioning and participating in our society. With emphasising that message, we are here today particularly emphasising the standards. The Constitution is of a sober nature and therefore always calls for an impact in underlying laws, such as the General Law on Equal Treatment. In the first reading, among others, my former colleague Renkema talked about the legal treatment in the early 1980s, when this discussion also took place, both about sexual orientation and about disability. Partly in the light of the spirit of the era of the early 1980s, it was decided not to explicitly include these grounds in the Constitution. In the opinion of our group, the objections raised at the time are no longer the same. Society has changed. As far as we are concerned, these objections are therefore no longer being raised. As far as my group is concerned, the initiators explained very well at first reading why this proposal is now constitutionally mature. For the history of law, I think it would be a good idea for them to be able to explain this further at this second reading. Mr. Chairman. In the legal sense, we have done quite well with our Constitution. If the proposal before us is adopted, it will be even better. However, the practice is of course more unwieldy. Unfortunately, we have to note that many people feel that they are not fully involved because they feel discriminated against. As a government, we must therefore try not only through legislation, but also through concrete policies to combat discrimination as much as possible. I would like to ask the Minister how we are going to ensure that citizens also experience in practice that discrimination is combated more effectively. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question that my group still has to ask the Minister. It is about the optional protocol to the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. In March, the cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber stating that it was up to the new cabinet to proceed with this. As regards GroenLinks, the Netherlands joins this optional protocol as soon as possible. I can easily imagine that the answer to these questions will only take place if there is a new cabinet. That is why my specific question is whether the cabinet is going to ensure that the Netherlands joins us. Mr President, I shall conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I would also like to welcome Mr Van der Ham on my behalf. I didn't see you there. I'm so glad you're here. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Laan of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna show off other people's feathers. That doesn't suit me. It has been over ten years since Mr Van der Ham, Mr Azough and Mr Timmer kicked off this constitutional change. Then it was picked up by you, President, Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Özütok. It is now up to Mr Hammelburg, Mr Bromet and Mr De Hoop. Thank you all for your commitment. There has been an interesting social and parliamentary debate over the last ten years. I am grateful and also honoured to be able to make a modest contribution to this, because about fourteen years ago, the Constitution literally entered my life. During my studies in public administration, I had to study the Constitution from the front to the back in order to be able to understand and apply it properly. Mr. Chairman. Modest, but clear. Much has already been said, but my party's position is clear. We strongly support this initiative. The extension of Article 1 of the Constitution to grounds of disability and sexual orientation is important for many reasons, but I would like to highlight one specifically. Article 1 of the Constitution deals not only with the prohibition of discrimination, but also with the right to equal treatment. These are two sides of the same coin. Yet both parts have a different accent. In the first place, the prohibition of discrimination imposes a negative obligation: everyone must refrain from making a distinction where that is not justified. A number of grounds are thus explicitly mentioned. The principle of equal treatment also contains a positive obligation: all who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. That requires something from us, from the way we set up our society and how we create a level playing field. I regret to note that this playing field is not yet the same for people with disabilities or a sexual orientation that differs from what is called the norm. One in five people with disabilities experience discrimination. Sexual orientation after origin is the reason why the police received most of the notifications and declarations in 2020. The playing field is uneven; as if you have to swim against the current and occasionally head-down. You're gonna have to work a lot harder than the rest of us. That's not equal treatment. I see this change, if it comes to it, also as a mission to society, to this Chamber, to make more work on the equal treatment of people with disabilities or a sexual orientation that deviates from the'standard'. It is a task to remove barriers so that everyone can participate on an equal footing in society, and that is, in my view, a fundamental social-liberal principle. Mr President, I have two more questions. In practice, citizens are often not dependent on the Constitution but on international treaties for the protection of fundamental rights. The discussion on the possible abolition of the ban on testing has also taken place in connection with the premium affair. Can the initiators reflect on what this Constitutional change means in the light of a possible abolition of the prohibition of scrutiny in the future? The Constitution has a strong symbolic meaning and carries out the core of the values on which it is based. An amendment to that Constitution therefore deserves every respect. I ask the Minister and the initiators how they see the possible new text being made known. Finally, Mr President. We welcome this proposal from Mr Hammelburg, Mr Bromet and Mr De Hoop. Thank you all. It was a long-term process, but I hope that this proposal will soon become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Werner of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to congratulate the proposers and the initiative. Mr. Chairman. Differences are there to connect. Differences make us have stories, inspire us and give hope. But there's something wrong with differences when we rule out, judge or ignore people. Then we have to take action and jump into the breach, whether you're male or female, gay or straight, with straight or crooked feet. Doing justice can only be done if we are sure that we are right before the law, that there is a Constitution that protects us if one of our differences treats us differently from another in the same situation. And that happens too often when you have a disability, or based on your sexual orientation. Too often people are excluded, disadvantaged or treated differently: no access to education or public transport, less job opportunities based on external characteristics. It is essential to name discrimination based on disability in the Constitution, to take important steps, hopefully, in the emancipation of people with disabilities, to show that we are failing society if we do not exploit the talents and abilities of people who are more quickly targeted by discrimination. And that's why it belongs in the Constitution, alongside religion, belief, political mind, race or gender. The Constitution is the highest law in the Netherlands. Through this adaptation, we prevent acquired rights for people with disabilities and lhbti'ers from being reversed in the future and give a strict requirement for future laws. It encourages concrete policies to prevent discrimination on these grounds. Article 1 of the Constitution is the best-known article. For this reason, it will increase the recognition of people with disabilities and, of course, of the Ihbti community. Mr. Chairman. Article 1 of the Constitution deals with equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination. Appointing grounds indicates urgency. It provides an important basis for combating discrimination in the Netherlands and promoting equal treatment for all. I have a question for the proposers. It is now important that sexual orientation and disability are included in the Constitution; we must appoint them. I can see that, but how do we ensure that, for example, discrimination at an age, something which is not allowed, is not less bad because it is not literally named? Mr. Chairman. Inclusion, connection and understanding on all fronts: that is what we must strive for with each other, always and everywhere. The contribution of the CDA Group may have been brief and perhaps the initiators have overlooked it, and that is why I would like to repeat the following here. The members of the CDA Group believe that discrimination is inadequate for society, as it prevents citizens from using their talents to the full. That's not out of favor, and not out of luxury, but because everyone is so desperately needed. Society is not complete if not everyone participates. The CDA therefore wholeheartedly supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mrs Werner. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PvdA would especially like to thank the proposers and their predecessors for the whole, lots of work. It was a lot of work, but then you've got something. Of course, I am also very proud that my colleague is here on behalf of the Labour Party with colleagues from GroenLinks and D66. The initiative law before us today is happy and sad at the same time. It all started in 2010. The predecessors of the MPs sitting here today felt that the series contained in Article 1 of the Constitution was not sufficient. They felt that the fight against discrimination should continue without delay and, even more, that the fundamental right of disabled people not to be discriminated against was not sufficiently safeguarded. They thought that there was no discrimination because your sexual orientation was not sufficiently secure. That you stand up to change the Constitution, that's quite something. If, as a Member of Parliament, you feel called to amend the Constitution because groups are still in such a tight spot, that is a sad vote. This fight for equality and against discrimination must continue to be pursued. That was the case in 2010. That's true now. So we've got business to guard. That is why the PvdA supports this proposal and this addition, because it allows us to monitor matters. I told you, it's cheerful, too. What's cheerful then? Happy is the intention of the proposers to regard the addition of these grounds to Article 1 as a confirmation, as an anchoring of what has already been achieved in the fight against discrimination against these groups. In fact, it is a kind of interim award on all the work that has already been done. The Labour Party also has a number of questions. It is striking that during the written round many questions were about gender, while the initiative law does not change the concept of "sex," but it does, and rightly so, give a broad explanation. Can the initiators, perhaps a little too much, go into that again? This amendment also serves as an incentive to promote equal treatment of disabled people and to combat discrimination based on sexual orientation. How do both the initiators and the minister see that? What is the Minister going to do to further combat these forms of discrimination in practice? My colleague from the CDA has already pointed this out. Can the initiators explain again why the extension of Article 1 does not provide additional protection for prohibited forms of sexual orientation? That is important, because there are many questions about this. That's what you see when you follow the social debate a little bit. I think about pedosexuality and bestiality. Does the Minister share the view that, by explicitly stating in the Constitution that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is prohibited, it becomes more difficult to reverse acquired rights of lhbti'ers? This situation could unhopedly arise if parties who, because of their religious background, do not have the rights of lhbti's people on a very high level could get a very strong hand. Finally, do the initiators and the Minister share the view that, if the judge is allowed to check whether or not laws comply with the Constitution, the power of Article 1 of anti-discrimination could increase? And what is the Minister going to do to ensure that this constitutional review is no longer prohibited? After all, other countries are often long gone. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you, Mrs Kathmann. Then I give the floor to Mr Ellian of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I consider it most honorable that I may stand here tonight. And why? When I studied law at VU University, I had to study Article 137 of the Constitution during what I then found to be the tough profession of state law. That Article sets out how the Constitution can ultimately be amended. To be honest, I didn't dream that I would ever be allowed to see a constitutional change at second reading - let alone deal with it. So, Mr President, this is a wonderful moment for me personally, but also a beautiful moment for the Chamber, of course. Quite nice, and that has already been mentioned by a number of my fellow Members, of course, is that the initiative to amend the Constitution comes from our own colleagues. And their names have already passed, but for the Acts I would like to mention them once: Van der Ham, Azough, Timmer, of course yourself, chairman, Mrs Bergkamp, Van den Hul and Özütok. These members have worked hard on this initiative proposal to amend the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Many important and beautiful things have already been said. I can agree with many of the words of previous speakers, so I will also keep it short from this place. In my group, however, the question was asked: should the provision not actually be narrowed lyrically, because it says 'on any ground'? But a disability or sexual orientation is so fundamentally a part of who you are, of your identity, of your being human, that it is not at all crazy to express that in Article 1 of our Constitution. Many arguments were exchanged at first reading, and all the predecessors of the initiators have already explained a lot, so my group does not have any further questions here at second reading. And, of course, I wish the current initiators every success in the further examination of this initiative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Elian. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you, Mr President. It is quite extraordinary to talk today about an amendment to the Constitution. That doesn't happen every day. That is why I am not taking it lightly, even though it is already the second reading. And as indicated earlier, many years have passed to come to this moment. And I also see a former applicant sitting in the back, I see the chairman, I see the current proposers. It's beautiful. It's special. And, Mr. Chairman, do I have a lot of questions? No, because the questions have already been asked at first reading and in written consultation prior to this debate. But that is why I would like to take a moment to consider the Constitution and its purpose, also in relation to freedom, and why we should cherish it in this way. I hope that the proposers will also reflect on this. There are many thoughts about the roles of laws, and the Constitution in particular, in our society. Let me begin with the fact that, as crazy as it sounds, there was a time in this country that there was no constitution, and that today there are countries without constitutions, where things are mostly fine. The Constitution can therefore not be the guiding foundation on which our society is built, but at best a firm and important anchored expression of that foundation. But where does our direction come from? If we deal with each other and live together, what we consider important and what we consider to be protective, such as today's two additions, can not necessarily be derived from the Constitution but from something deeper, what is the role? Then what do we derive our direction from? In Christian social philosophy, it is assumed that the law does not lead to freedom but is an expression of that freedom, and can also be an important shield and protection of the freedom that we, as a society, believe to have. But where does the freedom behind it come from? The Universal Declaration of Human Rights has tried to put that into words. The preamble begins with the following words. "Whereas the recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human community is the basis" there you have that word: the basis "for freedom, justice and peace in the world." There is talk of inherent human dignity. So we assume that every human being is of value, not because of who one is or what one does, or because of whether or not someone has a disability, or because of orientation. None of that matters much. The inherent dignity exists because the person is there. That is also the ground and foundation on which we build our society. That is what the Constitution is an expression of, and then all the acts and laws that result from it. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is deeply convinced that this dignity, that inherent dignity, did not suddenly arise a few centuries ago, but has always been there. It was not created by man, but given by a loving creator. This should be reflected in the preamble, the Constitution and all the other laws that result from it. I say consciously: should be. For history teaches that, unfortunately, this is not always the case with material laws. But that's exactly why moments like this are so important. On the contrary, we are expressing what we consider to be deeply important. Let's think about that, too. Let us, where necessary, where we believe it should be strengthened, as co-legislator take the time to anchor it. Mr. Chairman. People have been given the freedom to make choices in life from their deepest beliefs and beliefs. The Christian Union believes that we are called to share in these freedoms: equality, charity, tolerance, care for creation and freedom of faith. This also translates into the various constitutional freedoms, such as freedom of faith, freedom of expression, freedom of education and the right to equal treatment. These freedoms are dear to us. As far as we are concerned, these freedoms have no ranking and all of them have value. You will always have to weigh between these different freedoms, which may sometimes collide, in practice, as we do in this Chamber. I have asked the authors this question before, but I challenge them to go into it: the weighting of these fundamental rights. Is Article 1 the coat rack on which you hang everything? Or do you take the Constitution as a whole, in which you see fundamental rights, without any order but all of them, as part of total freedom, their expression and, consequently, their protection? I'd like to hear how the proposers look at that. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, this freedom is not without obligation, but requires a sense of responsibility, of protection. We have not been given that freedom to hurt the other or to establish unfreedom, we have been given her and therefore also the Constitution to build each other. I am pleased that the proposers are also doing so through this input and this addition, which is also included in our electoral programme. Mr. Chairman. I had one question, but it's already been asked by GroenLinks. We have not yet been able, or at least we have not yet taken the step, to fully implement and ratify the UN Convention on People with Disabilities in the Netherlands on the other side of the ocean, the BES. I would also like to mention this because this amendment of the constitution does not only mean something for the Netherlands in the European area, but also overseas. I would like to ask the authors how they look at this. And how can we ensure that we also include the BES islands in this? How do they view the ratification of the UN Convention? And how do they see the timetable? I am not allowed to table any amendments, but I believe that there is a motion, Mr President. So depending on the answer and how the Chamber looks at that, I hope we can give an extra step and a push in the right direction. Good luck, and thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u15	"All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be permitted." This first article of our Constitution was amended in 1983. It then followed a principle of non-discrimination already existing in the European Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe. Mr Ceder mentioned this as well. That treaty entered into force in 1953. This treaty is mandatory law: it goes beyond our national laws. Article 14 of the Convention states that the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms it mentions must be ensured without discrimination on any ground, such as sex, race, colour, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, membership of a national minority, property, birth or other status. Despite the current law of the European Convention on Human Rights, and therefore despite this Article 14, the government and parliament decided in 1983 after a long debate to add our Constitution to Article 1, which dates back to 1885. That article was then worded as follows: "All persons residing in the territory have an equal right to protection of persons and property." This became: "Discrimination on account of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race or gender is not permitted." By amending this Chamber, namely Marcus Bakker, the Chamber added "on whatever grounds" in line with the text of the European Convention on Human Rights. Unfortunately, discrimination isn't a thing of the past. Too often people become victims of unequal treatment. Notice of discriminatory algorithms has just been made by Amnesty International at the United Nations. They presented the report "Xenophobic machines: Discrimination through unregulated use of algorithms in the Dutch surcharge scandal." They rightly refer to the improper use, the discriminatory use, of nationality. That led to a mega fine to the Dutch Tax Authority of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, as we saw this week. To be perfectly honest, what do all those people who have been discriminated against have to do with that? Anyway, that's another debate. I will not ask these authors to do so. They also point out in that report that the system of selection was deepening itself, which, for example, made people with low incomes more and more likely to emerge as a risk and that high-risk people were excluded from the risk selection. Discrimination is everyday. It can happen to anyone in the Netherlands. If the supplemental scandal has shown anything, it's that it is. Then I have a question of conscience to the proposers. Do they think that membership of an economic class or nationality should also be included in Article 1 of our Constitution, given the recent disclosure of the supplement scandal, what has come out of it, the opinion of the Venice Commission and all of it? Would that be justified by the same argument as this proposal for a second reading? Is "on any ground" really not sufficient? Doesn't that offer enough protection? Mr President, you will recognize it yourself: the SP also produced it at first reading. Why am I telling this chairman? She was then the defender of this bill. She wasn't the author. This bill goes back to 2010. I like Mr Van der Ham. It was members Azough van GroenLinks and Timmer van de Partij van de Arbeid who submitted it together with Mr Van der Ham. And it was the members Bergkamp van D66, Özütok van GroenLinks and Van der Hul van de Partij van de Arbeid who picked it up two years ago and still managed to steer it through the Second Chamber and First Chamber. At that time we raised these questions, both in this Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. This second reading seems to be a formality, but of course it is not. A constitutional change is not easy for many Members to say. That doesn't happen for nothing. An election has to go over that. I hope to be standing here soon with a constitutional change at second reading. I hope, of course, for your warm words and support. But we said at the time that, despite the fact that we believe that the phrase in the Constitution 'on whatever ground' protects everyone in the Netherlands from discrimination, we are nevertheless sympathetic to this proposal. It has symbolic value and that is why we supported it. We will do that at second reading, but that does not mean that we are worried about it, because you can always have legitimate reasons, as I have just said, to extend the list of grounds on which you may be discriminated, but that does not mean anything about whether or not to consider the discrimination that is taking place. I'm hoping for a reflection from the proposers. I wish them every success in the defence at second reading, both in this Chamber and in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u17	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. All legislative proposals in the Netherlands are treated equally, but yes, there are legislative proposals that are a little more similar than others. In any case, this includes a legislative proposal to amend the Constitution. It is important to look carefully at every legislative proposal, but it is precisely because it concerns the Constitution that it is a very good thing to look at it again at second reading. The Upper House also has an important role to play in this. We are therefore pleased that today we are able to make a fresh contribution to the amendment of Article 1 of the Constitution. The SGP expresses its appreciation for the willingness of the initiators, the inherited initiators, I shall say, to take on that task and thus move the process forward. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there is no difference of opinion as to the standard that all people should be treated equally. The development of this standard can lead to legitimate differences of opinion, because what exactly are equal cases? That's not math. The weighting of the facts depends to a large extent also on your philosophical belief. Mr. Chairman. The SGP raised a number of questions on the grounds of sex discrimination at second reading. The government and the initiators then point out that this issue is not really on the agenda. Of course, that's right; I understand that, too. The SGP would also have preferred to limit the legal treatment to a discussion on sexual orientation and disability, but we also see that other groups have already asked questions about gender and that those questions have also been answered. That happened in the First Chamber, by the way. In particular, the SGP believes that the issue of gender and gender identity in the Constitution really requires greater consideration. It seems as if that is clear and clear to everyone, but if you want to guarantee that legally, then there is still a thought to be made. Appreciate the contribution made by the initiators in the reply. That is a serious start and that is a good piece of work. Appreciate that. At the same time, it also makes it clear that the response and the impact are not so simple. The SGP points out that the Human Rights College focuses primarily on the General Equal Treatment Act. This does not have to be the same as the interpretation of the Constitution, as the government and the initiators also recognised. I would also like to point out that European case law so far only deals with situations of gender adjustment and gender registration. That is quite different from assuming full protection of gender identity across the board. My question to the initiators is whether they recognize this difference. That seems all the more relevant to me because we see that the European Court of Human Rights was unanimously critical of a completely subjective definition of gender identity. I have a specific question for the Minister. She cited the definition of the WHO, the World Health Organization: gender identity concerns a deeply felt individual experience that may or may not correspond to the birth lineage. Yeah, we know that definition. But the question raised by this is: where are the objectivable characteristics in this? Or is it just the subjective experience? From a social and legal point of view, this is an important point. I would like to hear the Minister's response to that. I would like to ask the initiators what they are proposing in the judicial test they have appointed whether recourse to gender identity is justified. What procedure, what considerations, what considerations can we expect? Madam President, finally. In our country, the persistent misunderstanding continues that some fundamental rights, in particular those in Article 1, would be more equal than other fundamental rights. As we all know, of course that's not true. It's actually a form of legal fake news. Fundamental rights require careful consideration, with no absolute priority given to a particular article in advance. I do understand how that false thought arises and continues to exist, because she gets confirmation in all kinds of unfortunate ways. This is not only done by applying plaques and monuments for Article 1. The inclusion of equal treatment as Article 1 seems to make this even easier, but the choice of Article 1 is actually more coincidence than intent. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to take the liberty of making a somewhat daring proposal. Sometimes it's good to shake up the pillows. Meeting experts sometimes advise not to sit in the same chair all the time, but to change seats. At least that prevents you from rusting in a certain perspective. Would it not be useful to move the contents of Article 1 to another seat? I would like the Minister's response to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-13.u19	I thank the initiators. Good luck preparing for the sequel. I thank the supporters. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I thank the viewers. A new date shall be set in consultation with the initiators.
