ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the Law on Administrative Harmonisation in Vocational Education. Welcome to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. She will first listen to the first term of office. Eight speakers have signed up for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	The first is Mr Peters, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How beautiful that sounds when you say it so neatly. I must say that, when I was ready to have this debate last week, I thought: we will soon be done with that. It is a fairly clear law, which regulates a few things that should have been settled already, solves some things for shrinking areas and makes it easier to merge schools, without sacrificing a huge board of directors. I thought we'd get rid of that fast. Then Mr Kwint said that the debate had to be stopped and that something had to be changed that had to do with participation. This week the changes and the letters of fire flew to my ears. Mr. Chairman. I must say that I am not a lawyer, nor a specialist in the field of participation. But if I have understood correctly, participation on the vo is different, and perhaps better in the eyes of some, than on the MBO. Such a merger would make matters worse in terms of participation. In addition, there would have been bad communication with it. Can the Minister explain what's going on with that last one? Can she explain how she weighs this letter of fire? What can she possibly do? Today I was faced with a fourth letter of amendment. It was sent yesterday, but I read it today. If I have understood correctly, at least for the parents of the vo the problem is now out of the world, and we could, with the knowledge of today, be done just as quickly as I had thought of it last week. Mr. Chairman. If there's any way to do that, I think everyone should be able to get a kid around to school. A bit of cycling is not so bad, but there are limits. It is not for nothing that my predecessor Anne Kuik has often expressed her concerns about the shrinkage that the MBO faces, and the major consequences that this could have for the regions. Closing an MBO has implications not only for children, but also for business and life. If there's anything we can do, we have to stop it. In fact, I think we should be able to ban it if it turns out that a covering offer in a region is under pressure. We call this: inverse macro-efficiency. In 2018, we already asked for this with a motion for a resolution. This motion asked the government to examine, together with the field of education, how a reverse efficiency test could be set up, with schools jointly being given responsibility for maintaining a minimum coverage in the region. Unfortunately, the Minister put this aside because schools had to report it if they wanted to close. Well, I hope so. But a formal report doesn't give us a single handle here to do anything about it at all, does it? As far as we're concerned, that's not the right order. There is a limit to travel time and distance that can be asked of a younger person. That is why I have the following questions to the Minister. First of all... Does she agree with the CDA Group that we need to ensure that there is sufficient supply throughout the country, including of bol-training courses? Is it prepared to investigate how a reverse macro-efficiency test can be designed? What strategy and instruments are going to ensure that, in the event of shrinkage in the MBO, i.e. in the case of fewer pupils and less funding, there is a minimum coverage in the region? How does it ensure that MBO institutions are able to fulfil the obligation to provide a wide range of services when funding is made on the basis of the number of students and diplomas? Mr. Chairman. Competition is good, but cooperation is better. This bill will help with that. In principle, it will receive our support, although it may be a little more, a little more. A fusion between the vo and the mbo can be a wonderful solution to cope with shrinkage. And of course a collaboration between a vmbo and a mbo is much more obvious, also for educational reasons. A good continuous learning line is always a good idea, and with that there is always a profit to be made, even now, without merger. But cooperation with vo-schools that also offer HAVO and VBO may also be necessary in shrinking regions. I don't really see any objection to that. In fact, I think that should be possible. I have therefore tabled an amendment together with D66 to make this possible. Mr. Chairman. When a VBO merges with an MBO, a VBO may only offer profiles that are offered on the MBO. I understand that in itself, because if you want to become a welder and still have to cycle 73 kilometers after the vbo because the mbo doesn't have a metal department within your foundation, that is also a separate style figure. Nobody wants that. But would it happen? Or would it work the other way around, that on a vmbo only trade and administration and care is offered, because the mbo doesn't have a metal department? Now the Minister himself states that moving insight shows that this might impose a little too much restrictions on it and she does not want to send it on for the time being. Well done, I say. We therefore consider it appropriate that, at the time when the Minister intends to use this opportunity, this will be discussed again in the Chamber. That is why we are tabling an amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal provides that one MBO institution and one MBO institution may be part of a vertical school community. However, the Netherlands has 62 MBO institutions and about 648 secondary schools. This means that many vocational schools cannot qualify for the formation of a vertical school community unless, of course, they merge first. I would like the Minister, for example, to evaluate in a year's time the extent to which this is a restriction and it is necessary to amend the law and to ensure that several vocational schools, together with one MBO institution, can form a vertical school community without that complicated intermediate step. I would like to hear if the Minister is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, we would like to offer a sufficient supply of BBL and BOL training, including in shrinking regions. It is possible for this to happen, but we want something more. First of all, we want the possibility of fusion between MBO and vo, including HAVO and VWO, because that is not allowed yet; hence our amendment. Secondly, we want the possibility of fusion between an MBO school and several vocational schools. The only way to do that now is through that horrible detour. That is why I am asking for a commitment on this issue. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you very much for your input, and also for not using 40% of your registered time. I hope it's an example for others. Mr. Yassini will speak after you. He will do so on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. El Yassini... didn't I say that? Oh, sorry. It's El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to be here again. We've had the corona crisis. Many other debates have been given priority. It's nice to talk about education together again. In 2018/2019, I was a spokesperson for MBO education before. I had already indicated in my wallet that the MBO has conquered a huge place in my heart. I would like to stress that again today. I also always point out that if tomorrow all the MBOs were to strike, the country would go on hold immediately. That means nothing really happens anymore. Mbo'ers are the backbone of Dutch society. They make sure that we can all just enjoy and live together, and they make sure that professionals can actually get to work and help us. We are talking here about care, the construction sector and all other sectors. I cannot say often enough that we really must have that appreciation for the MBO together and that we must stand in front of the MBO. Too often I still hear: a pity, my child has been given vmbo advice and I am worried. Well, I can tell you that an MBO who is also an entrepreneur deserves a lot more in some sectors than the average lawyer on the Zuidas. So if we're going to talk about upward social mobility, you're really in the MBO. That is what I wanted to say again here, in this Chamber in plenary. Mr. Chairman. Now let's talk about the bill. The regional decline in population, the shrinking regions, have an impact on the accessibility of public services, including secondary education and vocational education, the MBO. In the Netherlands, over the next fifteen years, we will be facing a decline of about 15% of the number of students in the MBO. In regions such as the Achterhoek, Drenthe and Limburg, the decline of students in the MBO can even reach over 30%. Given that schools in vo and mbo are funded on the basis of student numbers, those schools and institutions will be hit hard, and in some places even disappear, if we do not intervene now. Over the next fifteen years, we will indeed be faced with a sharp drop in the number of students in the MBO. This has major consequences for the whole of the Netherlands: for future students, for parents, for the labour market, for our economy and for MBO education, the decline will have significant adverse consequences. This is a problem that has no easy solution. We can't just open a can of students and go on with business as usual. That's why the VVD welcomes this bill. The current legislation is crooked when it comes to a consistent and easily applicable legal framework in the area of financing, cooperation, for example, administrative mergers and transfers of management and housing. In shrinking regions, but also in the rest of the country, we see an educational landscape of separate preparatory vocational education, separate MBO institutions, aocs with green preparatory vocational education and separate professional institutions, all of which have different buildings, laws, regulations, regulations and funding ads. For example, the legal rules governing the formation of a vertical school community at an agricultural educational centre are totally different from the laws governing the formation of a vertical school community at a roc. My colleague from the CDA, Mr. Peters, said that. And professional institutions have very different laws and regulations than those aoc's or rock's. In the end, it's all just mbo. For this reason, the VVD considers it important to achieve harmonisation in order to draw a consistent and easily applicable line and to allow schools and MBO institutions to work together, to merge administratively where necessary and to achieve economies of scale. These economies of scale can be achieved, for example, in the area of reallocating surpluses between a VBO school and an MBO institution or in the area of housing. This will make it possible for schools and institutions to ensure financial continuity. Education does not thrive when all forms of education work on separate islands. In particular, this puts pressure on the continuous learning line in shrinking regions. A continuous learning line is that you start in vocational education at VMBO, go to MBO and start working as a professional at some point. Or, if you really want to, you can still study. You can still go to the associate degree or even the HBO. The continuity of these separate schools will be compromised, so we need to focus on good education rather than on financial survival with falling student and student numbers. The VVD supports this bill, but we still have a few questions. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reply. In its reply to the vertical school communities, the Minister states that they should limit themselves to mbo and practical education, preparatory vocational education and/or mavo, because there is little substantive coherence between mbo and havo and not at all between mbo and vwo. I understand that, but this is, of course, about administrative harmonisation, where broad school communities should also be given an opportunity. The bill therefore excludes the types of school havo/vwo from joining a vertical school community. How does this exclusion relate to the observation that areas with less school provision in particular are likely to benefit from a vertical school community, as administratively it may be more attractive to work together? Does this de facto mean that large schools are excluded from this law? Can the Minister reflect on this? Mr President, I come to my second question. We read in the note following the report that aoc's will be put under pressure as a result of the decline in the number of pupils and students. The Minister replied that the government had been talking to the MBO sector for a long time about the large impact of falling student numbers. In addition, she notes that the aocs generally picked up the glove well. Several aocs have recently announced concrete steps to continue administrative cooperation. How does this step, which is apparently considered to be positive by the Minister, relate to the exclusion of cooperation with, for example, havo and vwo schools? Especially in areas with declining numbers of students and pupils, broad school communities will more often exist. I would also like an answer from the Minister. The VVD also reads in the answer that MBO schools retain an independent and distinctive identity after a transfer of management. How will the Minister ensure that the choice of students and students is guaranteed in all areas of the Netherlands? In the reply, the Minister states that she considers the distinction made by the WEB, the Education and Vocational Education Act, between respect for and adherence to the basics of schools by pupils to be undesirable. For example, a special MBO institution can only require students to respect the foundation and objective of the institution. On the other hand, for levels 3 and 4, students may be asked to subscribe to the basis and objective. The question remains: if she finds that this is undesirable, will the Minister amend the law on this? For example, students who, within a vertical learning line, go to MBO levels 3 or 4 are not confronted with the basis of a school, which they must otherwise subscribe to instead of just respecting? At least that is not clear in the answer, so we would like to have an answer to that. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal Administrative harmonization of vocational education and training is currently limited to cooperation between the MBO and the MBO. For a number of years, the associate degree has been given a permanent place in higher education in order to reduce the gap between secondary vocational education and higher education, in order to strengthen vocational training as an integral whole. The associate degree is not currently part of the VET Administrative Harmonisation Act, but could be a good addition in the context of the continuous learning line. After all, we are talking about vocational education, where you start with vmbo, then do the MBO, and then, possibly, that first two years, the association degree, continue in your vocational training. Why did the Minister choose not to let this Ad be part of the vertical school community? And is the Minister prepared to investigate the possibilities, potential bottlenecks and experimental space, for example when it comes to financing an Ad-training programme, to make the associate degree part of the vertical school community, to look specifically at how a pilot can be designed and inform the Chamber about this? I am very curious to hear the Minister's response, because we are all fighting, here in this Chamber too, to make this continuous learning line as strong as possible. We need those professional professionals in the Netherlands very much. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost at my conclusion. This cabinet is taking an important step towards switching and finding solutions for the ever-increasing number of students and students. However, the subject of falling student numbers cannot be separated from the labour market and the macro-efficiency of training and institutions. It is no secret that the VVD attaches great importance to macro-efficiency and that the VVD is allergic to training for young people for jobs that are simply not there now but also in the future. In short, training for unemployment is not acceptable. On 6 March 2019, the VVD, together with the Chamber, received a commitment from the Minister to instruct the Committee on Macroefficiency to conduct an investigation into administrative and economic MBO training. In December 2019, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber with three partial reports. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	I just put on my jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	Nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	I note that the President and I are the only ones left with the decorum in plenary. I'm pleased to hear that. I don't see any ties, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	It's a tie, not a tie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	But my question is whether it is the intention of the VVD to hang the associate degree to the vertical school community, or to leave it where it is now. At the time, at the very beginning of the associate degree, I myself advocated hanging it on the MBO, as a kind of level 5, as a role model for the rest. There was absolutely no majority for that at the time. I've always regretted that. It took a long time for the associate degree to take shape. In Rotterdam, Ron Bormans picked that up incredibly well. That's become kind of a model for the rest of us. It's running now. I'm afraid if we start to mess with that administratively and legally-technically, it's gonna be a mess again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	My question is: it is now, so why don't we leave it alone now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	I understand Mr Beertema's concerns very well, precisely because we have had this discussion in the past. The associate degree belongs in higher education. That is, for the people at home, the first two years of your HBO education, where you immediately get a diploma after two years. It is not the case that I am now in favour of moving that associate degree to the MBO, because it would then be covered by the Education and Vocational Training Act. I'm not arguing for that. But in the vertical school community we do see a possibility, especially in shrinking areas, to combine the Vo, which is covered by the Law on Secondary Education, and Vocational Education, which is governed by the Law on Education and Vocational Education. Of course, the same applies to this associate degree. It is covered by the Higher Education Act and you could leave it there, regardless of the fact that a university can cooperate with an existing vertical school community. Then one can say: here in school we keep it in college, but we might as well have it in the building. Then you get a much firmer continuous learning line. It is not intended to then hang it under the MBO, because then it becomes an entire merger. With this bill, we are mainly talking about transfer of management and administrative mergers. So those two are separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	There is a danger that one more element will be added, when we are so afraid of this conglomerate formation. Those directors especially in the MBO are masters in searching for perverse stimuli. I'm afraid this could be another extra perverse incentive to grow and grow. I'd say don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	That is exactly what I am talking about here today. Mr. Beertema points to that perverse incentive of drivers to get bigger and bigger. I know a lot about the incentives that drivers have; I know almost all of them.I think it is the incentive to give good education to students to prepare them for the future. For an associate degree linked to a vertical school community, cooperation with a university is needed. When the college says, "I don't want it," it doesn't happen. I'm not asking you to hang it underneath. Otherwise, I would have tabled an amendment to make the Ads part of the vertical school community. What I ask the Minister is: let's see with pilots what effect this has. That could be one or two pilots. If the evaluation shows it doesn't work, Mr. Beertema, you'll find me by your side. Then I'll say straight away, "We shouldn't do that." I'd rather send in information and evaluation at the moment we've realized the pilots than say yes or no in advance, without knowing if it's having an effect. I'd rather see where that experiment room is first. And then we can hang out together to see if it's okay for that student, because that's what it's all about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	Finalizing, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	Let's see what the minister thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	Fine. Mr. El Yassini, you may conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	Yeah, rounding it up. We did get three reports. I'm not gonna name them all. For the people at home: good luck with the search, because I didn't find it out in the open. We had to do that through Parlis. The reports were made on behalf of the Commission on macro-efficiency MBO. The Committee gave its opinion directly to the Minister. We were able to read that in the letter. I don't see anything on the committee's website about the advice. If you go to the website, you will receive an overview of all the advice they have given. The last one was from 2018 about MBO Artists. I don't see anything else on the website itself. So you just don't get there as an interested person. The reports are also about VMBO students and MBO students, but they mainly look at the past rather than the future. I've got all three reports on me, and I've studied all three from front to back. I constantly see that the past is looked at: what have we seen in the past? But technology and digitalization are moving very fast. That deserves a look ahead. I miss an important analysis of the labour market perspective over the coming years and decades. One of the indicators related to the labour market perspective is to at least check whether someone has a minimum of 12 hours of employment within a year. I don't know if the Minister has tried to get around as a single-person house with a 12-hour job, but that's impossible. We'll see it at the housing market. It is almost impossible to find a house as a full-time worker, rent or buy, let alone if you only work 12 hours a week. It is also bizarre that there are major labour shortages in other sectors. It's not like this anymore. In the case of administrative and economic training, we see that "work within our own training domain" falls very far behind the rest of the MBO: 54% and 43% compared to 57%. If you have been trained for an economic or administrative position, almost half of you cannot go to work for which you have studied. This is a difference with the rest of the MBO training: 67%. In the case of certified outflow, we look for work within our own training period. Per vocational training we see outliers of 30%. This means that no less than 30% of students in this programme work at least 12 hours a week in a position for which they have been trained. My question to the Minister is: what steps has she taken since the publication of these three partial reports? We're talking about a letter from 2019. Will the Minister insist on the need for a study and advice on the labour market perspective and the effectiveness of economic and administrative MBO training, as has been done with creative MBO training? Is she going to order that? Finally. In addition, the VVD wants the MBO to be linked to the labour market, not only in terms of content, but also on the basis of training and labour market perspectives, i.e. business demand. The VVD would very much like the cabinet to investigate for once how the match is between educated and job vacancies. We see a screaming deficit in certain sectors, a really screaming deficit. In certain sectors, we see an enormous excess of people. I'm very curious if the Cabinet wants to investigate what that match is between the people we train, the functions in which they are pouring out and the vacancies we have in business. If the Minister has any information on that, I would like to receive it. I refer again to the percentage: 54% and 43% of the MBO know how to find a function within their own domain. That's from those partial reports. We want to know how many graduates in this training are pouring out and what the supply of professionals is compared to the demand from industry and the contraction in the labour market. Is the Minister prepared to investigate whether to send any supporting information she has to the Chamber? We are very curious about the Minister's answers and reactions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you, too. You have taken about half the time saved by Mr Peters. That's okay. It's a bill. The next speaker was Mr Kwint, who spoke on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to spend the next hour and a half on the Law on Administrative Harmonisation Mbo. Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Members for having decided last week to postpone the debate and for being able to carry it out. I know that this is not a very popular proposal with regard to the plenary agenda, but I think that we are doing justice to the legislative process because we have now been able to take the changes very carefully. The question is a little bit: is bigger always better? After the last elections, with the substantial expansion of my portfolio, I have been able to see the benefits of some magnitude. In any case, a larger group is quite useful. But there is also another side of continuous scaling up and it is visible in vocational education. Under the influence of political incentives, a massive increase in the scale of vocational education has been achieved over the last 20 years. Vocational training was merged under a large umbrella in regional training centres on the outskirts of the city. That is not a reproach to the teachers who do their important work there, or to the students, or even to the current directors. I often blame the current directors, but in a way they operate within the system that has been devised here. I wonder how the cabinet sees this scale increase over the last 20 years. In the end, we are talking today about a law that is primarily intended as an instrument against the increasing shrinkage in some regions. How is it that, after a wave of scaling-up in vocational education, the main solution for this cabinet to better arm training and institutions against shrinkage is ultimately growth? Think, for example, of an administrative merger, merger or administrative harmonisation. In the end, therefore, there may be a larger educational institution or at least a larger umbrella, depending on the chosen method of cooperation. The question then is: what has changed in education that, where there seems to be more attention to the negative sides of scale right now, the solution is still merger, intensified cooperation, administrative merger or administrative cooperation? Look, there's a logic behind it, because our education is primarily funded on the basis of student numbers. So more students means more money. But if we all, as a society, consider a high-quality offer of vocational education to be important throughout the Netherlands, then of course we can also simply opt for a different form of funding. What, for example, has the cabinet learned from the death of the merger test? In fact, it seems here that against the ever-changing spirit of time, it had to be administratively proposed to increase its scale again as a solution. When we talked earlier about shrinking in education, especially in secondary education, we were reminded by the Minister, who was another minister, by the way, Minister Slob, that there is a ministerial task force dealing with problems of shrinkage and, for example, maintaining the level of provision in smaller municipalities. Have we looked, for example, through such a committee or through a special allowance for education in shrinking areas, for a solution other than that of the administrative reconstructing of various educational institutions? If that has not even been considered, I wonder what exactly the committee dealing with shrinkage areas is doing. This seems to me to be an excellent thing for such a group of ministers to consider. The teachers in the MBO are into it. Those who ask for more space than the law now offers, but for example parents, students, students, teachers come to us and say: wait a minute, this started out as a very small law to regulate something in the field of agricultural education, but has become an increasingly large law with quite considerable consequences and we feel that we are not sufficiently involved in this. How does the Minister respond to that? What has gone wrong there that so many educational institutions now feel obliged to ring the bell with us? I immediately agree with everyone who says that it is impossible to agree with the whole of education, but not hearing them at all is the other extreme. I get the impression that the Minister will come back to this after replying. The VO council says, domestically, simply limit yourself to the necessary changes in agricultural education. That's right, there's not much discussion about that. There's gotta be another way. That's gotta be better. The VO board says don't do the rest now. They don't see the need. According to them, everything in the law has been messed up that they don't think had anything to do with it. How did that happen? Why did the cabinet decide to do this? What, according to the Cabinet, makes this law possible in the fields of professional colleges, cooperation colleges, vertical school communities which was not yet possible? In our view, scaling up, administratively or not, requires better participation, better democratic control and participation rather than a lesser guarantee. The cabinet knows, I suspect, the objections of the SP to the participation regime as it already applies on the MBO. The Works Councils Act is largely applicable there and we really believe that in other places in education the structure of participation functions better than in the MBO. Of all forms of participation in education, the MBO is most reminiscent of works councils such as those in many companies. As far as we are concerned, an MBO is fundamentally not a company. It is about cooperation between secondary education and the MBO. Then there is, in any case in our opinion, a system of participation and participation, the School Participation Act, which is largely working well. At the MBO there are more complaints about it. After all, the choice is made to allow the MBO's regime to be the ultimate leader in any administrative harmonisation. In the meantime, fortunately, there is a letter of amendment, which I have been able to read in detail, which does indeed meet some of the requirements. I believe that this concern is recognised in it. However, there are many reasons why it is wise to rely primarily on participation as it is common in large parts of education, such as secondary education. This is about, for example, who should be in charge of the school and maintenance needs. These are all matters that have been better taken into account in the School Participation Act, and are better regulated in participation than in the School Participation Act. That is why we have tabled an amendment which mainly imposes the Law on participation in schools at the possible colleges of cooperation. I am curious to see what the Minister thinks about this and what her considerations were about the initial presentation of the bill as she has submitted it. That's a bit coincident with another concern of ours. In recent years, much has been said here about the establishment of a single collective agreement in education, but I think we can all see that this collective agreement is still quite far away. What does administrative cooperation or merger mean, for example, for teachers' labour rights? Can we assume that you won't be used anywhere when an MBO and a VMBO start working together? Can we assume that the powers as requested of teachers will simply remain complete and that it will not be attractive for a government to go shopping in terms of working conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	I have already said in my contribution that I am not a lawyer, let alone an expert in the field of participation. When I hear Mr Kwint like this, I ask myself the following. If his amendment is adopted, will we have two different types of participation on different types of MBOs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	Let's see... Yeah, I think that's gonna be the case in a way. It is true that the Law on participation in schools is applied to these cooperation schools, just as you would have to deal with the current legislative proposal with two participation regimes in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	That's what I'm wondering. On the same paper, I had a lot of trouble reading it this morning, I think I read that in the new vertical schools the position of the parents is the same as in other vo-schools. So this is arranged and organized. Then that would be about the same thing. Do I not understand you correctly or are you really going to make a difference with the rock in Oss or somewhere in a shrinking area, giving us very different participation councils on similar forms of education? Isn't that unusual?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	In my view, it is specifically a question of situations where it is not so clear which of the regimes would apply and to which you would prefer. If I understand correctly, the Minister initially said in the sent-up law: that must be the participation regime as we know it within the MBO. She has now made a few changes to this, but I seriously wonder whether this will solve all the problems and whether it would be better to extend participation as we know it in secondary education, for example, in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	Finally, then. Again, I know as much about participation on MBOs as a cow of cards, so that's not so bad. Yeah, laugh about it! It's bad enough. I see two different types of participation in similar school groups, on MBOs. Would you like to see participation as it is on the MBO? I do know about participation on the MBO. If that is the case, then I say: fine, but that is another debate. Let us then have the debate on whether we cannot do it widely, rather than amending it here for just this small group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	That's right. I agree with Mr Peters on this point. This is not the time to have the whole discussion about the comparability of the various participation regimes. I like to have that debate. I suspect that, like the cow just mentioned by Mr Peters, I can also learn from that. This is mainly about situations in which it conflicts. By an administrative merger or by forming a vertical school community you get all that together. In that case, there could certainly be conflicts. But I see that my answer raises another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	Finally, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	I wonder. I saw that fourth letter of amendment this morning. The way I read it, those problems are solved. It is in the vertical group then as regulated as at other vo-schools. Maybe I don't understand. That's what I'm asking the Minister. Maybe I didn't quite understand what was in that fourth note. Or Mr. Kwint doesn't understand. Minister, you'll have to explain later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr. Peters, the latter is certainly not to be ruled out on this subject either. In fact, I think it would be wise to pass on this question. When I'm solving a problem that doesn't exist, I think we can all do better. I'd like to talk about that again with a cabinet at a later date. Maybe one day we'll get a new cabinet. Who knows! I see some people shaking a bit coy no. Then we have to talk again about the various participation regimes, their advantages and disadvantages and the legislative changes needed to do so. I was triggered by an e-mail from an educational organisation that wrote: in some respects it is also a bit of a conflicting view of education if you compare it with what we hear from this cabinet. You will notice that there is a broad search within education to postpone selection moments, for example, and to allow more transition. This involves broad bridge classes and being able to sit together in the classroom. To what extent does the Minister fear that this may lead to the separation of young people at an even earlier stage than at secondary school and vocational training? From the moment they enter such a vertical school community, they are already in a certain box of Mr Van Meenen's shufflebox! Our Constitution and our education laws also give the government another important responsibility. Public authorities must ensure that there is sufficient public access to education at their fingertips. Mr El Yassini mentioned it, I believe, but what if an MBO and a secondary school, administrative or not, merge into a vertical school community and apply a certain admission policy based on their beliefs? What then remains of the guarantee function of public education? That is quite apart from the fact that there are hardly any public MBOs, but I will have a question about that later. There are MBOs with identity-based admission policies, but let me start with a question about the possibility of public MBOs. That is also a discussion that I do not want to pull out tonight, because we will be here for far too long. But could the Minister, for example, have a discussion with educational parties or ask for advice from, I mention, the Council of State to identify what is needed to enable the formation of public MBOs? As far as we are concerned, the form we have now remains a bit of a crazy form, also because, especially in shrinking areas, the guarantee function is sometimes at stake. And we're talking about shrinking areas today, anyway. Then there is the situation which may arise in my reading of the new law. I would like to stress that this is only a small part of the schools. What does this law mean in conjunction with that admission policy? For example, do you get admitted to high school first, but do you have to get rid of that school if you want to go to MBO school there and have an orthodox signature? Or the other way around, you can't go to that vertical school community for the MBO until you've followed your vo-part at another school because you're not admitted to the school because of non-subscribing the identity of that school? That seems rather complicated to us, and we have therefore prepared two amendments. I would like to stress, however, that it is not at all my intention to bring Article 23 to the fore, because I have put it on the to-do list for the future cabinet, if any. I like to have that discussion with great love, but I do not think we should burden this minister with it now, although I do not rule out the fact that she might be a little closer to my opinion on that article than her fellow minister at the other end of the hall. Finally. Almost finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	I hear Mr Kwint say: it is not my intention to stir up the whole discussion on Rule 23 now. He will leave that for the next time, but I noticed that one of the two amendments is specifically aimed at those schools and that that amendment actually means that the discussion is being broken down. In fact, it is already enshrined in the law. How does Mr Kwint see this? Of course, it may now be possible for an amendment to reach a majority which actually ensures total accessibility to special vocational schools, while we still have to have the broader discussion on Article 23, either in formation or in a somewhat larger debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	I have tried to formulate both amendments in such a way that they only apply to those vertical school communities. Why? Because I do not think it is in the interests of the student that he should either be allowed to enter the school in the middle of the years that such a school offers, or have to look halfway for another school, while the purpose of this law is to organise education somewhat nearby. You would not realize this for some of the students, for the simple reason that they should not be admitted unless they endorse the identity of the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	Finally, Mr President, an enlightening question. So what Mr Kwint is saying means that if the amendment remains tabled, we are going to vote on it and if the amendment makes it, we will just have a split down the middle: schools that sit in vertical school communities and special education, and ordinary vocational schools that do not sit in a vertical school community and which are therefore subject to different rules. Does Mr Kwint expect this to produce an issue, because if the amendment succeeds, it will actually be detoured through the Council of State, instead of us boxing things for each other? Are we not going to have a delay, precisely with this bill, which is so incredibly needed in those shrinking regions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	As far as that last sentence is concerned, I am curious to see to what extent this is so badly needed. Because there is already a certain formation of vertical school communities. I am receptive to the argument as to whether you are not getting too close to the constitutional debate and whether that will not delay you. I think it is fine to seek advice on this, but I do understand that if that would mean a great deal of delay, people will be less happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	On the same point, I think, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	This is also the result of the last interruption and to make things clear. I appreciate what Mr Kwint says in this context that he does not want to pry away from the debate on the interpretation of Rule 23 and on admissibility and acceptance. From a legislative point of view, this is a pure approach, i.e. appreciation for it. But we also know that there is a different regime of admission to the MBO than that of the MBO. There are other accents in these different laws. If I read the amendments correctly, the MBO regime will in fact be extended to a vertical school community.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	In both cases it is indeed a question of respecting the basis but not of supporting it, if I put it correctly. Is that what Mr Bishop is referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	No, look. The freedom of education as interpreted so far is: leave schools the room to make demands on the admission of pupils. If I read the amendments correctly, for schools which form part of such a vertical school community, that space will be deleted, that is to say, by the amendments tabled by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	That's right. With the main objective that we would find it an extremely strange figure that if those vertical school communities were encouraged to keep at home near school, pupils might not have the opportunity to attend at home without being obliged, for example, to sign such a declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	I understand that consideration. At the same time, however, you can see that this affects so much the fundamental right of freedom of education, that I wonder if you should not follow the careful route here too, through normal advice from the Council of State and the whole process. I can imagine that the discussion of principle will be held first, and if it has been conducted, possibly by means of an amendment to this bill, it will be settled as soon as the outcome of that discussion of principle indicates. That seems to me to be a more careful route. I would like to consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	I wonder to what extent this affects the freedom of education. Freedom of education includes the right of parents, for example, to unite and establish a school. I don't have to tell Mr Bishop about that. He knows an infinite lot more about that than I do. This amendment does not in any way affect the freedom of parents to do so, even in spite of what I think, to conduct, for example, an admission policy. All we're saying is that we can't do that in the context of a vertical school community.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr Bishop, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	So I do not know whether I agree with you that this directly affects that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	But the freedom of education is not only the right of foundation, but also the right of establishment, the right of direction and so on. When it comes to admission requirements, that affects the right of establishment of those schools. This will affect administrative responsibility, freedom of education and those schools that are designed in a certain way. That is certainly what Mr Kwint's amendments are dealing with. In this sense, it directly affects that freedom of education. I therefore call for a careful route and an honest, open discussion on how we want this to be arranged, but then on the royal road. You don't mean it like that, and I appreciate your integrity, including this one. Except this has some kind of backdoor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	I'm curious. I do not rule out the fact that the Minister agrees with you in part. What I'm just curious about... I'm really wondering. Look, the freedom to set up a school of your own will not be restricted. It is simply said that if you want to pursue admission policy, if you want to add additional conditions to that, even if we do not do anything about it, then we do not do so within the context of the vertical school community.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	You have given your answer. Mrs Westerveld also wants to interrupt on this point, I think. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yeah, in the hope that I'll make the confusion less than more. Is it true that Mr Kwint's amendment stipulates that a pupil who is in secondary education and who wishes to pursue that on MBO cannot be refused at once within the vertical school community because of the special basis of that institution? Is that what the amendment does?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	That is what one of the two amendments does. The other protects the reverse route, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mr Kwint continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	I believe that all these questions have given me a reasonable run-through to my main points of reference. I just hope that the Minister will also consider the next question in his reply. Where does the analysis come from that when you are faced with shrinkage, with decline in the number of students or students, for example that administrative scale increase or that further scale increase is than the chosen means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr Bertema, who will speak on behalf of the Party for Freedom. We are now in net speaking time five minutes before schedule, let me add. But the interruptions also take time. Yes, I'll allow them. I'm just calling in the progress report. Mr. Beertema, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr. Chairman. Rule 23 often makes these debates very long. Until 2033 the MBO will face an expected drop in student numbers of almost 15%; it has already been said. We must take account of the fact that vocational education is a relatively costly form of education in terms of buildings, equipment and technical equipment. We all want to train students with state-of-the-art equipment that we also see in business, which we eventually train for. As a result of this falling trend, the Education Inspectorate has found that, for example, agricultural training centres are under financial pressure. Especially in the shrinking regions, this can have a major impact. In order to counter this, the law aims to improve and broaden the scope for cooperation between MBO institutions. This is achieved by improving the transfer of management, in addition to the possibilities such as the Cooperation College and the institutional merger. We also see the advantage of a transfer of management. Institutions can then retain their individuality. That's important. The proposal also seeks to make it possible to improve administrative cooperation between institutions and schools in different educational sectors by creating so-called new vertical school communities. Mr. Chairman. We see the need for this bill. It deserves a compliment that the government is keen on this. In order to continue to finance and keep access to costly vocational education and training, in terms of duration, in areas affected by shrinkage, greater cooperation should be sought but without this undesirable increase in scale. This uncontrolled increase in scale does not seem to be the case in this proposal, because the Minister will eventually have to give his prior consent, because the abolition of the merger test, which was very important to us, was rejected in June last year in that very sensible First Chamber. There wasn't much left of that merger test, but well, the minister's gonna do it now. And we have every confidence in the Minister; you know that, because improving the transfer of government can ensure that schools do not disappear in a large administrative moloch but can preserve their individuality. The formation of vertical school communities is also a necessary development. It provides continuous learning lines in a familiar environment, which the PVV Group has been advocating for a long time. The vm2 t-courses and so on; I referred to that for a moment. Continuous learning means strengthening vocational education. We do not therefore see anything in the call of almost all unions to integrate havo and vwo under the heading of equality of opportunity into that vertical school community. We are in favour of strengthening the professional column. Shouldn't the unions stand up for the strengthening of vocational education and training, of continuous learning routes, so that vocational education and training can regain the status it deserves? We want to get rid of the trend that MBO should no longer be a final education. The legislative proposal seems to confirm this, especially since the strengthening of vocational education, which is the aim of this law, will enable business to be better involved in vocational education. That's very important. This would have a positive impact on the integration of vocational education and training into the labour market. In the end, we would have liked this law not to have been necessary. In addition to the demographic decline, which is commonplace, we also see a hollowing out of vocational education through the havo-ization, let me just mention. The result is a decline in student numbers, and in a labour market that no longer provides sufficient technical skilled staff, we have to take it from abroad. It cannot be that the dogma of equal opportunities focuses solely on theoretical and general education as the highest attainable. There is no doubt that dedain comes from the PhDs, from the theoretical trained to the practically trained...... El Yassini already referred to......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We must not forget, too, that I agree with the VVD, that the MBOs are still the backbone of our economy, our middle class and our society, whether the PhDs like it or not. That is why we support the Minister's statement that greater cooperation in the professional field is important in order to promote young people's opportunities. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we are in favour of Mr Kwint's amendment of the Socialist Party and the unions saying that participation should be regulated through the WMS. As far as we're concerned, the WMS is a good practice. In the vo it works to the full satisfaction. Finally, we have another question about the decline expected in vocational education as a result of the decline in secondary education. This decline in the number of students is not expected in higher education. That is a strange discrepancy, which needs a little more explanation. Is that indeed the result of what I call 'havo-ization' in the discourse of inequality of opportunity? Can the Minister answer that? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	It's a kind of rollercoaster, just to put it in Dutch: one minute I'm passionately in agreement with Mr. Beertema, the next minute we separate our paths again. That doesn't mean much, because after that we can just get back together. We're all in agreement on that. That's a valuable thing. That's a good thing. I will also deal with this in my own contribution. But a secondary objective of this law is also: to respond to shrinkage, to offer a solution. I understand what Mr Beertema is saying about Havo-ization and its breadth, but are most schools in the shrinking areas not quite wide, as a result of this shrinkage? You can say in theory: let it be just that vertical column; leave the havo and vwo out of it. But does Mr Beertema not fear, like me, that in practice there will be very little possible, because most schools in that area are large schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	It happens in parliament, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	Let's see if we can find each other again. It's about the professional column.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	I do not have exactly on the retina whether in the shrinkage areas there are many more broad school communities than elsewhere. I can imagine that it is, but still my fear of this law is... As far as I'm concerned, the Minister took it away. We are always afraid of the emergence of these conglomerates. You've been with us for a long time, and you know how that works. I have just mentioned the perverse stimuli in the interrupting debate with Mr Kwint. They're everywhere. I am so afraid that at some point the vo will be snowed under again in the administrative violence of the roc drivers. I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	I understand all that, and I can sympathise with that, but that risk is even greater if the school that could go down in that violence is just a vmbo. My point is... But let's ask the minister. I'll do it myself. We have also seen this discussion in the context of the new funding in the United Kingdom. Especially in shrinking areas there are a lot of broad schools. At first, they seemed to be hit by the funding, but we did something about that. I hope Mr Beertema is prepared to... If that is the case, I hope that we will not come into some kind of beautiful theoretical model, in which the VMBO departments are allowed to do it but in practice do not appear to exist as an independent school at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	The Minister is bravely listening to this and will undoubtedly respond to it. I have also raised this issue because I do not think it is appropriate that different parties should be called "stakeholders', as it is called so beautifully in the education sector, and that this should be linked to the discourse of equality of opportunity. That is why I said: it is not the case that equality of opportunity should only lead to theoretically skilled people. That's that frame that the MBO isn't enough. That's a big problem. This threatens to happen if we hang the VWO and the HAVO, when, as far as I am concerned, they do not really belong in the vocational column of vocational education. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you. Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Westerveld, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the first reading of the law, you always browse the explanatory memorandum. At least I always do. At that time I thought the same thing as Mr Peters. We have a number of practical problems in education, such as the drop in apprenticeships, and you have to have a practical solution to this. That's this law, but I think it's a little technical. Then we received a lot of reports from various organisations that were somewhat concerned. After examining further the law, the explanatory memorandum and the various letters of amendment, I also wondered: what exactly is this law? Is this really a practical change to some of the problems or dilemmas we have in education, such as the drop in apprenticeships? Or is this a system change? That's what most of my questions are about. Mr. Chairman. More than a third of current students are MBO students. It really is a huge group and yet the drop in student numbers is a challenge as the funding is partly linked to the number of pupils. In recent years, we have had a discussion in the Chamber about shrinking in primary education and then shrinking in secondary education. It is therefore logical that secondary vocational education should now be discussed. Also in 2019, the General Court warned that the decline in the number of students will put pressure on the budgets of institutions in the coming years. The Court feared that the falling number of students in the north and east of the country could have an impact on the supply of vocational education. I understand that, too. I'm from the Achterhoek myself. Then you know that many students and students have to cycle to school, while it is very important to have education nearby. The chairman is also from the Achterhoek. So we know the importance of education in the neighbourhood, as well as a number of other colleagues here. Mr. Chairman. The conclusions of this Court of Auditors report were very worrying. Change in the way in which MBO institutions are financed and managed seemed inevitable. This change of law is the practical solution, but there is also another side to it. What we do not understand very well is that scaling up seems to be a solution to the decline in the number of pupils. I heard Mr Beertema ask a number of questions about this, as did Mr Kwint. As far as we are concerned, an important question is whether there is any guarantee that vocational education will remain close throughout the country. Mr. Chairman. I have some of the same questions about drop in pupils as Mr Beertema, because at the same time something else is happening. Universities have huge problems because of the increased number of students. The funding is under enormous pressure. Teachers' workload is enormous. This while you see on the other hand that the decline in the number of students in the MBO is causing other problems. It's hard to reconcile, isn't it? Well, actually, it's very logical to reconcile, but I find it difficult in the context of this discussion. I would like to ask the Minister if she has a vision of where we are going in the coming years. Is this gonna go on like this? Does this influx of students into universities continue and this decline in vocational education continues? What is the solution that we need to offer for this, because we will soon have no more professionally trained people in this country, and that seems to me to be a very serious problem. I do understand that this is a bit out of line with the scope of this bill, but it seems to me to be a very relevant question to keep in mind and deal with. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few practical questions. The bill introduces a professional college. Course institutions in the MBO and parts of aoc's are included in the professional college. Following the legislative change, the VET Act has only two types of MBO institutions. Doesn't this mean that young students have fallen into a kind of tube since the beginning of their secondary education? Isn't that a risk? Students who would like to go to the havo should go to another location and institute, which makes the transition difficult. How does the Minister view that? What are the ways in which the Minister will guarantee equality of opportunity? I also ask this because equality of opportunity is a hugely important condition for good education. I am sure the Minister will agree with me on that. So how do we prevent students from pouring in and then not switching to, for example, the Havo? I also believe that Mr Peters had tabled an amendment on this. I'll study that a little more closely. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to add a point that we have made earlier: the inequality in the number of years of education. In fact, it is rather crooked that students who have to make a very concrete choice for the profession they want to learn have the shortest education. I asked the Minister a few years ago how she looks at an intermediate year, just to give students a little more time to discover what they want, with personal guidance. The Ministry then started working on it. What is the state of play here? Then there are some questions about participation. Now it's getting a bit technical, because the current bill covers institutions of secondary education within a vertical school community, the Works Councils Act and the Vocational Education Act instead of the WMS, the Participation in Schools Act. This puts secondary education institutions within vertical school communities under the same regime as the current MBO institutions. Our question is why the Minister chose to do so. Last week, of course, we also saw the notes of amendment and studied it properly. We saw that a number of cases have been modified. If I understand correctly the last letter of amendment, the rights of the Parents' Council have been strengthened, inter alia by the fact that all the specific rights already conferred by the parental rights of a participation council of a secondary education school under the Law on Participation in Schools are granted to the Parents' Council of a Vertical School Community governed by the Vocational Education Act. I see the minister nodding, so I think we read it right. I do have a question about the explanatory statement accompanying the letter of amendment. It says, and I quote: "If a student council has a right to advice on a particular subject, then so does the parent council." In itself, I understand that. This assumes that as a parent council you do not have more far-reaching rights than as a student council. It'll give you an equal position. But you could turn it around, of course. You could also say that at the moment when a student council has an advisory right, and the parent council has a right of consent under the School Participation Act, you give the student council that right of consent. This strengthens the rights of both sections. I would like to ask the Minister why he has not been elected. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a broader comment about the participation of students and students. Thanks to earlier efforts by the Youth Organisation Vocational Education, which is always doing a good job, and thanks to a little work by GroenLinks and the minister, we call MBO students "students" and no longer "participants" in the law, too. I'm happy about that. That just doesn't mean they get the same treatment as students in higher education. By that, I don't mean the discount card at cafes. We should also do something about that, but I understand that the Minister is not necessarily about that. But we are talking about the legal status and rights of participation. Now, in the past year, the Minister has made a number of proposals to protect the very legal position, but I still wonder how it is possible that there is such a discrepancy. In higher education, there is participation in every section. So the board has a participation board, then you have the faculties with a participation board and then you have the programme with a training committee. We don't formally see that in the MBO. I'd like to ask the Minister how she looks at that. Should we not ensure that there is also formal participation of MBO students in each programme? I also understand that this has not just been settled, and I also understand that it goes a little further than just this bill, but I did like to name it, because this is about participation. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll talk about education. One of the main reasons behind this proposal is the risk of the supply of education in certain regions. The decline in the number of pupils can lead to the disappearance of schools from some regions. This can create great travel distances for students and students. The Minister's solution is to harmonise it in order to improve cooperation. I'm trying to stay a little away from very technical concepts. Mr. Chairman. What we do not understand very well is that scaling up is being presented as a solution to the decline in apprenticeship numbers, which in any case means that the drivers are getting more. I'd like to ask the Minister how she rhymes with the following. Just in the recent past, I was not a Member of Parliament at the time, but Mr Beertema may have already been several scandals at MBO institutions, for example at the ROC Leiden and Amarantis. Several reports have been written about this. They were also about the problems of scaling up and about drivers who went on and on. I'm a little over-expressing myself, because there's been a lot of reports written about it. However, there was broad agreement in the Chamber at the time that we should look forward with too much scaling up. I'd like to ask the Minister if she's prepared to do the same. Are these lessons drawn by the various committees of inquiry included in the drafting of this law? At least that doesn't seem like something to forget. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask what the consequences are for directors and supervisors. What will be the scale of different settings? How does this also relate to the Top Income Standards Act? Will the incomes of directors and supervisors also change? When I look at the Top Income Standards Act, I see that complexity points are counted when an institution is larger or more complex. It also depends on whether you are primary education, MBO or higher education. On the basis of a number of points, you can then end up in a certain scale. What is this bill going to do with the Top Income Standards Act and what are the different drivers going to fall under? Does much change in the position of directors and supervisors? I would also like to ask the Minister which field parties were involved. We have recently been told by various organisations that they were not sufficiently involved. A number of colleagues have already asked questions about this, which I would like to join. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the opinion of the Council of State. It has indicated that retroactive effect for the introduction of funding under the provisions of the Secondary Education Act is acceptable. They note that the basis for this should be further specified, but the Minister chooses not to specify that provision further but to delete it completely. Could she elaborate on that? Mr. Chairman. There is one final point I would like to make about the connection of students with an educational institution. This too is not formally covered by the scope of this bill, but I would like to talk about students with disabilities, because there are still a lot of obstacles for them to take up vocational training. We have talked a number of times with the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education about the age at which students are required to leave secondary special education. We are actually doing a lot of students with disabilities short, because they often cannot continue learning or do not have the right to continue learning. We also know that a lot of them, although they can learn very well, still come home because they cannot attend education. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to make agreements with MBO institutions about these students with disabilities in the future. It also applies, for example, to students who have dyslexia or dyscalculie and who may learn at a different pace and who may need to adapt a number of things. Are there agreements, including vocational training, which might allow these students to take part in the programme or study at a somewhat slower pace? Or perhaps education can be adapted in a different way so that these students also continue to have the right to education, to be educated and to be able to have a job with pride. Mr. Chairman. I think we are now failing a whole group of these students because there is no appropriate education for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	Thank you for your input. We have now walked in on the net speaking time for eight minutes. The next speaker will be Mr De Hoop, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Education must be cheerful, fine and safe, whether in primary education, in higher education or in vocational education. Regional population decline puts the accessibility of vocational education under pressure, as the number of pupils and students is falling. Being able to learn and study wherever you want is of great importance to the Labour Party. In order to continue access to the MBO, this legislative proposal makes a number of adjustments to ensure that the educational offer does not deteriorate or that schools disappear and travel distances increase. The aim of the legislative proposal is to cooperate between these MBO institutions and to improve practical education, vocational training and secondary secondary education. That's a good goal. But it's a bill with hooks and eyes attached. This leads to the Labour Party having a lot of questions about the consequences of this bill. A local school choice. MBO institutions often have a regional character, while practice schools, vmbo schools and mavos usually have a local function or a city function. That is why there are concerns about mergers, as we can already see in the MBO, that cover entire provinces. So where do we guarantee local school choice? What prevents vertical school communities from merging locations, so that travel times are out of control and young people are virtually unable to receive training in their own region? Much has already been said about participation. The transition from the Law on Participation in Schools to the Law on Works Councils causes pupils, parents and staff to have less participation. The Labour Party wants to ensure participation for those who are really involved. Can the Minister reflect on the loss of consent to school plans and school regulations? Can it also reflect on the further implications of the transition from the WMS to the WOR? The issue of equality of opportunity was also mentioned, among other things, by my colleague from GroenLinks. Look, although vertical school communities undoubtedly bring organisational benefits, we also need to look at what it does with equality of opportunity. My fear is... we're putting students of 12 in a streamlined professional column... you can even see it as a kind of tunnel... and in a route that should eventually lead to a job, a very nice job. But what if some of those 12-year-olds can go to another level? Aren't they stuck in the benefits of the system and not of themselves? This approach does not correspond to what the Education Council is advocating, namely for future selection and better differentiation. It is important to give all these children time to develop in their own way. Has the Minister also received the signals that there are wishes to involve havo/vwo schools in the vertical school communities? I am thinking, among other things, of the CDA and D66 amendments. Is it a justified fear that this creates learning factories that are undesirable, given the large differences in organization, assignment, age, scale, financing, housing etc.? Can the Minister say that this cannot be the purpose of the legislation? There are a large number of amendments which also provide guarantees for the concerns of the Labour Party and which, on the contrary, sometimes strengthen them. So we are very curious about the Minister's appreciation. The core of the Labour Party today is that it is very important that the organisational benefits of this law do not outweigh the equality of opportunity of pupils. Each child deserves the time and space to develop in its own way and at its own pace. That can't be different in a region than in the Randstad. So we are very curious about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr Van Meenen. He will speak on behalf of the Democrats 66. Go ahead, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been said by a number of colleagues, actually by everyone, that we have beautiful vocational education in the Netherlands. The corona crisis has confirmed once again that the Netherlands is also really relying on our professionals. I am glad that we are able to talk about this beautiful sector again today. Mr. Chairman. A number of years ago, my group fought a great battle to get green education to OCW. It worked, actually. I am glad that we are actually establishing the final piece here, namely harmonization with other education. A good moment! Compliments for how that was designed! But we also have some concerns about this law, because it has become much bigger than just this point. Firstly, I want to talk about the vertical school community. At present, the bill only makes it possible to form a vertical school community between MBO and VMBO, but not between MBO and HAVO and VWO and between MBO and broad school communities and finally between MBO and multiple schools of the same school type. The Minister states that the VO Council has indicated that there is no interest in allowing havo and vwo within such a vertical school community. But at the same time she says that there is a need for the MBO sector. The question is, of course, whether there is a need for students and students. Our proposal is just to make it possible. Then we will see where that need is, because it is ultimately up to the schools themselves to decide whether they want to form that vertical school community. My group says: give them room to realize that. For example, in the past, combinations of mbo and havo have produced very good professionals in the care sector. There's also a relationship with shrinkage; we've been talking about it for a while. The Minister wants to deal with the negative effects of shrinkage with this bill. I'm still not quite sure how the bill achieves that. In many shrinking areas there are many more broad school communities than categoral schools. D66, together with the CDA, is therefore tabling an amendment which makes it possible to form vertical school communities between MBOs and broad school communities. I wonder how the Minister assesses that proposal. I would also like to hear from the Minister how this bill is actually making a further contribution to dealing with shrinkage at the moment. Then equal opportunities. Although D66 sees the benefits of vertical school communities, I still have doubts as to whether the vertical school community as proposed today also promotes equality of opportunity. You've heard me before about the shufflebox in secondary school. By placing children from 12 years old in a professional column and then in a narrow vertical school community, so with only vmbo and mbo, I get the impression that that shufflebox is taken from the attic again. My question is how the Minister sees this. Would it be possible to add the possibility of allowing large school communities to take away this danger again? Then we can carry out the whole discussion on how the whole of secondary education should look like after that, and we certainly should. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the question of participation, on which many sensible things have already been said. I'm worried about the way it's anchored in the bill. I have received signals that the role of parents, pupils and staff will become more limited because the part of the vertical school community will be covered by the WOR instead of the WMS. All kinds of proposals have been made to further improve this. I see that in the third and fourth letters of amendment, but I really have my doubts as to whether those changes to the law are enough. That is why I ask the Minister how she will ensure that parents, pupils and staff do not lose their say. Is she going to talk to the field to see where they think the bottlenecks are in this bill? And what can we learn from schools that are already physically part of a vertical school community? Helicon, where I have been on my school trip, for example, has arranged it to everyone's satisfaction. Mr. Chairman. Then special education. As far as I am concerned, it has been raised a little too little, but at the moment we seem to have only MBO institutions that fall into the category of special education. This means that students at levels 1 and 2 must respect the basis of the school but at levels 3 and 4 they must endorse that basis. I really do not think that is desirable. After all, there should be no barriers to vocational training. D66 therefore considers that it should be regulated for students at levels 3 and 4 in the same way as at levels 1 and 2. How does the Minister view that? She also seems to have an opinion on this in her reply, but I would like to hear it again here. Mr Kwint has tabled a number of interesting amendments. That was a point of discussion with Mr Bishop. In fact, these amendments say that there will be an acceptance requirement for vo within the vertical school community. I thought it was an interesting discussion, because Mr Bishop really wants to have that discussion in full width of secondary education, i.e. with an opinion from the Council of State and so on. There really is a special exception for this category of schools. They are going to connect with non-public secondary vocational education. We'll have to find a way out of that. In fact, I see no objection to doing so at the moment, especially since we have already agreed with each other that the MBO should be freely accessible. In any case, I wonder how that relates to the special character of most MBOs. Mr. Chairman. As you hear, I have a few more questions. I'm hoping for some good answers. I have no doubt the Minister will give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	I believe that Mr De Hoop wishes to make another interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr Van Meenen and I share the same concerns about equality of opportunity. He calls it a shufflebox, we often call it an obstacle course that should become a springboard. His solution in the amendment with the CDA is to add the Havo. But that leather factory is actually getting bigger. Do you see that as the ideal solution? I am thinking of the factors involved, for example in the organisation and in the life stage. Is this the ideal solution? Isn't it just extra risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Let's be. The rocks are big institutions. They already are; this law is not going to change that very much. The foreschools are compared with very small institutions. It is already a leather factory; it will not be through this merger. Moreover, I do not expect a vo-school that is administratively committed to such a vertical school community to become part of that larger roc. The people in the country will notice very little of that. It is much more the back office: behind the scenes something is arranged to guarantee the support for the entire organisation's survival. I am really very critical of the creation of large leather factories, but in this case I do not see that risk. When the merger test came in, the porridge had already been deposited. Prior to the merger test 95% of mergers had already taken place. Those are the very big boards from now on. After the test, we may have been able to adjust a bit here and there. However, in this context I see a small thing, a vo-school or a section of it, along with an already large institution. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	I can go with Mr Van Meenen in part. I do share what he says, but especially in those regions, vo-schools are often of a decent scale. I can imagine that, in terms of organisation and assignment, it is difficult, but I am curious to hear the Minister's response. We want the same thing. I am not convinced that Peters and Van Meenen's motion will make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	It has just emerged from the debate with Mr Bertema. We must also be careful that it is an academic solution which exists in the Hague reality, but which is completely absent in the reality of the shrinkage area. By far the majority of schools in the shrinkage areas are already large schools. And that is the result of the fact that there the shrinkage has already hit so much that all the small clues have gone together in one school building. If a high school with vmbo, havo and vwo is maintained in one school building with great pain and difficulty, then I do not think it is a practical solution to say: only the Vmbo department can become part of a vertical school community. Then you're making the problem bigger than smaller. Let's really see if what we're doing here has any real meaning. We must not stand in the way of the solutions to be found by idealistic images.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you for your answer. You were already done with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	Do I actually have to wear a mouth cap for the walk back to my place? I don't remember, so I'm just gonna do it before I get kicked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	Very good. The last speaker from the Chamber will be Mr Bishop. He speaks on behalf of the Reformed Party. In the meantime we have already ten minutes walked in on the net speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	Thank you for your careful accounting and time monitoring, Mr. Chairman. Harmonisation in vocational education, of course, that sounds good. When it comes to harmony and harmonious living together, my heart always starts to beat faster. A harmony can also give a nice performance. Well, of course, the SGP likes to play along with that. But I would like to start by making a critical remark. That's not meant to be a dissonant, it's meant to keep focus. Despite the commitment to harmonisation, administrative complexity seems to increase further in all honesty. There were already many integrated routes vmbo-mbo. Recently, the Chamber discussed a proposal on co-operation colleges. And now there is another plan for vocational colleges and vertical school communities. Are the coherence and the overview still sufficient, not only on the drawing table, where you can put all this neatly side by side, but also in practice? I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on that. I would find it disappointing if the answer were to be: yes, that overview is still available. I'd like to hear something more. The SGP aims to support the formation of vertical school communities of secondary education and vocational education if this solves problems. The proposal raises two important substantive questions. First of all, why are we going to force schools to split up a school type in order to form a vertical school community? Isn't that contrary to recent policies and recent legislation? The SGP sympathizes with the amendment that also allows for broad school communities to be eligible. A second point is that the government limits a vertical school community to one institution with one school. Is that logical and fair in a field of about 60 mbo institutions and 650 vo-schools, where most schools can fish behind the net? Is it true that, strictly speaking, the text of the bill does not exclude the possibility for institutions with several schools to form separate vertical school communities? I'd like a response to that. As far as participation is concerned, the legislative proposal continues to raise important questions. The notes of amendment have repaired the necessary, but in important areas, such as lifting, entering into cooperation and changing the basis, parents have a different position in a vertical school community. The SGP understands that the government refers to the current situation in agricultural training. At the same time, we are opting for a broadening of practice. That must be a reason to think a little more critically and systematically and at least to do more research on how we really want to shape this now, so that it is the best of the future and gets a little less string. We are getting more and more situations in which similar schools operate with different regulations. The SGP does not find a conscious choice of shared participation to be strange in itself. After all, practice shows that more tailor-made work for staff, parents and pupils is desirable. The specific question is: should this legislative proposal not be the reason to at least examine whether participation in secondary education should perhaps go all the way along this path? The regulation of the bill is not structurally satisfactory. I'm considering a motion on this point. When it comes to mergers, the legislation does not seem completely clear and complete. The bill calls the transfer of a school a transfer of administration, while in primary education it is called an administrative merger. Isn't clarity of terms desirable in order to avoid confusion as much as possible? I'd like an explanation of that. In addition, not all mergers seem to be regulated. The law has the institutional merger of schools and also the transfer of a school to another competent authority, but why is the administrative merger not regulated within the meaning of the association of legal persons? In the report, the SGP asked whether double functions of drivers could be avoided. The government states that dual functions are not the intention, but it does not want to regulate them further. I note that other practices have indeed taken place in the past. That is why we are trying to do so with the amendment to item No. 12 to be excluded. Mr President, then the role of public education. The SGP understands that the government is actually assuming the situation as it is now in the practice of secondary vocational education. But that should not cloud the legal standard. In our view, the government is going through a very short turn of events by saying that the duty of care for adequate public education does not apply to secondary vocational education. This is at least a border case, just because the age of pupils overlaps with secondary education. Does the Minister recognise that the government must be alert to any need for public institutions? With a wink to the colleagues, I say that I, as a Member of the European Parliament, hear myself pleading for attention to public education. That has everything to do with the freedom of education. That dual system we have must be embraced and nurtured. In addition, I wonder whether the law is sufficiently structured and prepared for a competent authority that provides public and special education. In primary education, the co-operative board is neatly organized. Why is that missing here? Is the government still picking that up? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a preliminary conclusion with some heartache, because the idea behind this bill is indeed borne by us. The SGP still keeps the feeling that the bill is not fully crystallized, is not fully ripe. The field of education is also not entirely unambiguous. There are still some open ends, some of which I have outlined. I would say: let us keep this legislative proposal for a while and first come up with a more detailed approach on key issues. The thinkline is good, but the score is not quite finished, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	Thank you for your input, but there is another interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	I wondered how Mr Bishop looked at the fact that in the MBO students at levels 1 and 2 are supposed to respect the basis and to endorse it at levels 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	If you strictly reason from the freedom of education, then it is a wondrous distinction. Also at levels 1 and 2 you should actually ask that students and parents endorse the basis. A kind of compromise has apparently been reached at some point in the history of law. I'll just have to correct the image a little bit. In secondary and primary education, the basis must be endorsed. This has to do with the fact that there are all kinds of schools of all kinds of flavors and colors, including, for example, reformatorial education. This does not apply one-on-one to MBO, vocational education. If there is a school or an education of which there is no other, then that school is also obliged to admit those students. So that's a lot more thought from shrinkage and scale and stuff like that. I would be extremely sorry if the line we have so far, which in itself is very satisfactory and has been working satisfactorily for a very long time, were to be tangled and if it were to be demolished. I don't think we should. In fact, it removes something from our own education system, freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	I don't think this is the place to fully deepen that freedom of education. There are undoubtedly other opportunities for this. But it's on the table here anyway. Another difference between basic and secondary vocational education is, of course, that there is a real public offer in basic education. I understand the words of Mr Bishop, his plea for an offer in the MBO of public education, really as a defensive from his point of view. Because it's not here right now. So that means that we basically have unaccessible MBO settings. Thus, according to Mr Bishop, you must actively endorse an identity in order to be admitted. That's actually his ideal. But that can only happen if there is universal access to education, and there is no such thing. There's not gonna be any. There's too much offer rather than too little. That's why we're here, because we're talking about shrinkage. My question to Mr Bishop is very specific: is it not time to say that, with the law governing the accessibility of the MBO in mind, the MBO becomes generally accessible? In other words, should there not be an acceptance obligation for the MBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	I dispute a little that my attention to public education would come from a defensive reaction. It cannot be unknown to Mr Van Meenen that at other times we have been in favour of the position of public education. Why do we do that? This is not from defence, but from the desire to nurture the present system which is socially anchored and in which the government performs the safety net function. We also note that this is not the case in the MBO. That is why our plea is: Minister, take a good look at it; should we not do something about it? As a government, don't you fail in the offer when you say that's not our territory? I'd be sparing on that freedom of education. This freedom of education may affect, in the short term, the reformatorical schools, for example, when it comes to admission of pupils and so on, but it also affects many more denominations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	Yeah, really rounding up. Then I'm sure we'll come back to it later. For those of you who are following this. I am also thriving on the freedom of education. My only point is, he fell into the wrong hands. The freedom of education has become a freedom of directors to refuse students and students. The original freedom of education was a freedom of parents, and therefore also of students and students. That's what freedom of education has to go back to. If that happens, there will be an acceptance obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	Finally, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	Finally. I think that a bit of a contradiction is being created here that is historically unworkable. Those parents chose to start a school. They had their religious or philosophical ideals for that. By definition, that meant an admission policy. But I am sure we will discuss that again later. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	That will certainly be the case. We are now going to suspend for a moment so that the Minister can prepare her response and give an opinion on the eight amendments that are still before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law on Administrative Harmonisation in Vocational Education. We need the first term from the government. I call the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad we can talk about this bill tonight. I understand very well that your Chamber asked for a little more time last week when we submitted a note of amendment at the last minute. For the record, I thought it was nice that we did. I had hoped to be able to send that letter of amendment at another time, just before the debate, because I thought that if I were to announce in the debate that we could do that, we would not know what we are talking about. But again excuse for the late moment and glad we can talk about it now! We will be discussing participation in detail later, and that is rather complicated. I can therefore imagine that it took some time. Mr. Chairman. I can imagine the feeling that Mr Peters had, very well, because I had a bit of that myself. I also thought: this is quite a technical legislative proposal, the scope of which is not that great. Moreover, it is a logical conclusion to a process that we have initiated. There will then be a number of questions, but at the same time I see that you can apparently use such a bill as a hook to re-enact about every discussion in education. If you don't mind, on this lovely evening, I'd like to focus a little bit on what this bill is really about. Mr. Chairman. The main reason for this bill is the falling numbers of pupils and students in VMBO and MBO. We want to avoid the situation that in some regions there is no longer an accessible, efficient and high-quality educational offer in vocational education. In order to anticipate this, the bill gives schools in secondary education and MBO institutions better and wider opportunities for cooperation. We have been working on this pooling of powers between MBO institutions for some time now. You have already received a number of proposals on this subject from me. But cooperation between MBO and secondary education is also necessary in order to maintain a good supply of vocational education in all these regions. We are doing this in the interests of the student and the student who, as Mrs Kuik said so beautifully, should be able to go to education at moped distance. Secondly, I think it is also good to mention it here, because it is linked to the vitality of many regions. On the one hand, you want sufficient vocational education in shrinking regions, and on the other hand, we know that vital vocational education in a region can also be a driving force for economic development and the vitality of business. I will come back to Mr El Yassini's questions later, but that is why cooperation with local businesses and anticipating the demand there are so important in the region. The committee that reviews the quality agreements in the MBO is therefore also very closely assessing whether this cooperation with the partners in the region has been established. Is one good at talking to one another? I think that is incredibly important and let us not forget that. So it goes both ways. We want to ensure that we provide students and students with accessible education, and on the other hand we want to continue to drive regional economic development. The second reason for this proposal is, of course, green education. Mr Van Meenen pointed out that this was transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of OCW at the beginning of this cabinet period. We wanted to see if we could harmonise that green education with the rest of vocational education. Why is that important? Why do you have to do that? If you do not, you will continue to deal with different funding rules for the green sector. That leads to confusion and also to discontent. With this legislative proposal, therefore, we are harmonising the latter differences, also because through this harmonisation we can ensure that green education is well anchored in vocational education and can work together in a good way. It's good to mention here what we're doing with this bill. It contains three important measures. One. Vocational institutions and the mbo-part of the aoc's become a new type of institution: the professional college. This will therefore require clear legislation and harmonisation of funding. The same rules apply to both types of institutions. It is about 18 specialist institutions and aoc's at the moment, just to paint the picture. Secondly, the creation of a vertical school community, consisting of an MBO institution and one or more vocational schools, will be made possible again. A vertical school community makes the MBO institution and the vocational schools an organizational unit. This gives the board more tools to see the organization of vocational education in the region in conjunction. Mr Beertema pointed out, and this is important, that you simply want to have the best equipment if you want state of the art vocational education, where you can respond well to innovation in business, for example. Then you want to be able to have the latest new things, so students immediately have the expertise they need. Then it's up-to-date. It's pretty expensive sometimes. Then it is very nice to be able to ensure that the same facilities can be used both in secondary education and in secondary vocational education. This also applies to making vocational education attractive. We all know how difficult and difficult it is sometimes, especially in the technical vmbo, to keep that really attractive, to keep that state of the art. That's what the cabinet invested extra money in. However, this legislative proposal will increase these possibilities by allowing better cooperation. It can also, of course, increase its attractiveness. That is why I think that is essential and important. Finally, the transfer of management will be without prejudice to individuality. It's a transfer of government, but the schools that were there remain the schools that were there. Let's be clear about that. That's just how the MBO gets attractive in my opinion. The advantage of a transfer of management is that MBO institutions can retain their individuality and at the same time have more opportunities to share costs and infrastructure. That's important. I would also like to stress here. I heard some of you say the word "fusion"..... that this bill does not reduce the bar to merge, in any way. Mergers, both intersectoral and within the MBO, in all cases require and continue to require the Minister's consent. I am very pleased that Mr Beertema said that he has every confidence in the Minister on that point. I will continue to look critically at this. This way you avoid a type of scaling up in regions where that doesn't add anything for students and students. We always have that test. Many of you asked: does this not allow too much scaling? It's not a merger. Schools retain their individuality. If people really want to merge, we always keep a grip on that. Anticipating declining numbers of pupils and students is, of course, always the primary responsibility of school authorities and their regional partners. We are also very much in conversation with them about this. But with this bill, governments will have several opportunities to face this challenge. Mr. Bishop said you'd have all kinds of different variants. Yeah, that's complicated sometimes. I do not feel that we are adding a great deal of complexity here, because we are harmonising with the rest. This is about regulation about how to work together. We like to keep regulation simple, but in the end the goal is always to meet reality as well as possible and do what is needed. That's what we're trying to do here. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words about that third and fourth letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	May I interrupt you for a moment? I believe that Mr Bishop would like to place another interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	In fact, on the previous point, on the administrative merger or on the transfer of management. When I read the explanatory statement, those concepts seem to be synonyms. But when I listen to the Minister's explanation, they are two distinct forms of cooperation. What's the deal with that, exactly? Because in the explanatory statement I read literally that there are some options, two ways: "first by means of a board assignment (now called administrative merger)."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	What we make possible here is transfer of management without administrative merger. Excuse me: without institutional merger. So you keep the institutions, but it comes under the responsibility of one VSG.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	Does this terminology perhaps need a more detailed and clear explanation? Because it does raise the necessary questions. As you say now, it is clear, but I did not read that in the explanatory statement. Maybe a fifth letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	Well, I didn't want to. Fortunately, the Acts are always an integral part of the history of law. I think we've had a very clear exchange here. I've also looked very carefully to see if the field understands what we want. This showed that it is very well understood there. But it's nice that we could change this here for a while. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of participation and the letter of amendment on that point. We have tabled this letter of amendment because a number of legitimate concerns were raised by a number of unions and parent organisations. Those concerns have also been extensively ventilated to your Room. In the letter of amendment, we wanted to address the concerns about the position of the parents. The system that we choose to use, I'm going to explain to you in a moment why we did it so well from the WEB and the WOR works slightly differently from the WMS. We've guarded the parents' control in that as much as it makes sense. However, we have also chosen that the parents' council in the vertical school community should not be given more rights than the student council. Why did we do that? Because in such a vertical school community, MBO students are the largest group and in recent years I have worked with great conviction to strengthen the position of the student in the MBO, to give that student the position that it deserves and to strengthen that student's control. I wouldn't want that student's parents suddenly to have more control. I don't think that fits in with the way we look at MBO students. It may not be quite the right word, but I would find it a little patronizing towards that student if I'm being honest: since we're now making a vertical school community, your parents suddenly have more rights than you do. Well, you could say... I don't know if it was Mr Kwint, Mrs Westerveld or anyone else, perhaps it was Mr Bishop too, excuse me, who said: you could have done it in such a way that you would also give the student more rights. I have just told you that we are dealing with 18 professional institutions and aocs that we already have and where this situation already exists. That is where this participation already exists. We have also looked at the following. We want to make a number of arrangements with this bill, but we want to make as little as possible a major system change. A number of parties ask: just keep it to the core, don't make it all too big, don't make too big changes. That's what we've been trying to do. With the letter of amendment, I believe that I have done the best I can to ensure that participation for students, parents and staff is as good as possible and to create something new as little as possible from the current situation. Any of you who say... I, too, have tried to put it all together in schematics and tables. This led me to conclude that some of you also had that question: it is very difficult to compare participation in the MBO and the WMS, and I am not talking about higher education. These are different systems, which have grown so historically and have different arguments. It certainly goes far too far for a outgoing minister, but it seems to me to be a very sensible exercise to explore: how has it all grown so much, where are the advantages and disadvantages, where are the differences justified and where are the wrong ones, why do we make our lives so complex and where can it be easier? I think it would be useful to compare that and see how we can make it simpler, more unambiguous, so that you do not get to deal with a completely different way of participation every time you go to another type of education. How can we do that better? 'Cause it's gotten really complicated. I would... with your permission, I'm going to ask my officials: go see how you could do such a reconnaissance in a good way, and then at the beginning of a next cabinet it should be decided whether you're going to go through with it. I understand every single one of you who's said, "God, this is complicated." We have tried to stay as close as possible to the current situation with as few changes as possible and to guarantee rights for everyone as much as possible. We tried to do the best we could. Is it exactly the same, particularly as regards the position of the parents? No, it's not. But after all the efforts we've made, which I'm really proud of, to strengthen the student's position, we shouldn't suddenly say, "Now your parents are going to have more to say." I do not think that is appropriate at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	I fully agree with the Minister that we have made it rather complicated. Moreover, I think that an exploration can already be started in a missionary state. Now that, in an earlier debate, I have not managed to plunder this Ministry's investigative ad, it may still be possible to set something in motion for that. When it comes to participation regimes, the Minister says: we have chosen it and we would find it crazy if the parents of students had more participation, influence, participation than the students. But when it comes to the possibility which I believe Mrs Westerveld has to offer, namely to raise the level of participation of students, the Minister says: I want to change as little as possible. I might have understood that if it were only those 18 green courses, but this law has, of course, become wider. This law also specifically aims to address a challenge such as shrinkage and promote vertical school communities more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	If you were to extend the scope of the law, it would be more logical to regulate participation a little better and to opt for the highest level of participation, so to speak, than for a slightly lower level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	I just tried to explain why we didn't make that choice, even if it's a real question. Because then what you do is you create two different participatory regimes for the MBO. I think that's a little crazy in a galaxy. In the current situation, 18 institutions are then confronted with one regime and some with another. Moreover, we have received no complaints from these 18 institutions that it would work badly. If that had been the case, perhaps we should have looked at it. However, in balancing the best possible regulation for everyone, trying to preserve and strengthen rights, but destroying as few things in the system as possible that are not necessary, I think this is the right balance. Of course, it's everyone's right to think differently, but I'll tell you my consideration. If we do it differently, then the complexity will become a reality, and it is already a major factor in the participation process. So that's why I'm considering it, and that's why I'm going to come back to the amendments that I... well, you understand where I'm going when it comes to your amendment. I hope you will follow my reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	Following the reasoning is not the problem. In fact, I think it is quite good how clearly the Minister explains this on such a complex subject. I'm just wondering if it's a smart trade-off. In any case, you have to choose between conflicting and overlapping participatory regimes. This is inherent in merging two types of school for which these different participatory regimes apply. If you do that in a law that wants to make it possible for more of those schools to come, then I think it would be wise to opt for the highest level of participation and indeed to take it for granted that there is another regime in that part of the MBO of the vertical school community than in the other MBOs, precisely in the interest of the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	I explained it to you. Then we're gonna repeat ourselves. I do not think you should make a major change in the system of this rather clear legislative proposal. I'd like to really start that exploration, because I understand everyone who says it's complicated, but we shouldn't overdo it now. So I'm really appealing to you, and let's take a very good look at what this bill was all about and what exactly we want to settle. Let's not make things too complicated for all of us, because sometimes that's enough. Mr. Chairman. In this context, some of you mentioned the letters you received, which I have also seen, which say that parties feel too little involved in the drafting of this bill. I gotta tell you, it really hit me when I read that, 'cause I thought, "How is that possible?" This bill has been submitted for consultation. Some of the comments made in that letter were not made at the time. Discussions have been held with the parties concerned. At that time, a number of comments from the letter were not made. Moreover, I see signatories under the letter which I have seen on the screen almost weekly in the circumstances of the past year. At that time there was every opportunity to say: Minister, we can talk to you again about that bill, because we still have substantial objections to it. That there is a difference of opinion on the substance of things may be. But that there has not been an opportunity for sufficient involvement and consultation, I firmly believe. I can almost dream the faces of those involved on my screen. I think I have addressed the most important questions about participation. I'll see if I miss things, but I don't think that's the case. Mr Beertema and I think Mr Kwint also asked what this means for the collective agreement. The collective agreement is for employers and employees. That's not up to us. I shall come back to Mr Bertema's area of competence later. That is the question of participation. Then there was another very interesting theme, which we can make very large and very small tonight. I wanted to make it a little small, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. That is the discussion on Article 23. I understand that this proposal will allow you to have all kinds of discussions about this, but I do not think that we should discuss it entirely tonight. I think there is also a debate on Article 23 on the role in the Chamber. There's every opportunity to do that. The point Mr Kwint refers to in his amendment on the Vo is quite a theoretical one. I can see the other point. That is the difference in respecting or endorsing the basis between levels 1, 2, 3 and 4. If you find accessibility important and you have a different regime for example for the MBO student who flows from level 2 to 3 or for the student who goes straight to level 3, you really want to do so at the same institution. I will come back to that very specifically later, but I think that is a crazy distinction. We shouldn't want that with each other. Given the very limited scope it has in this legislative proposal, I believe that we can regulate that in this legislative proposal. But the whole debate on the accessibility of the vo must be held elsewhere. We really should not impose any burden on the handling of this bill. Moreover, I think that your Chamber should realize that if Mr Kwint's amendment were to be put to the vote at these schools, I would have to ask the Council of State for its opinion before the vote, because that is a matter of great concern to the Constitutional Court. That means that the vote on the bill would be delayed. That can be quite decent, which I don't think is desirable. When I hear the debate like that, I would like to appeal to Mr Kwint. It is very good that he wants to discuss Article 23 and its scope, but perhaps not within the framework of this legislative proposal. Let us not let this stop the decision-making process. I'd really regret that, but in the end it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	I get that. I will indeed think about this very carefully, because I do not feel like doing any kind of legal obstruction. That is not the intention of this proposal, but I do not understand it very well. The two amendments as they stand are actually in reverse. One regulates the flow from one side to the other side of the vertical school community and the other does it the other way around. I do not understand why the scope of one would go too far for this debate and not the other. I'm not trying to destroy your positive words about my one amendment, but I'm really trying to understand. The amendment specifically states that it concerns the situation of the vertical school communities, and we make it quite explicit that it is not the intention to set a kind of broader precedent. I just don't see the concern that's necessary. Maybe the Minister can take me with him. I hear 'then we have to go to the Council of State', but I'm just not convinced of that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	I've had lawyers convince me of that. It is good that this is happening in this debate. Mr Bishop clearly explained why. We don't know anything public, but we only know a very special MBO. That's why there's really a difference why you're taking care of this for the MBO and not for the Vo, because wherever a vsg arises, you always have public secondary education. That's always accessible, maybe not in the U.S., but it's there. There's always that choice. I think that is a real difference. I was really very pleased with Mr Bishop's comments on this, because that is a valid point. One of the broader questions behind this bill, of course, also has to do with the history of the MBO. They're all special institutions. The broader question of how to ensure broad access to MBOs everywhere is a question that we need to take up with each other. By the way, I can see that everywhere is actually going well at the moment. In my view, there are two institutions where this selection is still taking place. So the issue is not very big, but there really is the essential difference. That is why I say about your one amendment, which I think makes sense in the context of this legislative proposal. I can follow its reasoning. If you walk through education with a student in a manner of speaking, you run into something that you think is really crazy right now. But the opposite is really less going on. Hence my urgent appeal to you: do not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	Minister, may I interrupt you for a moment? We are talking about two amendments: the amendment on item No. 20 and the amendment to item No. 22. Does your comment on the Council of State mean that in this debate you are also not giving an opinion on the amendment to item No. 20?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	Then I'll have to check the records.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	The amendment in part No. 20 is about an acceptance obligation for special institutions which are part of a vertical school community.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	Yeah, that's about the vo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	No, I think that is the amendment to item No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 22 the Minister is less enthusiastic. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 20 still has to bend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	Let's do it right now. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 22 I will not judge, but I do make an urgent appeal to Mr Kwint to withdraw it. If that does not happen, I will seek advice from the Council of State. The amendment in part No. 20, while we're there, we're gonna get judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	I shall go through the amendments later. Many of the amendments are very much in line with what I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr El Yassini has another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	Yeah, specifically at this point. I am convinced by the Minister, but I think it is good for the whole Chamber to get that information, so that we really know what is specifically the objection from the legal basis as regards the difference between the MBO and the VOT. The minister just said, "I've been persuaded by our lawyers." Is it possible that she might still send that part of the information to the Chamber, the part on which she bases her arguments in order to discourage the amendment? Then the Chamber can see exactly where the biggest difference lies between secondary education and MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	It was a question from Mr Bishop, but if it were for your consideration... It is really important that you take a very close look at this before the votes. I'd be happy to put that in a compact note. That is actually nice and that also fits the way we work. It seems to me to be a good suggestion to share with you all the considerations that the lawyers have shared with me. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of the breadth of those vertical school communities and whether havo and vwo can also belong to them. I understand the question very well. I'll explain the dilemma we had there. I can very well follow the story that Mr Beertema mentioned, but also the story of Mr Van Meenen's shuffler. Mr De Hoop and Mr Peters also had a reasoning that I can follow. On the one hand, we have focused very much on the question of how we could address a number of issues without making it all too big. How can we optimise cooperation in this professional column? "Optimising" is actually a very bad word here, because that sounds like efficiency again, but I mean cooperation to create quality vocational education. I understand that reasoning. I also understand the people who say: yes, but it is precisely in those shrinking areas that you will also have those broad school communities, which means that you will have to split off first. Or: you will also have to make a very early choice; if there will hopefully have more broad bridge classes, there will also be something wringing. In that dilemma, the dime was the other way around when we wrote this bill: let's not make it all too big. I hear a number of you saying that, but I can also follow that other reasoning very well. I can very well follow the stories of your Chamber in that, so I can also follow that amendment in part No. 13 gets judgment room. These are typical of those considerations, where you are dealing with the dilemma all the time and you drop it in one direction at a time, but it can also fall the other way. There are also good arguments for this, for example for the VMBO student who wants to go to the havo, for the small group now havists who go to the mbo. But I think that there can also be a lot of havolatians very happy and maybe even very well in place in the MBO, because they can live in a beautiful profession there and excel in it. That's so beautiful. Maybe it would be nice if we could see that side more. This is partly also an answer to the question put by Mr Beertema earlier. So, all in all, I can very well follow your considerations in this regard. Mr Peters had the following question: does the Minister say that one MBO institution with a single school could go together in a vertical school community; should there not be any more? We have also said: one, otherwise it will all be very large. More than one can do, but then those vo-schools have to merge first. That way we can do it. You are asking me whether this will work properly and whether I can evaluate it after a year. I agree with you that it is important that we look very closely at whether this is going to work properly. But I think that evaluation in a year's time is too early, because after the first year that we have the law in force, perhaps not so much has happened outside the harmonization of the professional institutions and the aocs. So I wonder what I'm actually going to see after a year. So I think we should take a little more time. The law says five years; I'd be happy to come out with you in three years. So much for the width of the vsg. Mr El Yassini also made a number of comments on macro-efficiency. I know that's a subject that's very important to him. Although we sometimes think differently in a number of areas, I very much agree with him that there is a great importance for the MBO to fit well with that regional business, to move well and indeed to look forward. Because the fact that your students have found a place on the labour market in the past doesn't mean that they will in the future. The discussion about macro-efficiency is always very complex. It's never cut with scissors. And fortunately, we are increasingly seeing that people sit down with regional partners in a very good way. That is also a very important point in my agenda. You had a number of questions about the reports on the effectiveness of economic and administrative MBO training. You're absolutely right. Those partial reports were sent to the Chamber. The committee has now also offered me an additional opinion, and I will send it as soon as possible, but at least before you deal with the budget, with my response to the Chamber. On the basis of this opinion, we are talking to different regions: how can we improve economic and administrative training in terms of efficiency and labour market prospects? In doing so, we focus on two things, because we do see that young people with these training courses make a positive choice for education. We have to look very closely at the outflow profiles. You yourself mentioned ICT, for example. We are already seeing combinations of economic and administrative training with ICT training, where the outflow profile can greatly improve. But we also need to look much more closely at the flow to the HBO. Are we doing the right thing for that? So we are talking to a number of regions to make real improvements. The same conversation we have with the HBO, because there is actually a bit of the same going on. That's what you have to do in conjunction. So that's what we're doing. I also agree with you on the 12 hours standard. This also has to do with how we register unemployment in this country. That's where the norm comes from. But I very much agree with you that we really need to find a different standard for this. I have already had the discussion on this with the Commission on macro-efficiency. Actually, you'd like it to be clear what chance your training offers you. It may then be less relevant if it is in the same field, because some of it is very complex, and the labour market is also changing. But can you be economically independent with your education? 'Cause that's what you want everyone to do. If you get out of college and go into the labour market, are you gonna be able to keep your own pants on? Yes, Mr El Yassini is now doing this very graphically. I would like to discuss this with the Commission on macro-efficiency. Can't we change that in your rules so that it becomes the norm and we're gonna watch it? I think that's the most important thing. That's what you want to offer young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	The Minister and I have often had enough discussions and debates on this subject, where we often had a different perspective. But I am very happy to hear in the Minister's reply what focus she wants to put. I think that's very good, too. I would just like to say that since the last debate on macro-efficiency with the MBO Artists, the SBB has also taken enormous steps in improving labour market prospects and the way in which macro-efficiency is being addressed. So I'm very proud of the SBB. That needs to be mentioned. But I would like to ask the Minister the following. I'm totally glad she says, "Let's not look at that 12 hours a week standard, but at the question of keeping your pants up." But let us also see to what extent it is possible to work within the professional domain. Again, if you do an education and work somewhere else, that's not bad at all, but we see in the partial reports that the economic and administrative part is way behind the average of the MBO. This average is 67% and in some cases it is only 43% for the administrative professions. The question to the Minister is whether she can zoom in on this in the discussion with the Commission on macro-efficiency. Because of course it is good that you offer the possibility of moving to higher education, but we also want to train professionals in the MBO who work in their own profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	Your point is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	We also have a difference of opinion here and there, but I very much agree with you on this point. This is where the professional perspective has to really get better. We owe that to those young people. In my response, which is coming this autumn, I will certainly take that with me. I think this is extremely important. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to a number of smaller subjects. Mr El Yassini had a justified question about the Ad. I understand your question as follows. What you don't want is for the Ad to enter the vertical school community, because then you would have to build it differently administratively. But what you do want, in my opinion, is for young people entering VBO and following an MBO course to get a connection to the Ad. That's what happens to Saxion in part. In fact, you would like to outline that perspective for that student in secondary education. Then you have to be able to work together very well in that column. Because for a number of vocational trainings, Ad is also a kind of cherry on the cake, because it allows you to go into your profession and excel in it even further. I would therefore like to see whether we can agree with a number of institutions that, with the cooperation that is being established in a U.S.A. that can already strengthen cooperation with the HBO institutions in the field of Ad in terms of content with a number of existing aoc's and colleges. I agree with Mr Beertema that we should not go back to organising this administratively again. Then we're gonna go through too much with this bill. But if you ask me if I would like to explore how we can strengthen this cooperation in the column in a very good way, I would be happy to do so. Saxion is already a very good example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	It's an interruption. Let me just say that Ad stands for "associated degree."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	That stands for "associated degree," yes. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	I explained this in my contribution: those are the first two years of HBO training. I am glad that the Minister is going to make a commitment to this and that she is going to see whether this can be strengthened in the professional column. But there's still some. I don't want the Ads to become part of the vertical school community now. If I had wanted to, I would have tabled an amendment and we would have had a discussion on the amendment. So that's not what I'm asking. I do get signals from a number of MBO and here and there college boards that say to me: shouldn't we have the experimental space from the Ministry to see if we can link these Ads to that vertical school community in one or two cases? They also ask: can we run a pilot for that? They say: then at some point we can also tell the Minister and the House of Representatives that this is an absolute disaster and that we should not do it, or that there is something in it and we may have to move on with it, and not just for that continuous learning line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	So it's really about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u120	Let me know which settings have reported that to you. Then I'm gonna call them right away and see what exactly their question is and how we can make that possible. I'll draw a line at the Ad from HBO, but you don't want that. Mr President, I mean to withdraw the associate degree from higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u121	However, I am afraid that as soon as a first step is taken... Apparently, there are some HBO settings that would love to, but I don't know those HBO settings. I only hear HBO settings that wouldn't want that. So it's a little unclear what's going on here. When a first step is taken, we all know that the next steps will also be taken. So I'd like to call the Minister. Why don't you? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just leave it the way it is now. It's complicated enough as it is. Right now, it's all working out fine. Leave it alone! Why do we have to change things that go well, always trying to change them? I wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u122	I'll go along with this. I am sure that is what Mr El Yassini means. Because it's also about offering opportunities to MBO students who really want to deepen themselves and expand even more or deepen themselves in their profession. They just want a nice connection there. Mr Beertema, I promise you one thing: before we really do anything about it, I will report that to the Chamber, so that you can make a substantive assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u123	Yet there is talk of yo-yo policy. At the time, I was the only passionate advocate to hang that associate degrees on the rocks and the mbo. Nobody went along with that, because none of that could and I don't know. We've known. Because those rocks wanted quite well, but well, and with the HBOs it was very difficult to achieve. Okay. I've had a moving insight. The minute things got better in those HBOs, I was a happy person. And now the old PVV ideas are being taken back, which of course happens more often. But let's just not do it. Just leave it alone for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u124	My adadium in education is: we need to have less competition and more cooperation. This is exactly one of those points where you can have a great collaboration. So let's try that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Beertema and Mr Kwint had another question about what the vertical school community means for the use of powers. It doesn't change anything. Let's just be very clear about that: it doesn't change anything. That is not the intention at all. Mr. Beertema also asked me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u125	Mr Kwint on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u126	I asked for the following reason. You're gonna be under one board. Well, then, basically, you have one employer, all of them. So you're all covered by the same employer. I would like to avoid that deficits in one place might be smeared up with a surplus in the other place, so that someone with an MBO competence, for example, will get to work in vo and vice versa. In the end, that can work on who gets hired, because then you can hire someone for a lower salary and then put you to work somewhere else. Does the Minister of all these possibilities say they can't with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u127	What I'm telling you is that this bill doesn't change powers. We can start philosophizing about then, but all we know on the basis of this law is that the law doesn't change powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u128	My question was about the use of teachers. Since they are covered by one employer, can they be transferred from one school to another, even if they are not authorised to do so? That's where my concern was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u129	You also know how we look at working with qualified teachers and teachers. It is monitored in the usual way. You're asking me a little bit if I can predict people's behavior. I can't quite do that. I do know what we do in the law with the powers and how we monitor the deployment of people with the right authority. And this bill doesn't change anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u130	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr Beertema asked me another question which I might have been better able to answer in the beginning: why this solution for the shrinkage in the MBO? If you look at the forecasts for the coming years, we can also see shrinkage in HBO in a number of areas, which is also quite considerable. There is, of course, a part of'shrink' that rightly refers to the upward pressure in education, but it also has to do with the shrinkage in a number of regions. In higher education we see shrinkage at a number of HBO institutions. We see growth in the wo, of course by international students, but also by Dutch students. I know you don't want to, but I was at work the other day in the Eindhoven region, and if we didn't have so many international students, then the Eindhoven region wasn't such a thriving region. Let's be very clear about that, too. We also need these people very much for our labour market. It also does something with the quality of our science. Mr Beertema and I think differently, but we are not going to discuss that tonight. There's some effects in it. We also want to see what we call alternating current, see how wo and hbo can better work together in order to get students better into their place. I was just talking about a couple of havists who might be happier on the MBO. I believe that institutions should also cooperate better in this regard. They should not compete for each student, but should work better together to see which degree a student is best served with. There is also work to be done. As a result, there was also the question of funding, because we have a problem when funding is mainly based on student numbers. The instruments we use now allow us to address part of the shrinkage. There are a number of reports in the Chamber on the funding. The Chamber will have to hold a discussion with the next cabinet, which is urgent in the HBO, but certainly also in the MBO, on whether, in addition to funding on the basis of the number of pupils, you should no longer work with a fixed foot or with additional amounts for shrinking areas. There's really something going on. You're gonna have to see if you can't build in some mechanisms that might reduce that competition. Mrs Westerveld asked a question about the so-called m-year, the middle year, an orientation year at the MBO before you start your education. A number of schools have very nice programs for that. Before the summer, I will inform the Chamber by letter of how this is going and how we are going to proceed. Mrs Westerveld also asked a number of questions about students with disabilities. I've been talking to your room separately about studying with a disability. I ask Mrs Westerveld to come back with her questions in the next meeting. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Hoop asked about the local choice of school. That's a very fair question. In part, we have this bill to ensure that young people in their own region have a rich choice of education at an appropriate distance. Wherever you live, you need to be able to follow the education where your heart is. On the contrary, we have this bill to maintain the supply in secondary education and the MBO as much as possible. There is a lot to say to have more cooperation in technical vocational education, so that you can keep an attractive offer throughout the country. There are costs to be shared. Cooperation and vertical school communities do not mean that everything shifts to one location. We need to be clear about that. The schools that take part in it remain partly the schools that they are. If the shrinkage continues in certain regions, the choice of schools and the supply may be under pressure. We've seen that before. That's why I'm saying you have to want to look at that in the budget. In secondary education there was a look at supplements. For the future, we need to look for MBO and HBO to see if you need to ensure somewhere separate from student numbers that a certain offer can stay there. We can already see that there is a kind of crazy urge: we need more students, otherwise we cannot keep a certain offer. That's what you're trying to prevent. This can partly be done through cooperation, but I do not rule out the fact that at some point you will have to look at that funding. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Bishop's opinion: you've done some fine homework, but I don't think it's good enough; do another blow over it. When I was in school, I always thought that was a very nice incentive from my teachers, but I would like to say that for the moment I really want to leave it at that. I very much hope that we will be able to resolve a number of simply very practical issues in this way. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go through the amendments systematically. First of all, the amendment on item No. 9 by Mr Kwint on public education. In view of the debate we have had, you will not be surprised that I am not recommending that amendment. I said earlier that I would like to do a number of reconnaissances, but that we should not deal with that now in this bill. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Bishop. I know that in the previous period he also followed my predecessors very critically on this point. When I looked at his amendment again, I thought: he is actually right. You need to have as few double functions as possible in the administrative field. Drivers should be able to perform their task with full attention. We should not want to see any sign of conflict of interest here either. I'll give the amendment judgment Chamber. The amendment in part No. 13 members Peters and Van Meenen deal with Havo and Vwo. We talked about that. That's what's gonna happen, Room. I can very much follow your assessment of that. The amendment in part No. 14 is about the preliminary procedure for the kinship requirement. I understand that Mr Peters would like to take a look at this with the Minister. This amendment will therefore also be judged by the Chamber. I should like to make a few comments on this point. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u132	The amendment in part No. 16 has already been replaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u133	That's been replaced, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u134	And the amendment to item No. 20 you've already given judgment to Chamber. In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 22 You have said: I cannot judge it. Then there is the amendment in part No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u135	Yes, the amendment to item No. 23 by Mr Kwint. I have already said in the debate. That gets... no, sorry, I'm almost saying it wrong. That's about the WMS. I urge you not to saddle this bill with more change than is necessary. I have addressed the questions on participation as well as possible with the letter of amendment. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u136	Clear. The amendment in part No. 23 has also been dissuaded. That is why all the amendments have received an opinion, except for the amendment on item No. 22. The Minister has made it clear that it will not be able to give an opinion on this until the Council of State has given its opinion. It is up to the author to say what happens to it, but that can be done in the second period. I thank the Minister for her input and would like to continue immediately with the second term. You have a third of the speaking time for this. Maybe we can do it even shorter than that. First of all, Mr Peters will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Your Excellency, for answering the questions. I am pleased and I think that Mr Kwint, too, would have understood a little more of the changes that have been sent out than I had anticipated. I have two motions. You said that if we start evaluating, we will do so within three years. It is half a commitment, and I have put it in a motion. Then I can read it and write it on my palmares, because the motion will undoubtedly get judgment Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law on administrative harmonization regulates vocational education and training that a single vocational training institution with a single MBO institution can form a vertical school community;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has 62 MBO institutions and about 648 VET schools, which prevent many VET schools from forming a vertical school community unless they first merge;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with an assessment of the extent to which the rule that only one school and one MBO institution can form a vertical school community is a restriction on the formation of vertical school communities, up to three years after the entry into force of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35606-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u138	Then a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that, despite the expected shrinkage in the MBO, there remains sufficient supply of bol and bbl training throughout the country;]] [[noting that at present an MBO institution only needs to inform the Minister that it is stopping training;]] [[Whereas this is often a fact and does not provide a basis for ensuring that it is still possible to consider whether it is desirable for a particular training to be completed in that region;]] [[noting that the Minister had ignored an earlier motion with the idea of setting up a reverse efficiency test;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with the field of education, ways of ensuring that schools are jointly responsible for maintaining a minimum supply of coverage in the region, taking into account the reverse efficiency test, and informing the Court of Auditors about this for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35606-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u139	So far. And another 50 seconds won, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u140	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u141	If I don't keep talking, we'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u142	And if you give the motions to the clerk, you'll be fine. The next speaker was Mr El Yassini, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u143	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions and the good conversation we are having on the various subjects that are still within the scope of this legislative proposal. I look forward very much to continuing the discussion on stronger vocational education when we start working on the budget. I have one motion. I'd like to read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law on administrative harmonization of vocational education and training is currently limited to cooperation within the MBO and between the MBO and the MBO;]] [[Considering that for a number of years the associate degree has a permanent place within higher education to reduce the gap between secondary vocational education and higher education;]] [[Asks the Government to examine whether the approach taken in the Saxion Top Course offers points of reference for pathways towards transit to higher education wo, to associate degree, and what should be regulated for such cooperation, including administratively, if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35606-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u145	The motions must be given to the Registrar himself in the context of corona. The next speaker was Mr Kwint, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u146	I'm hoping I won't need my full five minutes, Mr. Chairman. At a number of moments today, the Minister said that these are indeed interesting questions which I think we should discuss further in the coming period. I think we've seen enough leads. One of these points was funding in relation to shrinkage. I get that. We do need to talk about this, because that has not yet been settled. This raises the question of why we have ever designated a coordinating minister "shrink" in this cabinet. At the end of this cabinet period, it is concluded that a subsequent cabinet should discuss this matter further. I understand that there are a lot of things that come together and that you really don't just solve that problem. But I had asked explicitly in the first period whether, for example, such a coordinating minister had looked at it. Is there, for example, an alternative to a law such as this which is more in the funding angle and which allows the supply of education in shrinking areas to be maintained? Where I agree with the Minister that we need to look further at it, I fear that the answer to that question is no. Then there's the co-determination. We remain convinced that administrative scaling up calls for more democracy and participation and that the School Participation Act fits best. Let me just say a few words about the staff. That is a matter of concern to us. The reason I am asking is that teachers of secondary education and MBOs will soon be given one employer, namely one school board. That's exactly what this whole law is about. We see the risk that it will be easy, especially with growing deficits, to push dolls back and forth and that it may even be financially attractive to put someone with an MBO competence to work on the vo. Then the Minister says: the rules on powers do not change. That's right. But the fact that you suddenly have a boss who happens to be a boss of an MBO does change. There's no ready-made solution for that. I get that. I have not prepared a motion for it either, but I would like to give the Minister a critical look at it, for example, in consultation with trade unions, but also in the evaluation of such a law. It would really undermine the profession and position of the teacher. Then there is the touch of Article 23 that was attached to this debate. As I said, it is not at all my and my party's intention to shorten this discussion. I still have questions about exactly how it was weighed. I am very glad that the Minister says: we are going to make a note of it and we are going to send those considerations to the Chamber again. If I can find that note, I will withdraw the amendment to this one... Not on this one, but on receipt of the note. I have one more question. If we don't take care of it now, when will we? This amendment deals specifically with those vertical school communities. I am still a little concerned that it will be put on a very long road. On the other hand, freedom of education and the discussion about it is a discussion that is never very far away. So we'll find a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. The next speaker will be Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV for his second term. Perhaps I can take advantage of this by asking the Minister to indicate in her second term when she expects to send the letter. We have to take this into account when planning the votes so that Mr Kwint has time to make an assessment of the letter and to draw a conclusion as to whether or not to withdraw the amendment. Mr. Beertema, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u148	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with what Mr Kwint said about the powers. It is a pity, indeed, that we have not thought a bit more in advance of perhaps tabling an amendment or a motion. I'm worried about it, too. Perhaps the Minister can reassure us in her second term. Furthermore, I have had an almost pleasant conversation with the Minister, which does not happen very often until she, of course, started again about internationalisation and its blessings. I didn't move, because otherwise it's gonna be awfully late tonight. Nevertheless, I wish the Minister every success in the further development of this law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u149	Thank you, too. The next speaker will be Mr De Hoop on behalf of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u150	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party sees the importance of this bill. It is about the importance of maintaining the quality of vocational education and the importance of accessibility, especially in the regions, in order to be able to go to school nearby. We'll wrestle two cases. The first is participation. Mr Kwint has already said a great deal about this. Another point that we are struggling with is the amendment to item No. 13 There has already been judgment given to Chamber of D66 and CDA, to give room for the havo. We find this difficult. The Minister himself also states that we must not do more than is necessary. I asked in the first term: can you say that this is not the specific purpose of this legislation? My gut says you're actually gonna find this. In the consultation you, as a government, raise the risks of over-government and making mergers attractive. You have made the choice not to add it to it. I find that hard to reconcile. I find it difficult to assess the impact of what it does with the very organisation that is so related to the bill. So it's kind of complicated for us. What do you really think of this case? You might as well have brought it yourself, but you didn't at the consultation. I'm just finding it hard to assess what's the right consideration there. Let me tell you that these are really the two points that the Labour Party is still struggling with, but we do see the importance of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u151	Thank you for your input. Mr Van Meenen will be the last speaker. He doesn't want to do that. Finally, it is Mr Bishop who will speak on behalf of the SGP in the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u152	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. It was a bit brief here and there, but well, that's acceptable given the time. Otherwise it's all gonna be later. I have one motion, which concerns further harmonization of participation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the draft law on vertical school communities, the government opts for the principle of shared participation, whereby staff follow the system of works councils and where there are specific councils for pupils and parents;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that, in the long term, more and more situations arise in which comparable schools operate with different participation schemes;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of a single legal framework for the whole of secondary education and the MBO, which meets the wishes and different positions of the various sections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35606-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u154	Mr Van Meenen wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u155	I understand the idea behind the motion, but I do not understand why you are confined to secondary education and vocational education. Why, for example, do you not immediately include primary education or the whole education system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u156	It's a fair question. Thank you. The reason is that this is about secondary education and the MBO. I wouldn't mind the Minister saying, "Wait a minute, we'll have it p.o. It also needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u157	I am thinking, for example, of the 10-14 schools, where exactly this problem also arises. Anyway, there are all kinds of transitions like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u158	The point is that we are gradually getting a mess of all kinds and shapes. On the one hand you want to deliver customization for the different types of schools, but on the other hand you also want to streamline and harmonise. That's why I come up with this research motion, because I want to know what's actually possible to rake it, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u159	In the first term, I heard Mr Bishop say something that I fundamentally disagreed with, namely: just take the participation regime of the MBO and see to what extent that can be applied to the vo. This motion seems more open-minded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u160	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u161	This motion is an open inquiry into what we can harmonise and does not have the implication that I thought I heard in the first term. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u162	That's right. My contribution in the first term was a little more solid than the motion eventually became. This is due to the enriching influence of Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u163	I find that almost never an improvement, but in this particular case I think that the judgment on the motion... I did not mean Mr Peters! I meant that it is almost never a good idea to weaken one's own argument, but in this particular case I think it might improve the judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u164	If you're debating with each other, you're supposed to listen to each other a little bit. Well, it'd be nice if that happened a little more often. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u165	Thank you for your input. This motion also goes through the clerk to the minister. I understand the Minister is able to answer directly. I therefore give her the opportunity to start her second term right away. I think the motion will end up with the Minister in the meantime. There have been not only four motions for resolutions, because a number of questions have also been put. We're about to hear the verdict on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u166	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its extremely constructive attitude this evening. That's nice. The motion in part No. I think that Mr Peters' 24 is a good idea. It is a good idea to look together with the educational field to see how we can ensure that we keep the offer minimally covering. It is always the question of what is minimally covering, but I think that at least that means that you can serve the labour market well in the region. Furthermore, you need to be able to offer some basic things. I'm gonna go talk to them about that. I am also going to include this in the discussions I have with both the MBO Council and the SBB for this purpose, because it also seems to me relevant to the MBO students. I will come back to you on this subject for the budget. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 25, on the evaluation. That was actually a commitment, but it gets judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 26, about what is actually happening at the Saxion Top Course. I am referring to that cooperation with the associate degree. That motion will be judged by Chamber. I'd like to get to work on that. Then the motion to part No. 27 by Mr Bishop. It's nice to see that, as you mentioned yourself, you've become milder as the evening progressed. I think it is sensible that I have also indicated this in my term of office in order to see whether we can no longer harmonise these regimes. I also hear very well Mr Van Meenen's question. I am also looking at MBO students with an oblique eye to what is happening in higher education. If you say "on this motion, the Minister may take the liberty of looking at adjacent plots," I am happy to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u167	For the Acts: I see Mr Bishop nodding on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u168	Then there are a number of questions. Mr Kwint had another question about the powers. We'll take that into account in the evaluation. We're gonna take a good look at that. If what you're afraid of is gonna happen, we need to see how we address it. Again, the law doesn't change anything in that respect. In the evaluation, we include all the relevant points needed to see whether it works properly and whether it does not pose insurmountable problems. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Hoop had a question about participation. I understand everyone's struggle. We have tried to change the system as little as possible with this legislative proposal, but we have tried to address it as best we can. I am very glad that your Chamber says, at least, if the Bishop motion is adopted: go and see how we can make this easier. Finally, Mr De Hoop's comment on the dilemma. If you've heard me correctly, I've really struggled with this. It's a dilemma. I understand both sides of that very well. I can follow the reasoning. Only, in my position, you always have to make a choice. You ask: what do you ultimately choose? That's what I chose in the bill. We're dealing with two things. Think of the existing situation in 18 institutions. As far as I am concerned, what is the most urgent matter? This is to maintain attractive vocational education throughout the country. We also have real concerns about this in the preparatory vocational education system. In my opinion, this bill will help with that. That's where the quarter fell on one side for me. Only, I can follow the other reasoning very well; I also see advantages in that. But I also know how this Chamber often thinks about scaling up. Let us therefore do what is most necessary, without opting for very large institutions. But the other can do the same. I don't have a problem with that. If you vote, you'll have to drop the quarter somewhere. I responded to Mr Bishop's motion. I would like to send the letter on Mr Kwint's amendment to your Chamber by Monday at the latest, so that it can also be discussed in the political groups. Then Mr Kwint can count his buttons in time for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u171	This brings us to the end of the treatment of the Law on Administrative Harmonisation in Vocational Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u172	On the basis of the Minister's promise that the letter will come on Monday and the time to discuss it, the aim will be to vote on the law, the amendments tabled and the motions for resolutions next Tuesday. I thank Members for their input and I thank the Minister and Members for their support. Have a good trip home. See you tomorrow.
