ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u1	I'm suspending a moment in anticipation of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u2	I welcome the initiators and the Minister again. I would like to inform you that the House has just decided to vote in principle at the end of this evening's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u3	I give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I almost had the impression that the initiators did not want to listen to the SGP group, but fortunately they arrived in time. After such a lunch break it is always good to express all the congratulations immediately: Mr De Vries has become about the same age as the SP, both congratulations, the Labour Party has become 75 years and our chairman is about in between. Congratulations on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u5	I'm doing this very neatly, aren't I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u6	Will you stay for a while afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u7	And of course strength for Mr Baljeu and good luck with his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. It is not the first time that I have to say this duality, whether two-woman or three-woman from the Lower House is reporting to defend an initiative proposal. Their work spirit deserves a compliment, although my group would say that their workforce could be used differently, but that is an appreciation that is entirely on my behalf. In any case, they are here and there is an initiative proposal for a legislative proposal aimed at amending the Constitution. That's not nothing. There must be clear indications that this is necessary. Initiators and the Minister pointed out elements such as "social support," "historical growth" and "the emergence of constitutional maturity." These are all vague descriptions on which the SGP Group has requested clarity, but unfortunately has not received any. The initiators do not find it appropriate, they write, and do not doable to fill in the criteria. I think that is a pity, because it seems that only the social pressure, which is often referred to by my group as gender ideology, has led the authors to come to this proposal. As I have already shared with the initiators in another bill, the SGP group has fundamental objections to it, especially from the creation order as mentioned in the Bible book Genesis: man and woman God created them. This means that my group places sexual orientation within the context of marriage as a lifelong relationship of love and loyalty between a man and a woman, in which children can find a safe bed. Moreover, on the basis of that order of creation, it is also a fundamental principle that all men are created equal and deserve equal protection. Back to the point that the proposers do not find it feasible to specify the criteria for a constitutional change. They argue that in the present legislative proposal they have deliberately chosen the grounds on which the public debate can be regarded as crystallised. I don't think that's quite right. It is striking that the proposers have submitted their proposal to the House of Representatives on the grounds of disability and heterosexual or homosexual orientation. It was only recently that the bill was amended in the House of Representatives and the words "heterosexual or homosexual orientation" lapsed and "sexual orientation" replaced it. Can the proposers indicate this change? Is this constitutional maturity now due to the debate in the House of Representatives? If so, the proposal was not entirely ripe at the start of this plenary debate. Mr. Chairman. I know that it is not just about sexual orientation, because disability is also included as a non-discrimination ban. That doesn't make it much better, because it makes it look like people with disabilities are a new species. Surely the proposers cannot seriously believe that people with disabilities will not or will not be covered by the scope of Article 1 of the Constitution until now? Because why not include other elements? Why not age, why not origin, why not, you name it? This question is all the more pressing since the applicants themselves have indicated in their answers to questions from, among other things, the SGP and I quote: 'that an explicit prohibition of discrimination on grounds contained therein is not only in line with a social standard which is now widespread, but is already part of our legal order'. Then there is a colon and then: "The grounds are already included in international treaties and in formal legislation."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u8	Back to disability as a ground that the initiators want to put in the text of the Constitution. Did you have the same questions when the international treaty proposed through the UN to include disability as a non-discrimination ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u9	I was not there, as Mr Dittrich knows. If he refers to Article 21 of the Charter of the European Union, I shall now come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u10	No, I referred to the International Convention on People with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u11	No, I didn't ask that question there. I couldn't, because I wasn't there. I don't remember the piece of legal history that's been exchanged about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u12	What I mean by this is that this group has also been highlighted internationally because of the discrimination they encounter in society. It was said at the time that we must pay close attention to this group. That is why, after lobbying all kinds of disability groups, that international treaty was finally drawn up. In any case, the same question you are asking about the initiative proposal has already been answered at international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u13	Sure. I will now come to an international treaty, namely the Charter of the European Union. I would point out, however, that such a treaty is not about the Constitution. Here we are talking about the Constitution. That is a fundamental difference. I was just talking about that colon. The initiators said: "The grounds are both already included in international treaties and in formal legislation." That's right. I refer to Article 21 of the Charter of the European Union, which states that "any discrimination, in particular on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other views belonging to a national minority, property, birth, disability, age, sexual orientation, is prohibited'. Paragraph 2 of the article states: "Within the scope of the Treaties and without prejudice to their special provisions, any discrimination on grounds of nationality shall be prohibited'. Well guessed I was counting on my fingers for a while. These are eighteen items. Mr. Chairman. If the proposers invoke the fact that both of the grounds to be added, namely disability and sexual orientation, are included in international conventions and in formal legislation, this naturally raises a number of questions. Then why does it have to be in the Constitution? Second question: why then only these two grounds and why not the whole pride? Take the soil "color" as an example. Hasn't Black Lives Matter reached constitutional maturity yet? Is there no social support or historical development for banning discrimination on grounds of birth or nationality? Mr. Chairman. In particular, sexual orientation requires great care. The scope of this term is enormous and the risk of resurrection of inappropriate and unlawful behaviour is not imaginary. Of course I understand very well that there are limits by other laws and by criminal law, but I would like to mention it here. For the history of law, I also think it is important for the proposers and the government to state clearly what this addition to the Constitution means for the sexual orientation of adults to children or animals. What is the reaction of the proposers and the government to the warning of the College of Human Rights that the wording used carries the risk of overinclusion? Should this not lead to extra caution, especially when it comes to incorporating it into the Constitution? Mr. Chairman. The Constitution should also include disability as a ground. It was originally the intention of Mr Rouvoet's motion, which is often referred to, that chronically ill should also be mentioned separately. Anyway, the proposers have chosen the word "disability." This concerns all people with disabilities. In the written round I asked about the significance of this for an aspect that has not yet been discussed today. I have not received such good answers, and that is why I shall return to it. It was about its meaning for unborn life. I received an answer from the proposers which does not do justice to that. They argue in their reply that "an unborn fruit can only bear rights if it is born alive'. My first question is what the proposers mean by an unborn fruit. Isn't that just a child, a human? That can count on protection, can't it, even before birth? Fortunately, in this Chamber too, we have established that unborn children are human beings. In this respect, I would like to refer to the law that made it possible to register children who died in the mother's womb in the civil register, the Basic Registration Persons, in connection with the recording of data at the time of or after the declaration of deceased children. In the treatment of that law, it has been established that this may include children who have died in the mother's womb and even children who have been killed in the mother's womb. That says enough about the status of unborn life. If the proposers see this differently, it is contrary to my vision of life, but also to our own legislation. Unborn children have the right to be protected. That is why I once again ask the proposers what the consequences of their law are for the unborn life that is disabled. Why does an unborn child have the right to a name and registration, but not to protection for disability? If an ultrasound shows that a child has a disability, can the child be aborted after this law has been passed, or are we actually banning it now? If the legislator considered that these children with disabilities should not expect protection, that would be a blow to the face of parents who, despite knowing by prenatal screening that their child is likely to have a disability, consciously choose to carry out pregnancy and bring their child into the world. Therefore, my urgent question to the proposers: what is this law doing for the disabled life of a child in the mother's womb? Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the bill that's now before me. In my group there are a number of substantive questions, as formulated, but also deep doubts as to whether the Constitution and its interpretation would be useful if non-limitative lists were added. Our Constitution must be and must be sober. There are sufficient benchmarks in the legislation to address and combat abuses, such as discrimination. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mrs Teunissen has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to all the year-olds in our midst today. First of all, on behalf of the Animal Party, I would like to congratulate the authors of this bill, which seeks to extend non-discrimination grounds to include disability and sexual orientation. It is a testament to hard work, good work and perseverance. The Animal Party welcomes the proposal. It is a crucial step forward. Equality before the law is one of the fundamental principles of our legal order. Today, the initiators bring that equality to a higher level. Unfortunately, every day we are reminded of the need to do so. As far as lhbtiqa+ rights are concerned, the Netherlands is no longer in the top ten of European countries where the lhbtiqa+ rights are well regulated. We've got a catch-up to make. This is also a good signal to the rest of Europe. ILGA-Europe notes that no progress has been made in 49% of European countries in terms of lhbtiqa+ rights. When it comes to people with disabilities or chronic illness, the increase in the number of reports is alarming. According to research conducted by the College of Human Rights, discrimination on grounds of disability or chronic illness was reported more frequently than ever before in 2019. The police recorded 79 incidents of disability discrimination in 2019. That is almost a doubling of the number of notifications in 2018. The shadow report of the 2019 UN Convention also shows that participation on an equal footing for many people with disabilities is not yet a daily practice. What is the significance of the explicit inclusion of disability and sexual orientation in Article 1 of the Constitution? Firstly, recognition. It indicates that we as a society do not accept discrimination against these two groups. In the courts, it also provides victims with additional support and an additional argument to tackle discrimination harshly. Thirdly, the Constitution is the highest law in the Netherlands. Other laws will be reviewed accordingly. The explicit designation of sexual orientation and disability as grounds for discrimination sets a clear standard for existing and future legislation. And fourthly, rights that now seem self-evident may come under pressure. By including their rights in the Constitution, those rights are guaranteed longer and more strictly. At a time when homo- and transphobia and validism are still the order of the day, that signal is extremely important and desirable. For these reasons, the Party for Animals considers it crucial to explicate discrimination grounds. The accusation I have heard from a number of parties is that specific grounds for discrimination are explicitly used to create the appearance of a certain hierarchy, a certain restrictive list. As far as my group is concerned, this lacks the organic nature of legislation and its origins, which reflect the norms and values of a society. These change in time. In this case, it is thanks to the hard and long struggle of emancipation movements. It is important to feel good about this spirit of time as a legislator. Can the proposers explain again how they look at the argument that there might be groups in society that feel misguided by this proposal, for example in the case of age discrimination, or in the case of colour? What do the authors think of the accusation that there might be incomplete legislation? Mr. Chairman. In addition to this constitutional change, much more is needed. For example, there is insane discrimination against transpersonal and non-binary persons in the workplace, in schools and in society in general. For example, the unemployment rate is at least twice as high among trans-nationals. Now that the Constitution, the General Law on Equal Treatment and the Code of Criminal Law are expressing their opinion on the inadmissibility of discrimination, I would like to ask the Minister what consequences the constitutional change has for the other two laws. Are these being streamlined? And what effect does this constitutional change have in practice for the groups concerned? Mr President, I shall conclude. In summary. The Animal Party rejects any form of discrimination and welcomes every step towards a better anchoring of the principle of equality. We would like to hear from the Minister and the proposers what practical and legal added value this constitutional change has for the groups concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I call Mr Raven, on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. In the preparation of this legislative proposal, regular discussions have been held on whether the addition to Article 1 of the Constitution of the elements of disability and sexual orientation is necessary as a non-discrimination ground, now that there is a general passage in the Constitution that does not allow discrimination on any ground. A discussion you can have in length of days, because for both variants there is something to say. The power of the rule of law is not so much demonstrated by how the law is written, but rather by how the law is enforced. And that's where the shoe wrings. Discrimination is prohibited, but virtually no one is punished in the event of a violation. Judges rarely commit themselves to convictions and the legislator is not sufficiently clear. As a result, Article 1 of the Constitution now appears to be a dead letter. As a result, no one knows what should or should not be done, with the consequence of continuing undermining the rule of law. A calving that in fact deserves much more attention and a higher priority than the vocabulary of the present draft initiative. Too bad the fight against this calving isn't going to happen. More and more populist politicians undermine Article 1 of the Constitution with discriminatory statements. They encourage hatred against entire population groups. Like the following hateful and discriminatory phrases from a TV commercial from early January of this year by a low esteemed group chairman in the House of Representatives. The first quote: "Homos who are beaten up by intolerant Moroccans." The second quote: "Dutch people who are massively disadvantaged." And the third quote: "All immigrants are favoured by rentals, jobs or whatever." Successfully replace the words "Moroccans," "Dutch" and "allochtons" with the words "jodens," "Germans" and "zigers," and we sit in a German propaganda film from the thirties of the last century. Discrimination at the top, Chairman. You might expect the mobile unit to light the person concerned off his bed the next day at 6:00 a.m., but the Public Prosecutor's Office just lets this happen and doesn't take any action. No action can be expected from the self-cleaning capacity of the association concerned, since the person concerned is the only member of this club and the elected representatives of that party dodge responsibility discussions. Mr. Chairman. Discrimination is an unacceptable excrement of human behavior towards fellow human beings, starting with bullying individuals or groups on any ground. If that bullying doesn't get smothered in the bud, it grows from evil to worse. Then it becomes a subdermal peat fire. Peoplemen, usually dressed as wolves in sheep's clothing, encourage this human weakness, encourage it and tempt people to discriminate against entire populations. The rule of law must protect its citizens and help contain the fire by exposing and punishing these wolves. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, numerous institutions are now available for the control or treatment of bullying at school. Bullies are being dealt with early. Unfortunately, victims of discrimination are often left to their own devices. There's no adequate help from the police or the justice system, because it says, ah, don't press charges, it's not gonna help. No less than seven years have passed since the trial of their political group chairman of the House of Representatives in relation to severe discriminatory decisions. This morning we heard from the PVV group that they want to change the rules of the game, probably to keep their foreman out of the wind. As far as I am concerned, that reeks of abuse of the party's legal power to favour an individual. Mr. Chairman. The judiciary sets incorrect priorities in the resolution of court cases related to Article 1 of the Constitution. As a result, he is contributing to a certain undermining of our rule of law. The prohibition of discrimination is not in vain in Article 1 of the Constitution. The legislator considers this to be one of the most important obligations of our rule of law. It is the primus inter pares, or the first among the equals. Judges should give priority to proceedings related to Article 1. Procedures for discrimination should not be placed at the back of the queue and the lawyer should not be given a disproportionate time to delay the course of justice. There is a world of difference between careful procedures and deliberate delay. Judges may be expected to recognise and unravel this difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u18	When I hear this speech, I get the impression that judges should play an active role rather than a pitiful role. They're getting cases brought in. If, for example, the prohibition of discrimination has been infringed, then it is reported. That's the way the judge gets that on his table. I wonder to what extent it can now be said that judges should play a much more active role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u19	I did not say that they should play a more active role. I have said that they must recognise and unravel the need for unnecessary lengthening of procedures. We also need a judiciary to identify such matters. They should be able to recognize that with their knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u20	Then I just didn't get it right. You say that judges should make a kind of distinction between cases in which the lawyer would play an active role or not. I just don't understand your line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u21	I believe that the text is clear and that the objective I want to pursue is also clear. An unnecessarily lengthy procedure does not fit in with Article 1 of the Constitution and its compliance. It's supposed to combat discrimination. It can't be dragged for years. Anyone who can or wants to contribute to this is responsible for giving priority to this type of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u22	Finally, Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u23	Finally. So if I translate it into my own words, it is actually the case that discrimination will be reduced if procedures are shortened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u24	No, I'm not saying that. You didn't understand. That does not mean that discrimination will decrease. It does mean that discrimination is dealt with more quickly. If we do not, it will still undermine the rule of law in the Netherlands. That's my point. At the moment that you have stated in Article 1 of the Constitution that you must not discriminate, that we all expect that and that there is an equality principle that we all have to comply with, you can expect the rule of law to make arrangements to deal with discrimination offences quickly. It must be done carefully, in any case, but quickly, and not in seven years of proceedings, because it undermines the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u25	Please continue your argument, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u26	I call on the Minister to break this vicious procedural circle and adapt legal procedures to protect victims of discrimination and to be able to punish perpetrators more quickly in these cases. I call on the initiators to draw up, as soon as possible, a follow-up initiative law on the criminalisation of discrimination, including on grounds of disability and sexual orientation, with a direct minimum term of imprisonment of several years and substantial compensation to victims. I would also like to participate in the drafting of this bill, but unfortunately I do not have the authority to do so. If you could pass that on, I'd appreciate it very much. And at the second reading of the Constitutional Amendment, we might be able to define it together. Mr. Chairman. Discrimination doesn't belong in a legal society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u27	There's someone here who wants to interrupt. I will allow Mr Raven, who is almost finished, to speak and then I will give Mr Dittrich the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u28	My last sentence. The OSF will support any initiative aimed at combating this behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u29	Thank you. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u30	Did I hear Mr Raven say that he wants a new bill with a minimum sentence of a few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u31	Yes, I did say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u32	Then I can announce to you now that D66 will be against that. We're against minimum punishment. We believe that this should be left to the courts, the judge who hears the file, the suspect and the witnesses and who can therefore really weigh all aspects of a case. Minimum sentences do not belong in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u33	Okay, that could be. But may I challenge you to indicate what you think of the current length of the procedures and whether they are in line with the rule of law that we are pursuing? I might get an answer to that in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u34	That is not part of this bill, but I shall first give the floor to Mr van der Burg. Then Mr Dittrich can give some thought to whether he still wants to be in the rebound.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u35	I have been sitting for a long time with the question: will I now respond to what has just been said by OSF? I think I should do it anyway. You referred to a commercial from my neighbors, the PVV. I didn't see the commercial. But I dare say with certainty that I disagreed completely with them and that I would have agreed with you on substance, in terms of criticism. And yet I was disturbed by your remark that it was obvious that the ME had called the people the next day to intervene. Because however you and I disagree with, in this case, the PVV, they have the right, on the basis of the same Constitution we are discussing today, to say everything, in accordance with Article 7 of the Constitution, unless a criminal offence has been committed on the basis of laws and regulations. Here I sit regularly with curved toes, or with toes that are smashed right through my shoes, when I hear contributions from the PVV. But they have every right to say what they think in this Chamber and in public opinion. It shouldn't be the case that the government will send the M.E. on them the next day, unless the law has been broken. I believe that this should also be said when we talk about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u36	Thank you. Mr Raven, finally. I didn't hear a question, but perhaps you still want to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u37	I didn't hear a question. I did not say that we should order the ME to come to the door the next day. That's really something from the D.A.'s office. I just said that the D.A. doesn't do that and just let it happen. The question is whether you're saying something here, because here you are inviolable or saying it outside in a TV commercial. There's a difference. What is said here is subject to freedom of expression and may be said here, but not everything that is discriminatory can be said in a television commercial. I think one could have acted on that point. We do not do this because judges hardly dare to take decisions on discrimination. They do not have enough clarity about the direction we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u38	Thank you. Mr. Van der Burg, finally on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u39	I'd almost say put your money where your mouth is. If you think they've discriminated against in that commercial, report it and engage in the debate, but stay away from sending the police to people who have an opinion that isn't yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u40	Again, I did not say that we should do so. The state's attorney's office has to do his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u41	Thank you. I call Mr Kox of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that we can speak today with our colleagues Bergkamp, Özütok and Van den Hul, who are the three defenders of this proposal to amend the Constitution which has been adopted by the House of Representatives. I am glad that we are doing this in the presence of our Minister of Constitutional Affairs, who seems to have a season ticket on this part of the States General, which she loves so much. I'm glad she's back. Mr. Chairman. The bill can be discussed just before the Lower House elections. This is important because the second reading should not be postponed for another four years. A few weeks ago, we were faced with the same threat, when we discussed the first reading of the legislative initiative proposal on the binding corrective referendum. Fortunately, in the end, a majority of this Chamber was prepared to say yes to that initiative, despite certain justified doubts. I hope that the Chamber will also show this willingness today for this bill. Mr. Chairman. There are also some justified doubts about this bill that we are discussing and should be discussing today. To those justified doubts I do not question the question put by some in the Lower House and today in this Chamber under Article 1 of the Constitution as such. I very much agree with the authors of the initiative proposal of more than ten years ago that the equality of people is one of the fundamental principles of our legal system. That is why it is also included in our own programme of principles, 'Mankind as a whole'. As a SP, we always let ourselves be guided by three central concepts: human dignity, the equality of people and solidarity between people. 'Hands of Article 1', we say, and with us the vast majority of the Dutch population. Those who do want to delete this article have a lot of explaining to do. A rule of law without a principle of equality is like a boat without a bottom: a leaky boat. Today, we have heard the PVV, even in this Chamber, distance itself from that basic element of the rule of law. I deeply regret that. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u43	Mr Kox of the SP puts words in my mouth that I have not used. I said that we must move away from the current wording of Article 1 of the Constitution. That is different from the fact that we should get rid of the principle of equality. In fact, I have just argued, in line with what we have said before in the House of Representatives, that it is better to replace it with another article, which says that every Dutchman is equal before the law. So the principle of equality as such is simply beyond question. Mr Kox should not put that in my mouth. I merely said that the wording of the current Article 1 should be changed. This is different from abolishing the principle of equality as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u44	You have had this debate with each other several times today, so please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u45	Yeah, but it's being repeated now, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u46	It is a prevailing doctrine that the principle of non-discrimination is the mirror image, or the counterpart, of the principle of equality. A principle of equality with the possibility of discrimination and, in equal cases, unequal assessment is not equal before the law. In the post-World War II period, we have decided worldwide in all democracies that the inclusion of a non-discrimination clause is very important in order to make it clear that the principle that everyone is equal before the law must be implemented in this way. That is where it went wrong before the war, in countries that also had that article but did not mean that non-discrimination is bound up with equality before the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u47	Now Mr Kox is pulling everything out of his historical context by calling in the Second World War. It is precisely what was brought in under the ultra-left government of Den Uyl at the time. At that time, this constitutional article was amended as such. It is unfair to involve all the history of the Second World War and everything. The principle of equality as such is a principle of Enlightenment. It goes back to the 18th century. This is much stronger than the article that was formulated as such under the rule of the Den Uyl cabinet in the 1970s.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u48	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u49	Mr Van Hattem reads very selectively. He does so in certain religious books, and he does so in our Acts. I have just said, in an interruption to his remarks, that thinking about the reformulation of this article in our Constitution began immediately after the Second World War. That was because of the horrors of World War II. That wasn't a left-wing project by Joop den Uyl or anyone else. No, it started by the Van Schaik Committee, which you undoubtedly know, in 1950. Then came the Cals/Donner Committee, which you undoubtedly know, in 1967. After that, the Biesheuvel cabinet could not complete the net, but otherwise that cabinet would have incorporated it into the Constitution. Eventually it was incorporated into the Constitution under the Den Uyl cabinet, with the consent of about the entire parliament. So you should think carefully about your obsession that non-discrimination would have something to do with the left. Discrimination can affect you, too. You may also be disadvantaged by others. It is then up to everyone, including myself, to defend you against that discrimination. The idea of considering non-discrimination as a left-wing project is a very big mistake in your thinking, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u50	Good. Finally, Mr. Van Hattem, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u51	Now Mr. Kox is pulling it wide again, as he does all the time. He makes the issue of non-discrimination the underlying issue. It is about the wording as such. What is the article of the Constitution supposed to say? That article of the Constitution simply needs to confirm the principle of equality. Everything else that needs to be regulated about non-discrimination can also be regulated in lower legislation or in a different way. It is enough simply to take the starting point that every Dutchman is basically the same. That is just a very clear and understandable starting point for everyone. If you make it unnecessarily complex, you weaken the principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u52	Mr. Kox, a short answer and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u53	Mr Van Hattem may think what he wants, but he cannot blame me for knowing my pieces. The process of adapting the Constitution, modernising it as you wish, started immediately after the Second World War and because of the Second World War. It was worn by politicians of about every political signature. The wording now contained in Article 1 does not come from the whole left-wing Joop den Uyl, but from the Van Schaik Committee and the Cals/Donner Committee. It was already proposed under the Biesheuvel cabinet and supported by a large majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u55	You just need to read your pieces better, Mr. Van Hattem. You are a good parliamentarians, but you have looked at this too selectively. You don't always have to talk to Martin Bosma. He doesn't have time to read everything either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u56	Please continue your argument on the bill, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u57	Mr President, I was called upon to shop selectively. If I don't do that with this bill... I don't shop selectively. I know my history. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, discrimination isn't a thing of the past. Today on our agenda was a proposal from almost the entire Chamber for a parliamentary inquiry by this Chamber into the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation. Too often people become victims of unequal treatment. Last week, the Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly decided to look extra at the Netherlands this year, partly because of the systematic discrimination of thousands of taxpayers, not least by the government, which has been exposed for many years. If you add to this the definition of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau that discrimination is far too common, especially in education and the labour market, and that every time such a thing happens it causes a scratch on someone's soul, then anyone who claims that Article 1 of our Constitution can be seen blind and deaf. As I said, they have a lot of explaining to do. Mr. Chairman. Those who wish to add something to this article of the Constitution also have some explaining to do. But they have no doubt the intention of strengthening the rule of law rather than weakening it. Hence our compliments to the colleagues from the Lower House who are defending the bill here today. Mr. Chairman. The last amendment to Article 1 of the Constitution took place in 1983. Since the Second World War, there has been a lot of discussion about this. I have already mentioned the committees. The question was whether an addition to the hitherto applicable, extremely sober but comprehensive equality article would have any practical value. At that time, the Netherlands had been a party to the European Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe for more than 30 years, which included a non-discrimination clause. The Treaty is mandatory law and even goes beyond our national law. The Treaty states in Article 14 that the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms it mentions must be ensured without discrimination on any ground, such as sex, race, colour, religion, political opinion or any other opinion, national or social origin, membership of a national minority, property, birth or any other status. Nevertheless, in 1983 the government and parliament decided that our Constitution required a specific addition to the basic text of 1815, which said: 'Everyone who is in the territory has an equal right to protection of persons and property'. You can also see the text there in the room. In 1983 the government added the text: 'Discrimination for religion, belief, political orientation, race or sex is not permitted'. With Marcus Bakker's amendment, which has already been mentioned, the Chamber added "or on any ground," in line with the text of the ECHR. The fact that it was found necessary to be more precise than the text that had been recorded, undoubtedly had to do with growing awareness in the 1960s and 1970s of the extent and intensity of the atrocities of national socialism. I've already said that. That pernicious ideology had shown a complete contempt for the principle of equality and systematically discriminated against people with the gas chambers in the extermination camps as a result. As a symbol that such an unworthy thing should never happen again, the explicit anchoring and definition of the prohibition of discrimination in 1983 indeed had great social value. The addition "on whatever basis" made by the Parliament responded to the criticism of the Council of State, among others, that the listing of grounds for discrimination might give the impression that it was a new restrictive provision rather than a general ban. Mr. Chairman. Almost 40 years after Article 1 was last amended, we are discussing a new amendment today. It aims to explicitly state that discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation is prohibited. We do not record this because such discrimination would now be allowed. On the contrary, through different laws, that door has long been thrown into the lock, and rightly so. But, as in 1983, the symbolic value, as can be seen in the explanatory memorandum, is also underlined by the current defenders of the bill. As in 1983, we must now ask ourselves whether the lack of practical value is sufficient reason to put aside the symbolic value that exists. In doing so, we have come to the question of whether the mention of forms of discrimination on the table, considered, strengthens or reduces the power of the article. The question is understandable. The fact that it is shared by respectable former politicians such as Bas de Gaay Fortman and Coos Huijsen, who certainly have to be counted among the defenders of the essence of Article 1, is all the more reason to take a good look at it, even today. I also ask the defenders of the bill. On the other hand, Article 14 of the ECHR also contains a long list, which in practice is not regarded as restrictive, neither by the national courts nor by the European Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, as the current Article 1 is no reason for the Dutch legislator to treat discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation differently from other forms of discrimination. So it is not a law of Medes and Persians that is briefly and succinctly better than a little more explaining with a symbolic explanation. Mr. Chairman. All things considered, my group believes that the symbolic value in this case may prevail over the practical value. The objective of an inclusive society in which people with disabilities are entitled to equal treatment is underlined by the inclusion of the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability. Organisations of people with disabilities We have often been able to see them in our halls. Therefore, their long social struggle for inclusiveness will be appreciated. This also applies to the inclusion of a ban on discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. Organisations committed to equal treatment for all people, despite sexual orientation, are happy to say yes to this bill here today. For them too, it is the appreciation of the legislator for a long social struggle for equality. The SP has always liked to support this social struggle. Fortunately, as the initiators and current defenders say, a great deal has already happened to ban discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation from social life, but we are far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u58	I have a question for Mr Kox. Does he himself believe that the addition we are talking about will strengthen or weaken the Constitution? And perhaps I would like to put my question a little more explicitly. We had a little debate this morning on whether there should be a statement in the Constitution. In the end, the answer was no. But I now hear Mr Kox saying: that symbolic value is actually very important. Is the Constitution a place suitable for the symbolic value? That Constitution lies as a foundation under our constitutional law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u59	The answer to Mr Schalk's question is: yes. Our Constitution is to a large extent a symbolic law. Someone just said that we are testing our laws against the Constitution. We do not do that in our country: the Constitution is above the laws, but we cannot allow our Constitution to be judged by the courts. Fortunately, at the ECHR, you could say. But yes, the Constitution is a very symbolic law. It is not one of the drawing tables, it is a well-established constitution, but our Constitution was formed in an organic process from 1815 until now. In that Constitution, we have tried to write down as well as possible what is now essential for our society. And that's symbolism, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u60	The risk, if we call it symbolism, is that we do not do justice to what the Constitution really means. I agree, of course, with Mr Kox that we cannot allow that Constitution to be reviewed by the judge and so on. But every citizen can rely on the Constitution, and that is what is happening in practice. In that case, I find the symbolic value insufficient to reflect what the Constitution is aiming at. My question is, of course, whether Mr Kox can clarify and clarify this a little, so that we are both on the strength of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u61	I have not for nothing referred to people like Bas de Gaay Fortman and Coos Huijsen, who have given this a lot of thought. I mean the young De Gaay Fortman, who is also very old nowadays. There is something to say to make the Constitution much more compact. But we do not, we have to deal with the Constitution we have. That is why I would point out that in this consideration there are no practical values, because we have already regulated them in other laws and international conventions, there is no reason to consider the symbolic value not important enough here. I know too many people, Mr. Schalk, who, as I said earlier, are walking around with a scratch on the soul because they were thrown away by others, sometimes by fellow citizens, sometimes by organizations, sometimes by employers and sometimes by the government as being of less value because they were different. I think it is very important that, if we add these two groups here, we at least put balm on that soul in a large group of our people and that those people can say: it is in the Constitution, I am worth as much as anyone else. I think that's important. Then you stay on whether you have to do an ever longer article 1, or whether you would do an ever shorter article 1. We can talk about this, but in this case I think that is mainly an academic discussion, which is also worth having. But right now, there's a concrete bill before you and I have to weigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u62	In recent years, I have listened with incredible respect to Mr Kox when, as foreman of all of us in this house, he stood up for the rule of law. Why would he make the Constitution so small to give it a symbolic value in particular? Why is he making today's initiative so small by saying: what we are doing has nothing but symbolic value? I'm sorry about that. I've been looking for what could move him, and I understand him here and there. Because if you don't have to, you could call it "symbolic." But if you take the word'symbolically' as 'yes, let's do it', then I really think it is a depreciation, not only of the initiative proposal, but also of our Constitution. That's why I come to the microphone for the first time, I believe for the first time in my existence. Is this no longer an anchoring of something that we consider to be very important in the most important document we know in our country? Doesn't that actually constitute some kind of support bear to hold on to what's behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u63	I fully agree with Mr Rombouts. Only, we often use the word "symbol legislation" here because we say something in a formal law to give or say something to a citizen, while in practice that will lead to nothing. When I talk about the symbol value of the Constitution, I am talking about something quite different, and I am talking about what needs to be written down, what needs to be anchored in this country. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We hadden die tekst daar staan sinds 1815 en het is goed dat we na de Tweede Wereldoorlog na een lang proces hebben gezegd: we moeten het nog iets meer verankeren.]] Equality before the law, everyone is equal before the law; that also means: you will not discriminate, not for that reason, not for this reason, on any ground, for that means equal before the law. So I fully agree with Mr Rombouts: the word'symbol value' has been used by me here precisely because I think that it goes beyond the possible practical values that are, after all, already enshrined in the rest of our legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u64	Mr Kox is turning a bit, because he just said: it is mainly symbolic, our Constitution, especially symbolic use. At the same time, he drags in the greatest horrors of our history, but to make the importance of this particular wording of Article 1 of the Constitution as very important and, in fact, unchanging, or at least not short-term. But now I would like to hear from Mr Kox: is it a symbolic Constitution; is it such a symbolic effect that all these horrors need to be dragged into it, or should it be a strong Constitution that also has a strong scope? Because this can't both be the case if he puts it in such a heavy context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u65	I used to be mostly educated in dialectics; then you can drag one and drag the other, and that can very well go with each other. But Mr Van Hattem's remark was: do you really have to drag those terrible things into it when we talk about this? Yeah, we're gonna have to drag that one in. That is the history of this constitutional article. Read the history of that article of the constitution, see how we say after the Second World War: how could it have been possible, when there was equality before the law in all kinds of laws, that there have been these terrible derailments, and how should we prevent that? This led to the ECHR, which led to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which led to Article 1 of this Constitution. We must be proud of that, and that is why we are extending that provision. On behalf of my group, I will be voting in favour of this. And the symbolic value of this is something other than symbolic politics of which many Dutch people are extremely large. You could also take that to heart. You should also know the people who say that it is good that it is still being incorporated into the Constitution, even though its practical value is not so great because we have already laid it down in other legislation and other international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u66	Then I actually come to the crux: the practical value is not that great. So those misconceptions that you bring in, which rightly must be prevented at all times, do not prevent you with a symbolic piece of legislation. And that's the problem. You are making very heavy words for amending this article of the Constitution. And when I say 'it must be limited to the core of everyone is equal before the law', which we simply support, do you say that those who advocated a limited wording in the seventies, for example Piet van der Sanden of the CFP, who at the time argued for a limited wording of this constitutional article, so all those who were in favour of it, were also in the wrong non-legal form?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u67	Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u68	I saw this especially with Martin Bosma, that Piet van der Sanden has now become a kind of witness à charge or à décharge, depending on how you look at it from the PVV. But Van der Sanden was a member of the KVP, and later the CDA agreed to Article 1, in its new wording, of the Constitution. So we don't care about all those good Catholics. They also agreed to this proposal. And don't worry, there was then a great battle in which the left-wing Joop den Uyl pushed against the cliffs on the right-hand side. That has not been discussed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u69	Now we are really going to repeat a bit of debate. We're not gonna do that. Given the time, no more interruptions at this time. You still have a piece to go? Then I'd be happy to give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had stopped saying, 'We are far from combating discrimination', and I think we are almost all in agreement here. My group is pleased that the original text of the initiative law, which referred to 'heterosexual or homosexual orientation' at the request of my party colleague Jasper van Dijk, has turned into'sexual orientation'. The original text of 2010, however well-intentioned, could once again lead to an appearance of exclusion of some from the protection of Article 1. The new wording, which the defenders of the initiative proposal are in favour of, is broader and therefore better. Mr. Chairman. We support the proposal as it stands at first reading. It would be nice if a lot of groups were to decide the same thing today. I hope that the doubts that exist among some can be removed today. That is a nice challenge for when we start listening to the first term of our Dutch colleagues and the Minister's reaction. Mr. Chairman. Finally, may I ask the Minister what is the situation with regard to the proposed amendment of the General Law on Equal Treatment and the Code of Criminal Law in response to the adopted amendment by Jasper van Dijk on the introduction of the term "sexual orientation"? It would be nice if we could get everything tracked together as much as possible. Not because it leads to huge problems, but because it is good for the quality of legislation if we use the same terms as much as possible. The minister started it, I've seen, but it's been a long time. The question is when this project will be completed and when, as a State-General, we can expect its legislative proposal on this matter. Mr President, I look forward to hearing what I have been able to say on behalf of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Finally, we have arrived at Mr Baljeu, who will make his maiden speech today. You know that there will be no interruptions. He will speak on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the initiative legislative proposal for the extension of non-discrimination grounds in Article 1 GW. The first steps for this initiative proposal were taken in 2010. After that, nothing happened to this initiative for many years, because the initiators from 2010 were not re-elected during the 2012 Lower House elections. So you can see how important individuals can be in creating political renewal. With this conviction I have also spent years, together with a number of people here in the room, working in a close team on the much-needed political renewal with the aim of achieving more modern and better governance of the Netherlands. Unfortunately, as we all know, this initiative was then ruined by a radicalized narcissist, helped by a bunch of over-ambitious job hunters without a political clue. Mr. Chairman. Article 1 of our current Constitution is indirectly linked to our first Constitution of 1798, the State Arrangement for the Batavian People. It was not until 1983 that the current Article 1 was incorporated into our Constitution. Until then, Article 1 was formed by the text that you can read here on the mantelpiece of the Knight's Room, the text from the Constitution of 1848. But the so-called State Order of 1798, the first constitution of the Netherlands, still leaves deep traces in our current Constitution. Every citizen became equal before the law without distinction of birth, possession, rank or rank and got freedom of expression, printing press, assembly and religion. The separation between the representative, the executive and the judiciary, as well as the separation between church and state, was laid down in the State Order. This was a huge modernisation of the Netherlands in 1798. Today we are discussing the extension of the non-discrimination ground in Article 1 of the GW of 1983, namely the extension to include "disability" and "sexual orientation." According to the initiators and the Minister, the time of constitutional maturity has now come to include these exclusion grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution. Our group recognises the constitutional maturity of these grounds for exclusion. Discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation is, of course, unacceptable. At the same time, this also raises the question of "a prayer without end and randomness," as someone said during the discussion of this proposal in the House of Representatives, there may also be many other reasons why people can be discriminated against, which are not now included in Article 1, even after the new grounds for exclusion have been added. My question to the proposers and the Minister is whether they have a lower priority. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the horizontal and vertical effects of Article 1. Vertical means: between the government and the citizens. Horizontal concerns the workings between citizens. How do the proposers see this horizontal effect in practice? Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the issue of legal protection. In Article 1 of the GW, the Minister distinguishes three types of legal protection: legal protection against the legislator, social protection and judicial protection. How do the proposers and the minister in practice see this legal protection taking shape now that the courts under Article 120 of the Constitution are not allowed to review the laws against the Constitution and there is no constitutional court in the Netherlands, unlike most of the other countries around us? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the interaction between Article 1 and Article 3 of the Constitution. These articles are difficult to separate from each other. Article 3 of the Constitution states: "All Dutch citizens can be named on an equal footing in public service'. When we look at the practical implementation of this Article 3, in conjunction with Article 1, we see that anything can be done better in the Netherlands. Article 1 also has political orientation as one of the explicit exclusions for non-discrimination. The comparison with the constitutions of other countries shows that this particular exclusion ground, political conviction, is very often incorporated into constitutions. But in practice this provision is often a dead letter in the Netherlands. Take, for example, the mayors in the Netherlands. Almost all of them are appointed from a small pond of persons based on their political orientation. A party such as the Labour Party, which accounts for only 6% of MPs, has about one third of mayors, including two of the four major cities, Rotterdam and Utrecht. The same applies mutatis mutandis to parties such as VVD, CDA and D66. Does only the party framework of this limited number of parties have the unique talent required for such functions? We see the same in the appointment of directors. Certainly the current corona crisis has made that painfully clear. Directors are selected from a small pool of the party framework of coalition parties. If the corona crisis has shown anything, then it is that there is broad consensus emerging in the Netherlands that we need to have the best people in those positions, with knowledge of things and with determination. Mr. Chairman. The authors of the 1798 scheme had already seen that very clearly. There was included in Article 15 on the fulfilment of public office, and I quote: 'The choice of one citizen, above the other, is based solely on several virtues and abilities'. If there is any need for positive discrimination in the Netherlands, this is, as far as our group is concerned, first of all in the area of the application of Article 1 of the Constitution in conjunction with Article 3, in order to correct the unilateral process of appointment to the public administration and, above all, to appoint people on the basis of their competences rather than just their political orientation. As far as my group is concerned, this is one of the most important priorities in the formation of the new cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u73	Thank you, Mr. Baljeu. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Last month Mr Raven was installed on one and the same day and made his maiden speech. That was a unique thing. Nor has it occurred to my knowledge that on the last day of the meeting before he says goodbye as a member of the First Chamber, someone still has his maiden speech. You can at least write that scoop on your conto! This unique has to do with the fact that you are a temporary member of this Chamber in connection with Mrs Nanninga's maternity leave. Allow me to outline some of your background. Since 2010, you have owned Turning Point, a healthcare and information technology consulting firm. Before that, you worked as a team leader at the Royal Army and as a manager at Sikkes International and Getronics. From 2016 to 2019 you were involved in the recruitment and training of candidate politicians at Forum voor Democracy. In the summer of 2019 you joined the Otten Group in the First Chamber and in September of the same year you became a member of the party board of GO, as the Otten Group is called outside this Chamber. To Mr. Otten's pleasure, I'd like to say it now. Your political career also started in 2019. Since 29 March of that year you have been a member of the Provincial States of North Holland, first on behalf of the Forum for Democracy and since May 2019 as an independent group. On 15 December 2020, you became a member of the Upper House. On the website of GO you will explain why you are politically active. In your opinion, and I quote, 'it is high time for our country to be better governed and more attention to the main lines rather than all kinds of side issues. It is time for decisive action." Today you gave your first, and at the same time your final, test in this Chamber. I wish you every success in your other work in politics and within your party. Congratulations again on your maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting so that I can, of course, congratulate you on behalf of all my fellow Members at a distance of 1.5 metres. I would also like to give your group chairman the opportunity to congratulate you personally. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations. I would ask Members to remain seated for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-9.u74	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
