ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I warmly welcome the leaders: the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I have just agreed with Members to keep the questions particularly for the cabinet and to be a little reluctant towards each other. We shall then proceed to a good substantive debate. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Agema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u2	It is your plan that we do not start today until 4.45 p.m. and that is, of course, very unfortunate. It would be my proposal to just move on tomorrow if we don't figure it out tonight. Our concern is now falling apart and a lot of people in the country are very worried about it. So I'd say no obstacles and no restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u3	I've just spoken informally with the MPs about how we can work today. It is a busy week with the budgets, including for the agendas of the directors. So we came up with this, but we're just going to have a good debate. I have called on the Members of Parliament to be wary of interrupting each other and to ask questions mainly to the Cabinet, because the Members have been speaking more often lately. I also appeal to the Prime Minister and the other directors to skip introductions and to really only answer the questions of the Members of Parliament. That is really the purpose of this debate. It is an important subject, so I really appeal to the Members of Parliament to meet in it. Then we'll get started soon. I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD. And I have another supplement. We agreed to have a look at how far we are around 10:00. Another agreement is that six questions can be put to the directors in the first period. I call Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's cold and wet outside and dark early. But although it was best to stay inside the last few days, I would have liked that we could have made that choice ourselves and that the virus is not still around value. But it is still necessary, because we see that the increasing levels of contamination have dire consequences in our nursing homes. We see surgeries being postponed, sometimes for the second or third time. This is about brain surgery, but people and children with cancer also have to wait a long time, and that is, of course, terrible. That is why the VVD supports the package of stricter measures that the cabinet has had to introduce in order to flatten the peak in infections, no matter how much we understand that it requires a lot of people, from people at home, but also from the entrepreneurs who were just starting up again. But we cannot accept the consequences of the current peak on our care. We don't have a choice. We need to intervene. I'd like to hear from the cabinet if this package is enough to hand out that hard punch to the virus. And how long do we have to keep up this package if we want to get back to the levels of contamination that are manageable? Can we use this to transfer code black? And are there sufficient measures for the nursing homes to ensure that the virus cannot continue to circulate there without letting the vulnerable go into Christmas again without visiting in solitude? What's the status of enforcement? We're not doing this for nothing. Deal's a deal. So what do we do if entrepreneurs still don't check the QR code? Why not close cases when they refuse to check over and over again? Why don't we pass fines more often to people who don't wear a mask, or don't we give those people an O.V. ban? How do we maintain the urgent advice to work at home? Enforcement is now too thin and too little visible. As far as we're concerned, that should be better. Mr. Chairman. Then the schools. I understand that we are doing our utmost to keep them open, because we know what the consequences are for students and their parents when they close. At the same time, the VVD is concerned that we are asking a lot of questions from, for example, the catering industry and the cultural sector, especially given that a large proportion of the contamination is in the schools at the moment. A few questions about that. What did the cabinet do with the OMT advice to consider starting the Christmas holiday a week earlier, for example in exchange for a week less summer holiday? Why wasn't that chosen? My group wonders whether this would not be a good idea. I'd like a response from the cabinet. We also hear sounds from education that it is impossible to sustain in some schools. I understand they can decide independently to close if safety is at stake or if it is no longer organized. Can it be communicated more clearly? It seems to us to be a good thing that schools also take responsibility; see also the examples in Lippenhuizen and Oudega, where they have decided to close the schools and have joined the associations in those villages. It's kind of a voluntary lockdown, with results. How will the cabinet promote such initiatives if necessary? Mr. Chairman. We're dealing with another virus variant, Omikron. People from very high-risk areas who travel here are tested in advance and have to be quarantined, but this system does not seem waterproof. What does it take to make it compulsory to test people on arrival in the case of a new virus variant? And what about the so-called germ surveillance, i.e. the detection of the omicron variant but also of new mutants in the Netherlands and Europe? The VVD would like to have a roadmap for possible situations in new suspicious variants, such as the situation with the planes from South Africa. In such a schematic, appointments around testing and tracing could be included, as could the standard use of a quarantine hotel. I'd like a response from the cabinet. The demand for self-tests is huge, by the way. They are now sold out in a large number of shops. How can we ensure that this capacity is put in place, also given that self-tests are an increasingly important part of the corona policy, such as in education? And how do we ensure that the test capacity at the GGD is not a limiting factor? Then the booster. Good thing we started earlier than planned, but we're in a hurry. It's good to have the DOD on for even more acceleration. But the VVD likes to see a further acceleration, with the aim: all 60-plussers a booster in 2021. What other gear options are there? Are there any commercial parties or pharmacists we can use? And how do we prepare for 2022 and 2023 if a fourth or fifth shot is needed? The VVD would like to see a plan for this, combined with a plan for testing and tracing in 2022 and beyond. What about reaching the non-vaccine groups, especially the 50-plussers? Experience shows that the more trusted the prick, the more people are inclined to take the vaccination. See also the example of the pharmacist in Oosterwolde. Are general practitioners and pharmacists involved in this? Mr. Chairman. Unvaccinated and vaccinated: we all have our own responsibility to protect ourselves, but also each other. This can be done by having you vaccinated and by taking that booster, but also by keeping to the basic rules: staying at home and testing, working at home, keeping away, washing hands, ventilating, even if you have been vaccinated. I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. We all have a hard time ahead of us again. Let's stick to the agreements; we don't have them for nothing. At the same time, we must stand side by side and support each other wherever we can, including our care staff and the enforcers, because they are having a hard time. Aggression, which is even in the hospitals, is absolutely not okay. Just act normal, 'cause these months are dark enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. There is a question from Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u6	I hear Mrs De Vries say that we see the need for action and, unfortunately, it is necessary. Like it's some kind of natural phenomenon and not a scenario we could see coming together. I would like to ask her what she, from the largest government party, has done lately to steer the cabinet and to keep it sharp, and perhaps to prevent us from going into this scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u7	I think it is very important that we keep looking at each other continuously. I'm sure something will have gone wrong with us as well. We look very closely at what the consultants, the experts advise us, and always consider the economic consequences and the consequences for well-being. And quite frankly, if I looked back, I probably would have liked to maintain the basic rules of the 1.5 meters and the mouth cap for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u8	I am very pleased that this is being said, because as a Chamber we have to look very closely at our own role. It is also sometimes frustrating to see that a narrow majority of the House does not support proposals. For example, Mr Hijink, Mrs Kuik, myself and a number of other parties have put forward proposals. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries what she is going to do in the coming period. Is it going to look seriously at proposals submitted by smaller parties other than her own, with a view to curbing that virus? And does she want to make sure that we in the Chamber can really control the government better over the next few weeks and months than has happened in recent times?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u9	I'm always willing to do that. In recent times too, I have always looked at whether there are any good proposals and whether we could perhaps give a little more space or perhaps take tougher measures. That is always a discussion with us in the group, even if there are proposals from here. But we do weigh what the experts advise us, and what the consequences are for the economy and for the well-being of people. Sometimes the parties can come to a different balance. I find it difficult to explain why, when we see that things are going better, we do not want to scale down the measures in order to avoid all the risks. I have just said something about the basic rules in recent times and how I look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u10	In the broader consideration that Mrs De Vries mentioned, we see that the cabinet proposes that sports be made virtually impossible at the moment. When it comes to the well-being of citizens and their mental but also physical health, we see that sports have an important role to play. How did that trade-off go with the VVD anyway? Are mental and physical health arising from sports less important?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u11	No, definitely not. Absolutely not. We believe that sports and exercise are very important and can contribute to the fitness of people and their resilience. But it is true that we are currently suffering from very high levels of contamination. And then you have to take action. If you're not taking a measure somewhere, you're gonna have to take a measure somewhere else. Nor is it, as you say, that there could be no more sports at all. I'd really find that a problem. It is fine to move in the evenings or to be active during the day in the gyms and at sports clubs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u12	I didn't say "not at all impossible" either, but "almost impossible." Let's get a situation out of it. On weekends there is football on the fields, but for that it is necessary for people to train. And since a lot of people work from nine to five during the day, it is no longer possible for them to train outdoors. From scientific research we know that virus spread hardly occurs in the outdoors. Then why do you have to use that rigorous measuring rod to make outdoor sports impossible after five o'clock?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u13	I also made it very clear in the previous debate that we do not think there are any easy choices anymore. Any action we take at the moment hurts. The catering industry is also in pain because we went from eight to five hours. I think culture also hurts because there are no more performances in the evening. In the end, that's a total weighing down. We have often talked here about clarity, simplicity of rules, clarity and simple communication. Then one final time is very easy in communication, no matter how much it hurts me that we have to take these measures. Any other measure would hurt, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u15	I hear Mrs De Vries say that she had made other considerations with the knowledge of today. Moving insight is beautiful. I also hear Mrs De Vries say that she would have thought it was crazy too. I paraphrase if we had not left things loose at the moment when things were going well. I am looking back at the past almost two years and wondering at what point Mrs De Vries thought: it is going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u16	I think that during the summer, around the summer, we had a number of moments in which relaxation was possible. But it's also a bit easy to ignore... Suppose the advice is that there is more space. It would be strange to say to an entrepreneur in the hospitality sector or the event sector: yes, but we still want to keep doing this and continue with these measures, to be sure. I myself find it difficult to explain to the people of the country. If the infections are going in the right direction and the levels of infection are low, it is very difficult to explain to people and to support them in order to maintain the measures to further reduce the infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u17	Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that, if anything is needed at the time of a crisis, that vision is? You can't control a crisis in the next week or two weeks. That also requires a long-term vision. If Mrs De Vries looks back with the knowledge of today, does she not see that with the moments she now says it went well and that she also had to think about the catering entrepreneur, the same catering entrepreneur is much further away from home today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u18	I can see that catering entrepreneurs are having a very hard time, but I think we should also be honest with each other. I'd like to offer perspective. I'd like to offer people long-term security. I want to clarify very far ahead, but the honest answer is that we simply cannot do that with this virus at the moment. I think very few people would have predicted that with such a vaccination rate we would still have these numbers of infections and that this delta variant would be there and that we are now dealing with a new virus variant again. As much as I would like to put all those dots on the horizon, as much as I would like to make it quite clear in advance, I think that is very complicated with this erratic virus and however erratic our own behavior may be. Let's be honest about that, too. Sometimes it is indeed a bit of sailing in the fog. And that's what it's been lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party. Then we go to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u20	We have learned from research by the Volkskrant that there have been at least 10,000 infections from air passengers and that this is the tip of the iceberg in the last year and a half. A new virus variant has now come our way, also in aircraft and by travel movements. We see Mr Van Dissel this morning in his powerpoint presentation that the same number of infections comes from travel and holidays as from the catering industry. I missed an advice from this cabinet at the press conference last week to stop flying. I wonder whether Mrs De Vries of the VVD missed that opinion as well, because we know that there are serious risks involved in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u21	I wouldn't be in favour of saying no more flying at all. I think we'd hit a lot of people with that, too. I think we should look at what we can do about it. I didn't ask about the playbook for nothing. It gave quite a messy impression, let me put it this way. I think it's important that we can force people to come back and have a test done. I understand that this is not legally possible yet, but I would be in favour of this type of case with a new variant. In all the measures we already have, such as double testing in high-risk areas, we can add this. Many areas are already on orange and then the advice is not to travel. Not flying at all is not a choice we would make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u22	It's not what I said, but I think we should look at travel restrictions. I believe that it is also being discussed in Europe. I am surprised that we are imposing these strict and strict measures on the catering industry: 'you must close' or 'you must close at 5 p.m.'. When it comes to flying, air traffic and having the opportunity to still get on the plane, it is still allowed, while the same number of infections follows, and they are high, as in the hospitality industry. I don't understand why we give airlines a different position than the catering industry, even though we see that the percentages are exactly the same. Perhaps Mrs De Vries will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u23	We are not saying that the catering industry should be completely closed. They need to close to a large extent. That really hits her. I think it is also the case that we have arranged a number of things around the journey. You also have another component to deal with when travelling. People can fly through other airports, so no more flying to the Netherlands is not a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. Gynecologists sound the alarm. The number of unvaccinated pregnant women in the intensive care wards is increasing. There are babies who urgently need to be picked up with a C-section while the mothers are artificially kept in a coma. They're terrible stories. These are stories that remind us that we haven't convinced enough people to get vaccinated. That is incredibly sinful for all those who could have been spared an ic-recording, for all those in care who have returned to an insane winter and for all those who once again see their freedom restricted by this evening lockdown. I asked in September what we're gonna do if the hospitals are filling up again. The answer is now clear, because after 5 p.m. almost everything is completely closed for everyone. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet often gets blamed too late for taking action in this pandemic. And it's often justified. We need to get more first shots. We need to start boostering faster. We need to test more. I'll get to that in a minute. But I want to look around me, too. Do we dare to make choices in this Chamber? Because of heart and cancer patients who don't get their turn. For the sake of the many entrepreneurs who want to keep their business running. For the sake of all the culture makers who crave full rooms. For the sake of children and students who come to their senses in the classroom. For the sake of the freedom of all of us. I call on colleagues: dare to make choices. Please let us take responsibility for getting out of this hibernation as soon as possible. I do not want us to record the longest lockdown in Europe in the Netherlands. And yes, then the conversation about 2G comes around the corner. Mr. Chairman. I told you, we need to vaccinate more, booster faster, test more often, but also communicate tighter. At the press conference, the Prime Minister and the Minister took matters into their own hands. Compliments for that! But still, why does the Prime Minister and the Minister get out of the elevator together at that press conference without mouth caps? Correct me if I'm wrong, but they don't belong to one household, do they? I continue to have questions about the other points. Why isn't the vaccination rate rising faster? Why were we also sentenced to a catch-up race in the boosters? I get déjà vues from spring. Can we agree that from January onwards the boosters will be open to all, with free access? Why is there no test capacity, if we were already shouting in the summer: we are going to test everyone with complaints? (NL) Mr President, education. I am glad that, at our request, the Minister for Basic and Continuing Education is also there. I'm also glad the schools stay open. Not every home situation is nice, not every home is safe, so schools deserve our top priority. Why not, to keep it as safe as possible, better protect the teachers? With mouth caps, with fresh air, with CO meters that monitor air quality, as in Belgium. Why not provide self-tests for the entire primary school, as the OMT recommended, and not just from the fifth grade? If there is a shortage of self-testing, shouldn't we go elsewhere to get it, for example when testing for access? The OMT recommended Christmas holidays a week earlier. Like Mrs De Vries, I say: make sure that we clarify this in good time. Of course, we prefer to have the schools open, but there is a real need for clarity. This should not be decided at the last minute. The question that hangs in the air is: are we going into lockdown every winter? We have to do everything we can to prevent that. When I look abroad, I take a practical part in it. Ventilation in schools, better timing of boosters, already extra flu shots, resilient ic capacity, much more cooperation with Europe and quick response to variants. Can we agree today that the preparation for the next winter will begin? Can we actually agree today that more flu shots and those boosters will be ready in October next year? And that the ventilation at all schools then fully meets the standards and is measured by CO-meters? And that we act directly when a new, thoughtful variant presents itself? Friday was quick to act, after the news about omikron. That was very good. But the show at Schiphol Airport was a mess. That's gotta be better. Will the Minister amend the law so that there is the possibility to require people to test upon arrival in special situations? Will the Minister in Europe argue that anyone who wants to travel to Europe has first taken a PCR test? When will the 22 million shots we promised to COVAX finally be deployed in Africa? Mr President, two final points. One: Can the Prime Minister explain why sports at 1.5 meters outside can't be done at night? I get a lot of questions about that. Two: the vaccines for children between 5 and 11 have now been approved at European level, so they are safe and effective. For all children, the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. Parents of children with cystic fibrosis, with asthma or with another chronic disease crave it. Countries like Germany have already started. Let's start this week for vulnerable children. Give parents in the Netherlands the freedom to choose. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u26	An interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u27	I have a question about the measures that are now being taken throughout the package. What frustrates me is that we, as the House of Representatives, have very little grip for a year and a half, very little insight into the effects of measures as proposed by the OMT. We're getting a package presented at the press conference. If requested, the OMT or RIVM cannot properly indicate the impact of certain measures. To put it concretely, we would very much like to exempt sport activities today, especially for young people and children, from the 5 p.m. rule. Movement is important. We don't want to meet these kids. But the point is: if I asked the cabinet, the Prime Minister would say: yes, but if we do, we'll dive under the advice of the OMT and we can never get started on that. I would like the OMT to present scenarios: what can we do if we want to steer towards a rapid reduction, what can we do if we want to stabilise, etc.? Several scenarios, including packages of measures, in which we can see: this is the effect of a measure and so you could exchange them. For example, more measures in commercial sectors so that we can let young people and children work out. Does Mr Paternotte understand that consideration and would like to submit a proposal with the SP that the cabinet should submit the request to the RIVM to advise packages in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u28	I understand the SP's concern about outdoor sports. We've had an exception before for kids who wanted to work out outside. There isn't one right now. A lot of people run into that. In many changing rooms it is now busy during the day, which means there is less spread. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister why this is helpful. I also understand his desire to get a sort of lockdown à la carte with the OMT advice. So you can see what the alternatives are to the measures that are now in place, so that you can make a political assessment. At the same time, I am a little unhappy about the idea that there would be even more lockdown measures on the table. That's why we've said we're really open to thinking about things like wider use of corona tickets or 2G. We do not want any lockdown measures at all, but we want to stay open as much as possible. We want people to be able to do things again and get back to places. I think it's a lot to ask the OMT not only to give advice on how to get the R-value below 1 and control the infection, but also to present a whole menu. I understand what Mr Hijink is asking, but I think it is very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u29	It's not about the tickets right now. I am concerned that we in the House of Representatives have had no grip for a year and a half and no vision of the measures proposed by the OMT. One and a half years after that, we should be able to say something about certain measures: if you do this, it will have about that effect, assuming that people comply with the rules. Nor do I want to advocate all kinds of exceptions. But I would like us to be able to discuss with the cabinet the social consequences of the measures proposed. If it is proposed to close all the sport after 5:00 p.m., I would like to hear from the Cabinet: if we do not, what can we do in another place to ensure that we push down those contamination rates? That is what I am concerned about, not the specific measures that are currently being taken. Can we not organise it in such a way that we can conduct the public, social debate that needs to be conducted on the effects of the policy here much more precisely and that we are not entirely dependent on the blackbox of OMT's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u30	I understand the question and I also wonder what the Prime Minister's answer to it is. But the OMT needs to deliver an opinion in a very short time, the core of which is how we can ensure that we control the infections, without completely shutting down society; preferably as soon as possible. That advice is clear. You can also see that the measures seem to have an effect, because the R-number is falling. Two weeks ago, it was 1.05. I don't want there to be a whole menu with lockdown measures, so we talk about it all the time, while I want to talk about how we can get out of those lockdown measures again. I'd like to hear what the possibilities are. I understand that you say that you want to make a social assessment and that you want to have choices, but in the end it will probably amount to things that Mrs Kuik has proposed, such as the entire retail sector of non-essential shops. Those kind of measures. Because there's not much else to come up with to scale things down. Access cards, mouth caps, 1.5 metres and also two-thirds must be closed for the catering industry. I'm talking to a lot of catering entrepreneurs who say they're gonna close all over again. Then it is very difficult to calculate the effect of a situation in the hospitality industry which already leads to a lot of things closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. Never before have there been so many people infected with corona. Our care is failing. The intensive cares are filling up. The hospitals now provide almost 3,000 corona patients. Operations are canceled and investigations postponed. GPs and home care are no longer able to cope with the influx of corona patients. There are now more nursing homes where corona reigns than ever and the mortality among our elders is increasing. Fortunately, the reproduction number has fallen significantly, but it can still go completely wrong. With an evening lockdown, the cabinet wants to turn the tide. During the press conference, the Prime Minister imposed a mess of anti-freedom measures on us. Why does he always choose to complain about what we should do, but does he not explain when he thinks he can reverse the crisis by reducing movements? Why doesn't he say that the virus jumps over when people meet and breathe each other's breath? And that we shouldn't meet at all when our care collapses, as we do now. Not even if you've been vaccinated. Direct communication is more effective than pushing up a whole package of different rules over and over again. The concept of "breath circle" comes from Minister De Jonge. It is a brilliant concept, because it carries so much more meaning in it than such a plastic one-and-a-half meter rule. Then use it. The masks also appear to be a missed opportunity. International comparative studies on 72 relevant scientific studies show that mouth caps can halve the number of infections. Of course there's a big overlap in this with the right ventilation. As long as it is not in order and the need is so high, it makes sense to wear it. But everywhere in inner spaces where people meet, and not outside, where the risk of infection is virtually nil and scumbags abuse them to undermine detection. Through the evening lockdown part of the meetings moves home. We've known for a long time that most infections occur in home settings. It is therefore once again a missed chance that the Prime Minister did not point out during the press conference that he would be ventilating during his visit. My group is in favour of voluntary vaccination. Anyone who wants a third shot should be able to get it. Then give it to me in time. Now it's too late. We're chasing the facts again. Why can the British, Belgians, Germans and Israelis do it and we can't? If those boosters had gone along with the flu shot through the GP, they'd already be set. Now hundreds of vaccinees have ended up in the hospital unnecessarily. Now the care collapses. Now society is locked up. Put your hand in your own bosom, Minister De Jonge, and don't blame the Health Council. At least the corona pass has to be stopped. It offers false security. In the United Kingdom, transmission rates in all age groups are now higher for vaccinees than for unvaccinated. We're not there yet, but there's no other virus out there than here. So there is no such thing as safe shopping or safe going out. There are infectiouss everywhere, vaccinated or not. Look at the drama of the clover jacket day in Sappemeer with 27 infections and 1 death, or at the outing of former roommates with 50% infections. On both trips everyone was vaccinated and everyone had a corona pass. Corona tickets also increase the number of infections, because some people are trying to get a proof of recovery and therefore corona admission. There's even been contagion parties. Denying this phenomenon and continuing with the corona admission ticket may well be taking an irresponsible risk. Finally, my heart cry, which I would have liked to have done last Friday on the Op1 television programme. For those who are older or at risk: do not meet in the next few weeks. If you do see each other, make sure the virus doesn't jump over. Don't come into each other's breathing circle and wear a mouth cap, even if you've been vaccinated. My big concern is that there won't be a place for you later. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, take care of it. Stop the demolition, invest in people, stuff and buildings. Don't be surprised at another corona attack every time, Minister, and then continue on the same footing. Stand for care, clear money for catching up. Remove the hospitals from 0% volume growth. Be prepared for great things and arrange things that seem small, such as the fact that ICU nurses can park at the hospital at night. Improve the working conditions for all our nurses and nurses. Don't stick to fine words. I expect substantial investment in the new coalition agreement. It's our concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone expected additional measures, with the increase in figures, but the disappointment and certainly the setback for the catering industry, the cultural sector and sport is no less. It is a good thing that the cabinet will at least arrange support packages until the end of the year. Young people also have to endure it again, because with mouth caps, self-tests and walkways at the school the carelessness is gone again. The CDA therefore hopes for a support package for young people with, for example, a postponement of a binding study opinion. To what extent is it possible to allow outside sports for young people under 21 years of age a little later than 5 p.m.? I receive a lot of e-mails about that. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, in the news, how important it is for pregnant women to be vaccinated. What action will the Minister take to reach out to them in particular? It's a good thing the booster shot is accelerated. In spring, elderly people with chronic illness received the vaccine rather than their peers. Is that gonna happen to the booster again? Many general practitioners take a lot of time to call patients to take away doubts and still have to be vaccinated. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that they are sufficiently rewarded? Can the Minister ensure that there is a vaccine location in each hospital so that doctors, if they have convinced people, can also refer immediately? What is the state of play with regard to the development of a traditional vaccine, such as Valneva, which can be a solution for conscientious objectors? We see tensions between people increasing, because there are no easy solutions anymore. People who get angry because a major operation is canceled again. Entrepreneurs who are restricted. Young people who can't go out. However, we will have to keep doing this together, and longer than this winter, because Corona will remain for a while. That's why the CDA wants real steps to be taken to get hospitals to work together and focus on nursing and ic care for corona in a few places. Beds and equipment are sufficient, but staff is the bottleneck. By scaling up the ic-care can be organized more practically. We are also told that through messages from the field. Nurses will be paid extra and taken care of. In particular, reservists and recently retired people will be the first to be eligible to commit themselves to this. The Minister is investigating that, but the CDA is keen to speed it up. By actually making all hospitals co-owners, there could still be regional involvement. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We would like more clear communication on the basic measures, because we expect them to remain important for a long time. Clear communication about what, why and the effectiveness of the measures are of great importance. We wondered whether the French concept would help, with a doctor explaining the figures and disabling fake news before a press conference. Whether that is portrayed as how delayed care can currently be for people, such as heart and cancer patients who have to wait. I am thinking of the video of the employees of the Radboud hospital. That's what comes in people. At my request, Mr Jaap van Dissel has once again looked at the effect on the infections if everyone were to test and stay at home in case of complaints and comply with the basic measures. So no corona pass, no mouth caps. We saw this morning that the reproductive factor would even be reduced to 0.5 and so the virus would have died quickly. So these results are just as spectacular as in March. We have previously argued for mobile testing sites, because good accessibility also works threshold lowering, but we understand from the letter that there are only 155 test sites. This means that half of the municipalities do not even have their own location and large municipalities have far too few locations. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions. Recently I was allowed to sit on the digital panel of the congress of the physician assistants. The theme was violence in health care. We can see that there is increasing aggression towards healthcare professionals. That is unacceptable, we have said before. Does the Minister intend to take specific action to do something about this? In view of the new variant omikron............................................................................................................................................................................................ There's gonna be more and more medication. The Minister briefly mentions them in his letter, but does not indicate how effective they are, how much we have purchased, what their effects can be on hospitals and ic recordings, and how the effects are included in the models. Will the Minister make a commitment to send a letter on this matter? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you. There are two interruptions. I'm not sure who got up first. I call Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u36	I would like to ask Mrs van den Berg about the motion that I have just tabled to ensure that compliance with the basic rules is a guiding principle in all the reports on covid that we, as a government, are sending out. The CDA voted against it. Now I hear Mrs van den Berg's plea and I wonder why she did not just vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u37	We have long argued in favour of communicating precisely the importance of the basic rules. It is a pity that we have to take stricter measures every time, even lockdown measures, because the basic rules are not being sufficiently followed. But if I remember correctly, Mrs van der Plas suggested that this was about the only measure. We could not support that, because we thought that more had to be done at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u38	I think that's a weird reasoning. If you're going to file a motion, of course, it's never the only one. I'll file more motions. This doesn't mean that this is all I want for the Netherlands. At that time, we had a specific discussion on the basic measures. I have been calling in several debates since the summer: what happened to the basic measures? I think it is fine and very nice that the CDA now wants to communicate better about this and make a plea for it, but we could have done that a few weeks ago. I find it strange if the reasoning was: because that point was the only thing, we didn't do it. If I were to retable such a motion tonight, can I count on the CDA to sign it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u39	We're always willing to watch. I am very curious about the exact text of the motion, which is very important to us. We asked Mr Van Dissel this in March. Even when it became apparent that compliance with the basic measures led to spectacular results. In fact, that has become even worse now, in the sense of positive worse, because the basic measures have a huge effect. Once again, we like to look at that, but I do think that the precise wording of the text is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u40	First, a brief point of order. Yesterday I requested a debate on aggression and violence and the taking of weapons to hospitals. I was then referred to this debate, but I can see that it falls a little bit into the water. Mrs Van den Berg is suddenly asking a question about it. In any case, I shall request that debate again during the forthcoming work. I will then ask for a majority debate instead of a 30-member debate that has already supported the opposition as a whole. That was my point of order, Mr President. The second is a question to Mrs Van den Berg. As Mrs De Vries said, this is a very complicated and elusive virus. Because it usually spreads through the inhalation of each other's breath, it is extremely complicated to fight this. Indeed, Mrs van den Berg quite rightly calls every time for the basic measures to be better implemented. I also think that this is a loss for the Prime Minister in particular. Does she share that opinion? Two. In this context, the CDA doubted the introduction of 2G a few weeks ago. It saw 2G as an opportunity to enter so we wouldn't get a lockdown. The night lockdown is now a fact. The OMT also makes it very clear that CCP mobility is not a measure to prevent virus spread and combat an epidemic. My question to Mrs Van den Berg is: does she withdraw her support for 2G? How does she feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u41	To begin with Mrs Agema's last question: last time we called 2G the pink elephant in the room and indicated that this is a struggle for us as a group. We are now examining the legislative proposals and as a group we have extensive discussions on them. So we have not yet taken a position on this. On the first question on communication and whether the Prime Minister did not do so adequately. In my view, the Prime Minister has done so very clearly last time, particularly at the point where Mrs Agema and the CDA agree, namely the importance of ventilation. He has also explicitly called for attention to be paid to this. In that sense, I am optimistic that the cabinet will also continue to hold on to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u42	In the penultimate press conference there was indeed attention to ventilation, but not in the latter. My concern is that with the evening lockdown many movements will move back to home situations. You can also see in the behavioral reflection of RIVM that although ventilation is seen as very effective at home by 93% of the population, only 45% of people are thinking of opening a window. So hopefully I will be able to find you by my side if I continue to do so a little longer in the direction of the Prime Minister. I also hope that the CDA will take the following into account in the difficult considerations that they see ahead. Last week in Sappemeer all participants were vaccinated at the clover jacket day and they all had a corona ticket in their pockets, but still there are 27 infections and 1 dead to regret. The same goes for the outing of former roommates. They were all also vaccinated and all had a corona pass, but still half of them got infected. So I would like to give the CDA Group a hand in not going on with 2G, because that really does not offer any security and is therefore very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u43	We're gonna look at all the arguments. As a result of the previous debate, I sent a letter to the CDA members containing the struggle we are having. I can only say that I have received hundreds of reactions which differ 180 degrees from each other. So this isn't going to be a clear discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. History seems to be repeating itself. Once again, the cabinet was surprised by the rate of spread of the virus. Once again, measures have been delayed for too long, causing cancer patients and others to see their treatment cancelled. Once again, Minister Hugo de Jonge is the European fence shutter when it comes to vaccination, in this case boostering, of vulnerable people. Once again, the interests of the market go beyond the interests of society. New virus variants are emerging because pharmaceutical companies patent and keep production methods to themselves. We cannot give free self-tests because that would disrupt the market. Mouth caps mold away in warehouses because we can't hand them out for the sake of the market. Healthcare insurers are still sending less care to hospitals, while everything shows that more capacity is needed. There's stuff about which care can be taken over by private clinics. How can it be that the interests of the patient and the caregiver are not served on all these points, but the importance of the market? Wouldn't this moment, in a crisis, be the time to strengthen cooperation in care and break with market forces? Mr. Chairman. The SP wonders whether this cabinet still has the strategy and the goals in place. What are the measures to be taken? A stabilization of the number of recordings? Or should the pressure in the care really be lowered? Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister didn't come out at all. I wonder if he does have a plan in the meantime how the Netherlands is helped by that coronawinter. Can he explain more clearly, first of all, what is to be achieved with the current measures? Are they any good at explaining, for example? Can it be explained that you can go to the McDonald's with your friends during the day, but that you can't play soccer with those same friends at night? Shopping can and should, but rather all at the same time during the day rather than spread over several hours. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what is the logic behind these measures. Meanwhile, the pressure on care remains enormous. People who have been waiting months for a hernia surgery hear again that it takes even longer. People with a tumor in their heads don't get the care and the surgery they do need right now. This minister doesn't want to hear the words "code black" yet, but for more and more patients the days are already black. Ernst Kuipers talked about that this morning. He spoke of a large grey area, because not everyone is going to get the critical operation that is needed. That's very intense, especially when you realize that this could have been partially prevented. Mr. Chairman. It remains very painful that this cabinet has still not managed to increase its capacity in healthcare. Many operations could have continued by now, but the Rutte Cabinets decided to shut down entire hospitals and after ten years Rutte were closed down nineteen ICU departments in hospitals. My question to the cabinet is: why isn't everything being done to restore this? Increase wages in health care structurally. Give all healthcare providers a €1,000 health bonus in 2022. Pay the parking costs of people who work at the hospital. Give all the support needed to keep people working in care, psychic support wherever it is needed, physical support wherever it is needed, because this virus is far from gone. In the coming years too, therefore, we still need a lot of care and a lot of caregivers to take the hit. The same applies, of course, to the GGD. They are responsible for testing, the source and contact research, the vaccinations and also the boosters, but it runs them over the shoes. I would like to ask the cabinet: where is the plan now to continue the work of the GGD? Mr. Chairman. Those who have not yet been vaccinated or cured have a great chance of becoming infected and ill in the coming months. Everyone in our country is going to build up antibodies. The question is whether you do that with a vaccine or by catching the disease. That is also why the SP wants to focus even more on vaccination to prevent disease, intakes and deaths, not by threatening, but simply by informing people fairly and properly. I would like to ask the cabinet whether it is prepared to look together with associations and organisations to see how the vaccination rate could be further increased. Think, for example, of a pact with gym holders to see how this group, often even young people, can be convinced of vaccination. Think of the older unions, sports associations, who can talk to people. What else can the cabinet do to convince these groups? I am also thinking of the obstetricians, who have just passed by, who now see a lot of pregnant women who are getting seriously ill, who end up in hospital, who experience their child being born prematurely and who are going through a real hell. Let's tell those stories a lot more. Let's get these people in the picture as a warning to everyone to take that vaccine and avoid it. I very much hope that the cabinet will do much more in this area. That concludes me, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to all those care workers, the people on the ambulances, the people at the GGD, the boas, the policemen, the firefighters and everyone I unfortunately forget now, who are working day and night for our security and working together to get through this crisis. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the ministers' officials. I know that they find our criticism very difficult from time to time. There's a lot of tears going on. But I know that there is hard work, often around the clock, also because of the miserable planning of the House of Representatives. I would also like to thank them for their commitment. The criticism is never personal, although sometimes it is necessary. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. The contagion rates and recordings are higher than ever. Despite the bright spots, we must remain vigilant. The R is still above 1, and the holidays still have to come and omikron brings great uncertainty. There are goals to be set: not ruling on the basis of daily prices and uncertainty as we are today, but on the basis of goals that we had and still pursue, in which there must be a certain degree of logic and predictability. One: we want fewer sick and fewer deaths by covid. Two: we want to protect the vulnerable. Three: we want to guarantee care for those who need care. Four: we want to relieve care workers. And five: education must be open, because children suffer from closures. Mr. Chairman. If you set these goals, there is only one conclusion: taking decisive measures and far-reaching measures as proposed by the Labour Party in previous weeks. Moving on is not an option, even if it is only because we remain in uncertainty for months to come with all the consequences for public health and the economy. Mr. Chairman. The reality is that for many people in the Netherlands it is already code black. For the young woman waiting for surgery on a tumor in the pancreas. For the man with a leaking heart valve. For terminal patients, who can now no longer die worthy at home because there is simply no neighbourhood nurse available. To be honest, I think that's terrible. They are not fictional examples, because we have been given them by general practitioners, by the Patient Federation and by patients themselves. This is now taking place in the Netherlands. So a choice has already been made for them. For them, there is no room in hospitals or in ICUs for a moment, possibly causing serious health damage or even life-threatening situations. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet cannot run away from these consequences. This is also a result of the choices made by this cabinet. My question to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health is: do they feel responsible for this? How long do we consider this situation of delayed necessary care acceptable? What solutions are there? What solutions and hope can we offer these people? What's the prospect? It is precisely in this science that the cabinet blames it for the late start of boosters, and that initiatives by general practitioners and municipalities are not sufficiently heard and are not given sufficient space. It is also regrettable to the Cabinet that two years after the start of the crisis we have not yet been able to relieve workers in care and increase capacity. 'Cause if this is gonna take years, it's gonna have to be. It is also regrettable that we still have not managed to reach many 50-plussers for many reasons to convince them that vaccination is helping them, and that we have not been able to convince many pregnant people that vaccination helps, with all the consequences of that, to still-born babies. That is because the mistrust has grown and the confidence in vaccination has diminished because of this situation. I think it's up to the cabinet to charge itself. Mr. Chairman. The necessary crisis structure is raging. We've been here almost two years. Serious evaluations are still lacking. Scenarios for the future are still not here. The messengers in this crisis have a credibility problem. The lack of perspective and broken promises grows distrust. Therefore, new command structures, new insights and more attention from behavioral scientists are needed. Corona's gonna be with us a long time. That can't wait for a new cabinet. That can't wait for a long formation. This means that the cabinet must understand that it is now necessary. I would therefore like to know: when will the cabinet come forward with proposals for the long term? We need an effective cabinet. We need new and fresh insights. Let us make sure that the precautionary principle is the guiding principle. Not looking up the edges, but taking responsibility for all those people who need it: the children, the care and the patients who are waiting, and us as a society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mrs Kuik notes that the mistrust is rather high. Of course, this is already the case with our party. That's why I tabled a number of motions a while ago for getting the data at hospital level, about vaccinees and unvaccinated people. Now my question is as follows. It was then an open invitation to the Minister to come up with the dates so that we can verify them ourselves and perhaps increase confidence. But there was a vote against it, just like against all of our motions, including by Mrs Kuik. So my question to Mrs Kuik is: why did you vote against it? Wasn't making those data public a great opportunity to increase confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u50	The answer has been given to you more often: because you cannot do so at individual hospital level without damaging patients' privacy. If we can, we will. That's not the problem. But let us be clear: I think that false information, which is also provided by the Forum for Democracy, is more detrimental to people's trust at home. The fact that they deny that 70% of the people on the ic's are unvaccinated, that they give a lot of disinformation, that they are going to demonstrate quietly without mouth caps on and that they approve riots, I think is more damaging to society than the fact that you cannot see exactly at hospital level what the figures are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr Van Houwelingen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u52	And then I'm not complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u53	Yeah, one last question. It's a serious question. You say that we can't do that without violating privacy. Of course, we've had that discussion here. We have tabled three motions, as you know, in which that is no longer a problem. The hospitals have given part of that information themselves. That would mean that they are also in violation. You have also voted against these three motions, which do not violate privacy. Then why did you vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u54	Because they say it can't be done. Van Dissel said to you today in the technical briefing: if I can, I will deliver it. So as soon as I can, I will. My question is: do you take these figures seriously or will they come back with a sauce of your own interpretation? Because that's what I'm worried about. Everyone in this house and the RIVM and the hospitals and the care workers and the nurses are doing their best to bring the right information to us. They work around the clock for that. Then a number of parties here in this house seem to throw them back, they no longer take them seriously and flood them with their own truth. Yeah, then there's no point. So, in short, I will cooperate in information if I can, but I hope that it will be taken seriously and will not be flooded with mistrust anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u55	A point of order from Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You said in advance in the debate that we should keep the number of interruptions to a minimum. That was your proposal. I wasn't happy about that. I was against that because of the collapse of care at the moment. But you didn't say that I could only ask one of my colleagues a question. I had thought in advance: I would like to ask Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Kuik a question. I therefore propose that we should at least be able to ask two colleagues a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u57	I have agreed with you: two questions or comments, in total. I am willing, but then I will do so to everyone, to allow three questions or comments. It bothers me, because this is what we agreed on. I'll take a look. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u58	I find this really annoying, because I would have liked to have just asked Mr Hijink a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yeah, see, that's what you get. I think Mr Paternotte has a point. Then we're not gonna do that. I just made an appointment with everyone, so we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u60	Keeping it limited is clearly communicating something else that it is one question or one MP. I'll just let Mr. Paternotte ask those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u62	643. It's been 643 days since patient zero and for 643 days we've been dealing with corona policy that graces headlines at home and abroad. And that's not because we're doing so well in the Netherlands. That's because we're approaching code black, which is because the number of corona infections worldwide is one of the highest, and that's because the missionary cabinet reacts way too late over and over again. We have been in circles for 643 days, and we have also had this debate before and discussed all these issues before. Again, it's about starting vaccination too late, why vulnerable people don't get a booster sooner. Again, it is about why passengers are not required to be tested at Schiphol Airport. Once again, it is a question of whether or not the measures are enough. We're in a spiral down. I see that there is too little learning ability in the outgoing cabinet, that we do not have a long-term strategy. I say again that the decision-making process is broken. The central question I am asking myself in debate is: how is it that that basis is not in order? First of all, the Chamber can take a critical look at itself. Because in this political arena we can, no, even fight differences with each other. We do so through arguments, we do so through debate, and we do not do so by saying in advance that we support proposals without having seen them in substance. We do this by increasing these differences with each other and talking about them, based on insights from science and controlled by the media. That is now the basis of democracy. That is the basis of the debate to be held here. But after 643 days of corona and 37 plenary debates, I wonder if all the arguments are on the table. Are these conversations going to be open enough around here? Have we set the right frameworks so that politics and science do not become spaghetti? It is precisely in the interests of our institutions and precisely in the interests of our democracy. Mr. Chairman. It is fundamental that the OMT and the RIVM should be able to contradict the outgoing cabinet and that journalists should be able to monitor us all, but that is not how it works now. I do not think that these conditions are sufficiently in place right now. Because it is not the OMT that decides what it wants to give scientific advice on, but the ministry of VWS. Does this mean that the outgoing cabinet is given enough unsolicited advice? Although RIVM has an excellent reputation as a research institute, it is constantly asked to model political policy choices. Didn't those scrolls get mixed up too much? How does the outgoing cabinet feel about that? Journalists, too, cannot fully fulfil their duties during the press conferences, because how can they put critical questions to the outgoing cabinet if they do not have all the documents at that time? It is fundamental that institutions and politics should not become too intertwined. I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. GroenLinks wants to do whatever it takes to bring down that reproduction number, but then we need to know what works. What is the effect of closing shops before? And what could be the effect of shutting down the catering industry or a week longer school vacation? And what's the effect that after 5:00 p.m. there can be no more sports? Is that based on scientific knowledge or is that a political compromise? For example, in the last 643 days we have known eight different regimes for outdoor sports. We did not do team sports, outdoor sports at 1.5 meters with the whole team, but did not use changing rooms, sports in groups of four at 1.5 meters distance, sports in groups with a separation between 26-minners and 26-plussers, with 26-plussers at 1.5 meters distance. We have also had trainings, but no matches. After that, corona tickets were requested. Now games may be played, but should not be trained. This sounds almost absurd, but there is a serious political question underneath. I would like to know which of these eight regimes works best to reduce the number of infections. What is effective now and on what basis is it measured? 'Cause I can't get that out of the pieces. I would like to have a very clear answer to that, because we have to assess here what does and what does not work. Mr. Chairman. After 643 days, we should know that too. Why is there no evaluation of the old measures? Why does the Court not have access to all the underlying calculations of all the measures, so that it is up to the Court to make that political assessment? We cannot now check what works and what does not. You also know GroenLinks as a constructive party, of course. For our party, it is important to prevent a quacklock down, and that is why we are thinking of a number of measures that are scientifically justified. Make free self-tests available to all households, as the behavioral unit of the RIVM also advises. A prick bonus for all unvaccinated to increase the vaccination rate. Bringing forward the booster campaign again for people with vulnerable health under 60 years of age. Calling on the whole country to be tested in two consecutive weekends, as has been shown to be effective on several occasions. And making available a return bonus for the 25,000 BIG-registered nurses who have left care. The latter may not be scientifically proven, but it is very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'd all hoped so fervently that we'd never end up in a lockdown again. It is difficult to stay home again and not be able to go to the movies, theatres or pubs in the evening and not be able to play sports; to celebrate Saint Nicholas in smaller company. Above all, it is difficult for all those entrepreneurs who have to close their cases early. But I'm afraid it's necessary. We owe it to care. We owe it to all those patients who have to wait for their surgery. Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for the cabinet about this. How could it have come to this? How is it possible that the Netherlands is back in that lockdown? And, of course, how do we get out? Where does the cabinet get the confidence that these measures are going to be enough to prevent code black in hospitals and to give the virus a hard blow? Mr. Chairman. There were plenty of opportunities to do better this winter. It would have been learned from last year: don't relax too quickly. The OMT and many others, including my own group, said more than two months ago: keep up some of these measures; opening up a society is a risk. At the time, the cabinet took that risk, knowingly and knowingly. Communication would also be improved. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Chamber has been asking to follow the advice of behavioral scientists. My group therefore finds it appalling that the boss of the Corona Behaviour Unit of the RIVM has never been invited to the Catshuis. How is that possible, I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The basic infrastructure should also be in order, and yet it is still virtually impossible to make a test report quickly, the source and contact research has been scaled down again, and the money for the GGD is still not structural. How is this possible? Even Bulgaria is currently stinging faster with these boosters than the Netherlands. When will the boosters for high-risk younger groups start in the Netherlands? Many other parties have already asked for this today. Can the Minister also undertake that several parties have requested that the order of the first vaccination campaign be maintained? Mr. Chairman. We would be prepared for a new corona variant, we were promised. Greetings that, as a precaution, a flight ban was immediately imposed, but why was it such a big mess at Schiphol Airport? We want the promise that next time there will be a playbook. I'm curious to hear the response. Aviation still enjoys an exceptional position in this country. Thursday it turned out that the Netherlands imported more than 10,000 infections by plane. Why didn't I hear the cabinet at the press conference about this? Travelling by train is very strongly advised, but a flight to the sun is still fine. Why are the shops behind customs at Schiphol Airport still open until late? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to join the questions raised by D66 and the SP on the fair distribution of vaccines and patents around the world. These measures may contribute to reducing new virus variants. Mr. Chairman. Something would also happen about this new governance culture, but the VWS Minister wants to send three far-reaching laws on the corona pass through both Chambers. On Twitter, he acts like the 2G is already through. Professor Wim Voermans warns that the cabinet falls into a permanent crisis administration, with much too loose a hand with the Constitution. How does the cabinet and the coalition intend to regain confidence if they continually delay the Chamber? Only in January 2022 will the cabinet present a long-term strategy. That's five months after the advice of the WRR and the Academy. In that report, the winter scenario we're in was just predicted. The virus is therefore not erratic; this cabinet is erratic. Without a strategy, the Netherlands is constantly being robbed. So how is the cabinet going to implement my adopted motion on a long-term strategy? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister obviously wants a cabinet with new momentum, and my group does have some ideas on how to do that. Start by tackling the Dutch part in causing these pandemics. Stop locating animals in pot-tight stables. Stop deforestation for animal feed. And go seriously against those other crises, the climate and the natural crisis. I am curious; perhaps the Prime Minister will be able to think about it during that almost coming Christmas celebrations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Jewish community is celebrating the Chanekafeest these days. It is precisely in these gloomy times that this is a feast full of hope, of light, of joy and of a deep message: darkness is not conquered by darkness, but by light. I hope this party will be celebrated much more extensively next year, even in this house, in good tradition. I think the deep meaning has a lot to say to us right now, in these exciting times. The Prime Minister and the Minister were honest about it last Friday: we had all hoped that corona would have much less impact on our lives now, mostly for all those sick people in the Netherlands and for care, for the hospitals and the ic's, but also for community care. We hear how difficult it is that not all the care that people actually need can now be given, and how difficult it is for those care workers. That actually makes it code gray. The situation is serious. I think we all actually know someone in our neighborhood who should be in surgery, but wait. We know what helps: the basic measures, the 1.5 meters and also the vaccinations. They're clearly contributing. It is precisely now that care is so tight that we must make every effort to get through this winter together and stick to the basic measures. We all have a great responsibility, for protecting the vulnerable, for maintaining care and for allowing schools to continue. I see and I notice, also in my mailbox, the hardening in society. But I would like to ask here: please, will we just take good care of each other, even if we disagree? Come on, we can go higher than the layer that occasionally overwhelms all our mailboxes. We're one society. Let us stand by and sometimes suspend our judgment, because we also allow the other to get through this well. And whatever you think about this, stick to those basic measures. Mr. Chairman. My group is concerned about whether this temporary evening lockdown is sufficient. We see the necessity and we know at the same time that it makes such a difference if we stick to these basic measures more collectively. A lot of people do that, too. A lot of people want it, but it doesn't quite work. What exactly is that in? Does the Minister see any opportunities to improve that? Does he constantly have the smartest experts at work, just to see what the new commitment can be for this winter? Also this morning, the figures showed who is most likely to have a serious disease. The Minister has committed himself to working hard on our proposal for testing, informing and vaccinating in the 30 districts with high levels of infection and a low vaccination rate. But it's gotten a little quiet. How's it going? The Christian Union insists on looking at the long term and working with scenarios, also because there are now new variants and that is precisely why we do have concerns. My fellow Members have said a great deal about the booster campaign. I agree with the question about the order for the most vulnerable people, who have been involved in the first round of vaccinations before. I also agree with the concerns about falling effectiveness. Mr. Chairman. I've asked the minister earlier about the classic protein vaccines. There's a group of people waiting for that. They have different reasons for this, but they do want to be vaccinated. It seems that one of those vaccines, Sanofi, is already available at the end of the year. Does the Minister see an opportunity to make one of these vaccines available soon, because this also helps to attract a group that really wants to? Mr. Chairman. You know that as a Christian Union we have talked about the 1G alternative next to 2G: testing everyone, just where the government wants to apply 2G. We believe that this is a proportionate, more appropriate and effective proposal. The Minister said that he was going to make a first impact, but, frankly, it seems with that effect that it is rather pricey and difficult to implement. I would have expected a little more solution-orientedness from this minister, because that is how I know him, for example, by naming which settings 1G might be appropriate, and also by looking more at the long term, at what the behavioral effects of this proposal would be. What does the Minister think of the observation of the behavioral unit that people are much more likely to test for complaints if they have a self-test at home? That behavioral effect can also make a huge contribution. How does the Minister view other forms of testing? At the moment, for example, there is a really high standard, the diagnostic standard, for reliability. But now other methods are also scoring higher and higher; think about monitoring. We see that the production lines and universities are ready to use precisely these methods. I would therefore ask him to consider these methods, because then the test capacity can be increased. Denmark is doing the same. Mr President, I will conclude. Much has already been said about care. I really agree with all those people who have said: be compassionate with, above all, the care workers. But now that there is more frequent recourse to the carers, I would like to ask the Minister what possibilities he sees of extending the family leave for this winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union says we have to take good care of each other. Now we are a little concerned about this, because we see that a vaccination obligation has arisen in Austria and Germany. Ms Ursula von der Leyen, the President of the European Commission, also indicated that she was in favour of this. Minister De Jonge recently said he knows where the unvaccinated live. I have heard a fervent plea from Mrs Bikker to introduce 1G instead of 2G, because 2G would be discriminatory. I was very pleased with that, but can I assume that the Christian Union will never and never agree to compulsory vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u69	First of all, I want to say that I think vaccination helps. That's why I chose a vaccine myself. But I stand for the freedom of everyone to make that assessment. That is why I have tabled the 1G proposal. I think it's important that people make that choice in freedom. I also see the traditionally very high vaccination rate in the Dutch National vaccination programme. Why is that? Not by force. It comes from trust, by giving information and showing how vaccination actually contributes to health. That's how we've always worked in the Netherlands. That's how we're one society, where we stick together. That is the way in which the Christian Union wants to set this up, and that is exactly what I am committed to doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's music in my ears, of course. Of course, we have to do it together and we have to motivate people to do the right thing. But that freedom is essential, isn't it? I've also taken all kinds of vaccinations called diphtheria, tetanus, polio, rabies and I know what I've been injected with, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u71	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's kind of special.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u73	Spicy shit!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u74	Yes, but the point is that we are now being messed up in a situation that almost seems to be a majority in favour of which we are going towards compulsory vaccination. The Christian Union will be at the centre of this, so I would ask you once again whether you can say here that you will never and never agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'll tell you what the Christian Union stands for. I object to words like "messed." We're in a parliament here. My position is very clear. I think that, precisely in view of the National vaccination programme in which we give freedom and responsibility, it goes very well in the Netherlands when you look at all the other vaccines, which really contribute to the low burden of disease. We are in a time of crisis, in the corona time, in which I absolutely ask people: please, behave responsibly. But that is also what I am asking here in Parliament. It's not the case. The government didn't propose it. This would give rise to the suggestion that the government is proposing this. This will complicate the debate, and also complicate it, in a way that is not necessary. On the contrary, I call on you to look at the measures that we can take, even if they hurt, to get through this crisis together, because it is code grey. I ask Mr Van Haga to do the same. I don't think we do that by saying things like the cabinet proposed them. That's not true. We will do it by being ready and ready at the moments when the debate is to take place, even next week, if there are a number of legislative proposals. Because then we take our role as representatives of the people in a clear way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We swim slowly but surely further and further into a trap. This will be our second coronawinter. All the indicators I repeat: all the indicators are red compared to a year ago. Care's about to collapse. There's even talk of a healthcare infarction. The number of delayed operations has increased. Young people have become massively depressed because of the hopeless situation. And, worst of all, society has become extremely polarized, because the cabinet has chosen to appoint the unvaccinated as scapegoat for one's own failure. In schools, in the workplace and even within families, deep dividing lines have been drawn. And why? To relieve the burden of care? But care is being burdened more heavily than last year, Kuipers said it himself today. To save lives? But the excess mortality rate is now, with a large proportion of our population vaccinated, greater than a year ago. How is this possible? After two shots, we'd be free again and again, wouldn't we? That was the deal, wasn't it? And then the Young One. A recent Japanese study shows that twenty-seven times I repeat: seven times the risk of death as high as by covid. However, we continue to vaccinate young people and even children, who are not or hardly at risk because of the virus, with vaccines whose long-term side effects are completely unknown. Side effects for which there is virtually no attention. This month the Advertising Code Commission even considered that the dances-with-Janssen campaign this summer was one-sided, careless and therefore unacceptable advertising. The Janssen vaccine is not recommended in countries like Norway. It had and has known side effects such as Guillain-Barré, venous thromboembolism and thrombosis. It was therefore agreed that young people should fill in an informed consent form for vaccination with this vaccine. A question to the Minister: did that happen? Have young people who have been approached in the framework of the dance-with-Janssen campaign signed such an informed consent form? And is it true that the booster for the Janssen vaccine becomes a mRNA vaccine? Has this vaccine-booster combination been subject to medical examination? And should there be unexpected health damage to young people due to Janssen vaccines, who is responsible for this? At least not the manufacturer, we know. Is it the EEA that allowed the vaccines conditionally under the guise of an emergency? Or the cabinet that implemented the policy? Or this House of Representatives that approved it? Or the doctor who administered the vaccine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u79	The group leader of the Forum for Democracy in the House of Representatives, Mr Baudet, said that vaccination is an up-to-date way to ultimately control everyone as a government with a microchip...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u80	Excuse me, chairman, can he talk whenever he wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr Paternotte has not yet had any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u82	I'm really impressed by how much I impress people while I'm sitting in my chair. Anyway... The group chairman of Mr Van Houwelingen, Mr Baudet, said that vaccination is an opacity to control people from the government with a microchip. The Group Chairman of the Forum for Democracy in the First Chamber said yesterday: I have been vaccinated, because I think that is sensible and that you should seek advice from a medical practitioner and not from a political leader. I think that's very sensible words. Does Mr Van Houwelingen agree that you should ask a doctor for vaccination advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u83	To begin with, we see that the corona measures are being extended. We had not thought it possible a year ago to talk about a corona passport. Maybe you agree with me. Mrs von der Leyen spoke about the possibility of a vaccination obligation in the European Union. There's another lockdown coming up. It goes on and on. Unvaccinated people are being expressed in society. That's the point. I don't know why either, but we seem to see it sooner than others. There is always talk of conspiracy theories, but we always make the joke: the time between a conspiracy theory and a conspiracy fact is getting shorter and shorter. It was like six months, but it gets shorter and shorter. You can do bathinating about injected chips, but in Sweden they have now proposed that. You'd better check it out. That's where it's proposed to put a corona pass like that in your body. Things like this are being talked about and gradually it is happening more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u84	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u85	I'm not talking about Sweden or anything else. I asked for something very simple. The group chairman of the Forum for Democracy in the First Chamber says: yes, I think vaccination is sensible; I did it; listen to a physician and not Thierry Baudet. I asked Mr Van Houwelingen if he agrees. And then he starts a whole story, all rattling, but just answer me. Do you agree with Mr Frentrop that it is wise to listen to a doctor, as I think it is sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u86	Everyone has to decide for themselves whether or not to be vaccinated. Everyone's free to do that. I'm not making any statements about it myself. You need to get more information from the person you trust. It's a good thing you're asking me this question, 'cause I'm gonna have a good time explaining it. It is very important; I hope you realise that. Confidence in experts and in medical science is under pressure because we do not have public debates. Ewald Angelen said it in De Balie yesterday. It's an incredibly big problem. I'm all being visited by doctors who are afraid to speak out. You can't criticize the guidelines, because then the Minister will send the inspection to you. Here in the Chamber, I don't get data requested. It goes on and on. We don't have a public debate anymore. Science is critical. You have to relate to criticism and we have eliminated it in this country. That's really bad, from left to right. Ewald Angels says so, too. And that's why it's very difficult to go to experts. Do you have to trust experts? In general, yes, but people like you have made it very difficult. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u88	I want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u89	No, this is not going to be a point of order. This is the debate. Two is two, we've just established each other. Mr. Van Houwelingen continues his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u90	Meanwhile, we live in a country where citizens are more afraid of the State and sometimes also of each other than of the corona virus, a virus of which 98% to 99% of people do not get seriously ill. It was said again this morning in the briefing. Everyone in the Netherlands, vaccinated or unvaccinated, should start to wonder: what is the limit for me? When your kids have to dry out in the cold after swimming lessons? When your friend can't come to a restaurant anymore? When your grandmother or grandpa, who only occasionally sees a nurse with a mouth cap, loses the will to live through and slowly dies? When your colleague will be removed from the workplace because he can't display a QR code? When you lose your green check mark if you don't get a booster shot in time, as it is already the law in France? Or is your breaking point perhaps reached when a vaccination obligation is introduced in our country, as in Austria, and you have to choose between a fine of €9,600, four weeks in prison or a booster? And yes, a few hours ago, the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, said that we should talk about a vaccination obligation in the European Union. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u91	An interruption by Mrs Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u92	I think I got two more, too. I'd like to pick up where Mr. Paternotte left off. Mr. Van Houwelingen says that we no longer have a public debate here. We've had a lot of corona debates here. What does Mr. Van Houwelingen see as a debate? He's been able to say anything he wants here every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u93	I also think this is an excellent question. I'm really glad you asked me this. I understand you're in your position wondering what he's talking about; you can say what you want. That's right, I can say whatever I want here. One word may no longer be allowed, but I can say whatever I want. That is the case here. But I've got a lot of doctors coming to see me who don't dare criticize policy. Ewald Angelen said it yesterday at De Balie. And why wouldn't they dare? Because you get the inspection after you if you're critical, because then you're a danger to public health, then you're spreading disinformation. It's about the public debate. I have never seen this before, even in the case of immigration or other sensitive issues. So I am not talking so much about the Chamber, but about society wide. We have a great deal of trouble with that. For example, we can raise experts, but they do not dare to say what they want to say, because they are afraid of losing their jobs and so on. That's the case. That is the reality we are in and not you. That's probably why you can't understand that, but it's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u94	Maybe I misplaced Mr. Angel. I don't think that's a scientist or a doctor. I'm not sure I can conclude that that's true. I would like to know from Mr Van Houwelingen whether he agrees that, when we talk about facts, there can be no different facts and facts must be clearly established in a certain scientific way that science at least agrees on globally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u95	Of course, I fully agree with that, but I shall return to my previous point: that requires debate. You're gonna need criticism for that. Facts can always be interpreted in different ways. You don't have one fact. You have to put that in context. That's what scientists do. That's how scientific debate works. That's largely eliminated. That's the big problem we're dealing with right now. For example, you need data. When I request data, for example hospital data, you vote against it. Or if, for example, I want to organise a hearing here. That is also a good example. I've tried that twice, with critical virologists, doctors and experts, so people you say are experts. That's gonna be rejected. I was literally told, for example, by the Hijink, when I proposed a hearing: no, we do not want to talk to non-OMT virologists. Then the debate was smothered in this Chamber, Mrs. Paulusma, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u96	Thank you. There is no prohibition of concepts, by the way. I also explained last time that it is about the intention behind the use of concepts. So let us not pretend to have a list of forbidden terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u97	It was kindly meant for me. It was half a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u98	I call Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u99	I'm rounding up. The last paragraph. Again, the central point I want to make is: where is the border for you? This is a question that each of us must ask ourselves in the coming harsh winter. This division does not stop until we, as Dutch, say: enough is enough. Freedom is not a privilege that you can be given or taken away, but a fundamental unshakable right of every individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the news reached me that chemo treatments can no longer be given in time, I feel permanently powerless in this debate. We're going to go black and maybe we've already hit it. The ten faces of the delayed care in Trouw this weekend therefore gave me an extra sad feeling. Toine, waiting for a heart valve. Marleen, 29 years old, waiting for surgery to remove the tumor in her head. 48-year-old Mirella from Weert, waiting for her uterus to be removed. Euronews reported yesterday that around 1 million Europeans would be walking around with cancer without having been diagnosed by the overload of national healthcare systems. Mr. Chairman. My husband also lived with cancer for years and had the feeling of a time bomb in his body, when he never had to wait for care. That's why this discussion hits me so hard, sometimes too hard, like last weekend. I would therefore like to apologize again openly for the tweet that was far too harsh and inappropriate. This is why. That's not good talk. However, it is an explanation that I believe I am obliged to give him here to the Chamber. I am concerned about all these people who are in this pain and insecurity, just as I am concerned about our care staff, the hospital directors and general practitioners who fear that code black will not guarantee the safety of patients and personnel if the army cannot secure them. I am concerned about the teachers who are trying their best to keep schools open without additional policies to protect themselves well, about the entrepreneur who is once again afraid of bankruptcy, about the woman behind the front door who is afraid of her husband, about the child who is afraid of even more educational disadvantage and about the older one who will be lonelier because he is afraid of contact with his grandchildren and children. I feel powerless because I often get the feeling that as a small opposition party in this debate it is often like talking in the air. However, I would like to ask you again. Mr. Chairman. We know that if the cabinet doesn't introduce a hard lockdown, the deferred care on the buy increases. The same is true of the virologist Bert Niesters of the UMCG. Moreover, an Executive Director of the WHO, Mike Ryan, said at the beginning of the pandemic: Be fast. The virus will always get you if you don't move quickly and be prepared. So act boldly and be vigilant. Prevention is better than cure. And then use a lockdown to get the boosters off the ground. Since yesterday, the Netherlands has officially been the country with the least set booster shots per 100 inhabitants of the EU as a whole. Volt is also concerned about the people with extra vulnerable health. They will receive a shot soon enough, I ask the Minister. Use this time to make policies for schools so that they can remain open in a safe way, develop scenarios for the future, improve source and contact research, scale up testing capacity and provide free self-tests to households, design a strategy that explicitly focuses on infections. And use this time of lockdown mainly to put the foundation in order, restore society's trust in corona policy and come up with a plan for deferred care, for the mental burden of society and for the medium and long term. That plan is missing now. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like a reflection from the Minister on the following points. Communicate clearly and more frequently on what measures are being used in what scenario, as with the old road map. Communicate clearly on the use of medical nose masks and FFP2 masks. What about, for example, the stock of these masks? Why aren't they mandatory in care? Can these be distributed? Communicate clearly about facts and fables surrounding the virus and vaccine and counter disinformation. What is being done specifically to prevent disinformation on social media? Finally. Communicate how important it is that we attack this crisis globally. What is the Dutch attitude towards the proposal for an international pandemic treaty? Use that time to learn internationally about the omikron variant. What does the omikron variant mean for our vaccines? Why do we only use this variant to be more careful when travelling? Shouldn't we have checked for infections from the very beginning, as countries like Canada have done, and who gets on a plane? We only read vague answers to questions about how we stand in the patent discussion. I would like to ask you once again: is the Office for the Release of Patents, or does the Cabinet want to make more use of the unexploited vaccine capacity of 1 billion vaccines estimated by the WHO, after all, as soon as possible? Because we're not safe until the world is safe. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. And thank you for what you just did. I think it's brave that you illustrated that in the light of your personal life. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr. Chairman. It is really indescribable that after one and a half years of crisis we are facing a code again. Once again, measures are being taken that completely miss their goal. What happens in response to the evening lockdown will surprise no one. People aren't gonna dine in the hospitality business anymore, they're gonna go out to lunch. Everyone goes shopping quickly at the end of the afternoon, leading to a greater concentration of customers at one time. Everything closed after 5:00? Then we'll just have a nice old-fashioned visit. I wouldn't expect a big drop in the number of infections. However, I expect a further decrease in confidence in the Corona policy, because there is no way to tie it up. Think of the closing time of 17.00 hours for sports locations, also for outdoor sports. That's inimitable. Mr Van Dissel had to admit that this measure was chosen for reasons of so-called clarity and not because there is a drastic effect to it. The chairman of the political group of JA21 in the Upper Chamber has already tabled a motion on this matter. I urge the Minister to take a serious look at this. Mr. Chairman. If anything were to become clear to me at this morning's technical briefing, that would be the importance of complying with the basic measures. For months, the cabinet has failed to put all its emphasis on this. Instead, all cards are put on a stack of rules and regulations. If it is up to my group, the cabinet sends a different but clear message: everyone has to stick to the basic measures, no matter how often someone has been restored, vaccinated or tested. Let us work with conviction on crystal clear communication about the importance of the basic measures, so as to bring the R under 1 as soon as possible. Then the booster campaign. I can't tell you how long this weather is gonna last. Why can 18-year-olds, who are hardly at risk of hospitalization, get a first shot without an appointment, while 70-year-olds, who are at much greater risk, cannot get the same shot as a booster? My question to the Minister: is it possible to temporarily suspend the campaign for first shots for young people and to give all these pricks, at least those of Pfizer, to the elderly and people at risk? This can then simply be done by pricking without an appointment, so that no additional staff needs to be released. Another question in terms of effectiveness. Is it possible, as in France, to immediately offer the booster in the other arm to anyone who comes for a flu shot? And then I would like to support the forgotten groups in the risk-driven policy. Can the Minister promise that not only older people and care workers will be given accelerated access, but also other risk groups already identified, such as pregnant people? This with the risk of it happening like I'm trying to get myself a booster, but I'm just gonna ask. Mr President, last but not least. The care capacity remains below par. The Minister responded to JA21's request for separate care for corona patients. The sector wouldn't want that. During the technical briefing, Mr Kuipers also commented on how difficult everything was. My group has a strong impression that the sector needs clustering of corona care, both at hospital and ic level. Clustering in one or a few specific covid centres makes more effective care possible. Moreover, it ensures that other hospitals can focus on all other care. For example, there is no need to cancel chemotherapy or cardiac surgery. My question to the Minister: are you prepared to go back into consultation with LNAZ and other agencies to see if setting up centres specifically dedicated to care for covid patients is an option? Mr. Chairman. These are the alternatives that my group sees for itself: to focus on less dissemination through better compliance with the basic measures, better protection through rapid and effective use of boosters and more effective treatment of covid via clustering, so as to ensure care for non-covid patients. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on our proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u105	Madam President. "The need of times, which makes itself felt so much in our country, is particularly pressing for humility and the call for God's help. The government is fully convinced of this." End of quote. You understand, it's not a passage from the last press conference. I see the Prime Minister as a historian thinking: when would that be? It was in November 1918 that the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck cabinet sought to talk to the churches about the social unrest of that time, about the Spanish flu, which demanded many victims. Together it was decided to call out a prayer stand, a prayer day. Even now, there is a lot of unrest. Even now, there's an infectious disease around that we can't just get under control. Even now, according to the deep conviction of the SGP, there is every reason for humility and prayer. It is a good thing that Minister Grapperhaus of Honor Service is still talking to churches about the necessary practical measures and looking forward to each other. That's very good. My appeal to the cabinet is: also speak to churches on this subject: humiliation and the invocation of God's will. Madam President, on the measures we are dealing with today. It has already been said by many: the situation is serious for care, where people are slowly but surely getting burned up. In society, the fuse is getting shorter. The fair story is that the end of the crisis is not yet in sight. The measures we are taking must therefore be effective and sustained for a long time. Connect as much as possible and split as little as possible. Indeed, we must learn to live together with the corona virus. This calls first of all on everyone's responsibility. It has rightly been mentioned and I would also like to emphasise the importance of keeping to the basic measures and taking them seriously. As a political response, it is understandable that strict uniform national regulations should always be introduced. But it is precisely now that the period extends, that measures are being considered, and now that the number of infections is still so high, that my question is precisely to what extent, in the context of this long-term vision, municipalities, civil society organisations, schools are being challenged to come up with measures in their own way, which achieve the same level of protection that is desired. That's what I like to hear from the cabinet. Not only the hospital care, which we talk about very much, is under high pressure. The health services, general practitioners, home care and other health care institutions are also having a hard time. My question is whether the possibilities of temporarily attracting additional staff are really being exploited sufficiently. Could it not help to provide additional support to healthcare providers to overcome the organisational bumps that this entails? You can sometimes hear that you do not have the staff to see what these extra people can do, because you have the hands full with your own work. There are still opportunities for the longer term. Are they being used? The nursing homes. In 40% of care centres, corona has recently been established. The number of deaths in nursing homes is again as high as in November last year. What is being done to improve the protection of vulnerable elderly people in the short term? Think, for example, of making self-tests available free of charge and offering high-quality mouth caps for visits to care institutions and elderly people living at home. The SGP supports the decision to keep schools open. At the same time, education has a high number of infections. How does the cabinet consider the suggestion to advance or extend the Christmas holidays? Good ventilation in schools is crucial to prevent contamination. Why is this not being funded and speeded up? The SGP calls for effective minimum requirements for spaces for educational institutions in order to be able to deploy rapidly already available budget. The evening measures have stopped many activities for young people, such as sports training, youth clubs and scouting. Young people have been hit relatively hard by the corona restrictions for a long time. Can youth activities be allowed in the evening outdoors in any case and can a solution be found for driving lessons and driving examinations? Finally. The Minister is working on a plan to deploy new medicines to corona patients as soon as possible. It is a good thing that a motion has been tabled by my colleague Mr Stoffer in September. The two and a half months have passed since the motion. Why does the government not start already with the national procurement of treatments that are partly still waiting for EEA approval, so that they are at least proactively engaged in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Our country stands for a fundamental choice. Choice one. Every time the number of infections and hospitalizations increases, we cramp. Then we hear the cabinet's now well-known narrative: the care can no longer cope, code black threatens, there is now an even more contagious variant, it is the fault of the unvaccinated. Eventually freedom-limiting measures, such as curfew, lockdowns and the coronapas, will follow. Mr. Chairman. The second choice also includes that people are offered vaccinations voluntarily and without compulsion or urge. Think of 60-plussers and people who can be determined to some extent that they can end up on an ic if the corona season erupts again. In addition to age, obesity is an important indicator. But what do we see? The Netherlands once again dangles at the bottom of the list with the booster campaign. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet lacks a long-term vision. There is talk of yo-yo policy. Take the education. Where are the structural solutions, such as smaller classes, working in cohorts and structural deployment on good ventilation? Why is Minister Slob only now talking to schools to see what can be done? Why don't there be extensive instructions, like the US CDC has them? Mrs Ploumen and I tabled a motion on this in February 2021. It was then dissuaded by the cabinet and finally, you already guessed it, rejected by the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Take the catering industry, too. When a pinball is thrown in a pinball cabinet that has been thrown from one side to the other for two years: obligatory closing, then opening again, then closing again, then opening again, and now partly closed again. Every time there's light at the end of the tunnel, they're in the dark again. Over and over again they are the victims of the idiotic yo-yo policy. The effect of the early closing time measure is that there is more clustering in the catering industry. That is why we say: give the hospitality industry the opportunity to keep things open for longer. In the hospitality industry there is already huge investment in ventilation, placing people and that detestable coronapas. You know how DENK feels about that. That's what we're gonna talk about extensively over the next few weeks. I would now like to turn to an important point for us in this debate. That's the exercise. Here, too, the cabinet stands for a fundamental choice. Will sport continue to be seen as part of the problem, or will sport be seen as part of the solution in this pandemic? Does the Cabinet realize that most people work from 9:00 to 5:00? There's no more gym for an hour. When people go to the gym, it's hugely crowded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u108	I'm gonna go back to the point for the sport. Sorry about that. Mr. Kuzu said we're going to be discussing a number of legislative proposals in the next few weeks. At the same time, it is Mr Kuzu who is distributing videos on behalf of his party, including me, as if I had already agreed to a number of legislative proposals being dealt with next week. That's really insufferable. I'd say don't fall for it. I actually thought DENK had abandoned these practices and was engaged in an orderly debate on the content. I found it extremely frustrating to see how Mr Kuzu pollutes the debate in this way. I am very pleased that he has discovered that these legislative proposals will be discussed next week. I would ask him to put that right at the place where so many of Mr Kuzu's followers treat me as if I have already agreed to a bill that has not yet been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u109	In any case, let me say very loudly and clearly that Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union has not yet approved the 2G bill. I hope she doesn't agree to that either. I didn't say on Twitter that the Christian Union agreed. You can read all that. I have said that the Christian Union has agreed to the treatment of this. That is indeed quite different from what the Christian Union has agreed to. I also hope that you will stand firm, that you will listen to your constituents and listen to the motions that were tabled during the congress. We're gonna see it all over the next few weeks, Mrs. Bikker. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to the gym. I wonder if the cabinet actually wants sports to be promoted. A year and a half ago a study appeared that showed that the corona virus thrives better with more fatty tissue. It is therefore no coincidence that after age overweight is an important indicator of a more serious disease progression. It has long and wide been clear that stress and poor sleep quality are detrimental to the immune system and therefore make you more susceptible to corona, while sports can reduce stress and promote sleep. Sports schools are therefore a major part of the solution and not of the problem. I sincerely wonder why the cabinet thinks that limiting sports opportunities will contribute to the health of Dutch people. How is it possible that gyms are on the list of non-essential services, while mortgage advisors are considered essential? How is it possible that in the Netherlands there is more time to get a joint from a coffee shop than time to work on your health at the gym? I find that really incomprehensible. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Even more strange than the measures for indoor sports are the restrictions for outdoor sports. How is it possible that outdoor training in amateur sports is only possible until 5:00 p.m., while it has long and wide been clear that infection hardly or never occurs in the outdoors? DENK therefore proposes to allow outdoor sports with immediate effect until at least 20.00 hours. Then the changing rooms stay closed and the people shower at home, as long as the people can keep exercising. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I began my speech by saying that the Netherlands is faced with a fundamental choice. The choice is ultimately ours, here in the Lower House. However, one thing is already certain, and that is what almost all scientists say: corona is no longer going away. That is the reality. The question is: what choice do we make? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u111	Maybe I can put that question to DENK, too. What choice does DENK make? I would really like Mr Kuzu to apologize for that type of video. You don't want to know what that type of movies is, and that's not just your party, but that's just as much the Group of Haga or Forum for Democracy means for your mailbox or your mailbox and what threats and swears you get to you. It would really be awesome to say: we don't do this kind of thing anymore, we start the debate on content and with this kind of nonsense we just stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u112	Let's go back. I really think that there are some falsehoods being said. You know me, too. When we last had a corona debate, I said, at the time when there were threats towards a colleague, that I would refrain from doing so. That goes for everyone in the Chamber, regardless of the party, whether it is left or right, I don't care at all. But Mrs De Vries of the VVD should not be pretending that we have posted a video about this procedural meeting. We didn't make a movie about that. You can read the tweet back. I did not say that the Christian Union agreed to the bill. I said that the Christian Union agreed to the treatment. In all seriousness, we also saw it yesterday in the First Chamber. What parties in the First Chamber were in favour of the bill on the basis of which the corona pass can be requested for non-essential services? Right, Mr. President, that was the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u113	A point of order, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u114	To my great shock I am suddenly also mentioned, at least my party, BVNL, or the Van Haga Group, as Mrs De Vries calls it. We don't distribute movies that evoke anything. It is absolutely not our intention to be inflammatory. I find this kind of thing very inflammatory. But I find it disgusting that Mrs De Vries does so in an interruption to Mr Kuzu and then involves me. I think she should distance herself from that and actually apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u115	You made your point of order. I think you're at the end of your contribution. We'll have dinner suspension later. I hope you can find each other and talk things out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u117	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB for her contribution. I hope that doesn't surprise her, because I see her looking a little surprised. Oh, I do surprise her, because it's Mrs. Den Haan who was ready. I now understand the surprise of Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Den Haan. I call Mrs Den Haan, from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can see how everyone's starting to feel up to it. The arrival of the omikron variant makes it even more important that we all take responsibility. With the current number of infections and the situation in nursing homes, home care and hospitals, there is no room for a variant that is even more contagious, because at the time that it appears that omikron is outsmarting the current vaccine, we are too late. Shouldn't we step up our efforts and prepare a sausage case scenario as a precaution? And why do we not temporarily close the airspace for incoming flights from outside Europe, as other countries do? Then the booster shot. There's really not a day to lose. Is there a schematic prepared in case it appears that the current vaccine does not protect the high-risk groups enough against the new variant? Is the Minister prepared for that? With the motion that I tabled together with Mr Paternotte, we started boosters a short three weeks earlier, but we are still dangling like the Netherlands at the bottom of the list. The Minister says the campaign is coming on steam, but what does this prove? It has been known for some time that the GGD is understaffed. Today the newspaper said that recruitment outside the GGD only started last week and that many groups who can and want to help have not yet been approached. The GGD GHOR indicated today that there is no plan to deploy, for example, the Defence personnel, who are standing by, and students. Furthermore, we see today in the news that 6 million vaccines are ready to be pricked. Mr. Chairman. I feel like I'm a gramophone record that sticks in the same groove each time. Again and again I ask for this and I get the answer that outside help is not necessary. But then it turns out that too late is anticipated and aid is not accepted or not accepted in good time, which, in retrospect, we could have used well. How is the Minister going to solve that properly this time? The Patient Federation has called for priority to be given to people under the age of 60 with vulnerable health. The interval between the second injection and the booster vaccine is very large for them. Can the Minister ensure adequate protection by the vaccine for this group? Mr. Chairman. Corona is a multifaceted monster. There isn't one solution to solve this. Vaccination and boosters are of course very important, but we also need to use other and new medicines quickly, such as antiviral medicines. In particular, it is important to ensure that they are available to the risk groups: the elderly and people with vulnerable health. Antivirals provide 30% reduction in hospital admissions. When the first symptoms or a positive test occur, these pills should be taken for five days. One of the means, for example, is Lagevrio. This medicine is already widely used in the UK. I understand that a reservation has also been made by the Netherlands, but we are still waiting for the approval of the EEA. It only arrives in mid-December and then we go after the facts again. It must be taken at the first symptoms. How are we gonna do this logistics? The stoffer motion of 16 September calls for a plan of action. I know there's a discussion going on, but I'd like to know what's going on with the Minister. After the first vaccination campaign and the booster campaign, are we not going to repeat ourselves, which makes us late again and does not have a plan of action in time? Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the under-employment in the care sector. I also said it yesterday during the Social Affairs budget debate: job seekers who want to volunteer in healthcare do not get permission from the UWV. After all, healthcare institutions are not an anbi- or sbbi-organisations and therefore they should not be allowed by the UWV. Isn't that a complete idiot? Last weekend I volunteered for health care myself. I'm gonna do it every weekend from now on. Sunday I did my first day shift in a rehabilitation center with nine sick people in one department and schedules that can't get around. We've spent the whole day together with the four of us taking care of 28 heavy rehabilitation patients, including patients recovering from covid. So many extra hands are needed in care. Let all those people who want to do something and who are now looking for work just get to work in the care sector. Legislation and regulations should not stand in the way of us, especially in this situation. Each extra pair of hands gives relief. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you. Chairman and best inhabitants of the Netherlands. Last week I was shocked by the words of Mr Gommers, who explained to us what code black is going to mean. Especially the fact that nurses are going to make choices in who can and who cannot be helped has touched me deeply. That's an inhuman choice. What also touched me is that at the time Mr Gommers called the alarm clock, the Minister of Health questioned his words, even the next day. I was appalled to see the Minister of Health, who is also Mr Gommers' Minister of Health, openly losing his people. Mr. Chairman. This summer I voted several times in favour of motions for a resolution on the abolition of all corona measures. I did so at a time when the infections and hospitalizations were virtually absent. I did that in the confidence that this cabinet had covid under control. I did that because I thought we were coming out of the crisis. With the science of retrospect you can reason everything, but if I had known what kind of mess we were in for, then I would have made another choice at the time. However, the mess strengthens me in my plea from the previous corona debate to set up a coronacoldcase team with, preferably, as temporary Minister of Health Marcel Levi, a professional. There was some laughing about the coronacoldcase team. Luckily, ever since then, more and more sounds have been going on to replace the team. Mr. Chairman. I'm disappointed, too. Disappointed because the cabinet has once again presented a list of measures that are likely to have little impact on the virus, measures that I think are, to some extent, counterproductive. The new measures are massively pushing people into their homes: no more evening sports, no more catering, no more movies. Most infections are already taking place at home, and so they only become more, especially because people are inside in the winter and there is little ventilating. Again, during the press conference, the minister couldn't resist sowing dichotomy. Again he points all his arrows at "the" unvaccinated. I can only conclude that this is a way to distract from one's own inability. Because even if all unvaccinated people were vaccinated, we still had problems. Still, the ic couldn't handle it. Still, the virus went around. In all the communications of this cabinet, I haven't heard anything about getting the care in order. I haven't heard anyone say, "Listen, we have to do this because we haven't been able to put the care in order. Since we were warned in 2016 by the security services that the ICIs were not equipped with a pandemic, but we did not do anything about it, we need to put you, the Dutch people, back in a lockdown. You, the care, the people who are sick in any way in the Netherlands, are punished for our facts. We offer you our humble apologies for this. We have not handled it properly, but please, hold on for a while and at least make sure that the pressure on care is reduced. We have failed to do so. But we promise you that we will make sure that we never end up in this mess again, but never again." The unrest and the division are great, but I am convinced that by saying something like that, by showing leadership, we can start by gluing the cracks in our society. Is the Prime Minister going to show this leadership? Mr. Chairman. Private clinics have indicated that they can help with the care, but they get zero on the reekest. There are also foreign-educated nurses who want to work here, but cannot do so because they do not know the language level B1. Since we need all the support in the whole care, I ask the Minister to find a solution to this. I'd like to hear his reaction to that. And take the training courses with you in healthcare. More and more students end their education thanks to all lockdowns. What is the Minister going to do to reverse this trend? Mr. Chairman. As a result of the new measures, many people are unable or hardly able to play sports anymore. I find it incomprehensible that the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport thinks that is a good idea. Sport contributes to health. It makes the body stronger, more resistant to disease, against viruses. Tackling a virus by weakening the citizens is putting the horse behind the cart. I urge the Minister and the Prime Minister to label sport as an essential sector, starting tonight and then all the following times. I hope, moreover, that these next times will not come and will also table a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I call once again on the people at home to comply with the basic measures. Wash your hands, keep your distance. Do you have any complaints? Then stay home. Mr Van Dissel, President of the OMT, also stressed that this could contain the virus. Dear people, we owe it to all the people who are in the hospital and on the ICUs and all the other sick and vulnerable and the care staff. If The Hague is not able to control the virus, then the Netherlands should do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u122	I'm counting on everyone's common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The more of these debates we have, the more despondent I am. It is not or hardly about the fundamental choices that have been made over the past two years, the disastrous and deadly strategy that has been chosen and the enormous consequences it has in so many places in society. Like no one in this house can handle the hard truth. This missionary cabinet renounces its constitutional duty to protect public health. The outgoing directors receive an opinion from the OMT, half of which they move aside. There will be a press conference before the Chamber is informed and a few days later it will be our turn and we will be able to pull strings here on the most marginal, but very far-reaching details for the citizen. And that's what we've been accepting for two years. There was no action when Corona was first spotted. It took months. It has been claimed for months that mouth caps would not work, while recent research has shown that it is the most effective measure for preventing infections. The start of the vaccination program, like the boosters now, was a complete drama. The number of times that an exciting decision was made that put lives at risk and allowed far too early to relax, I sincerely lose that. And even then, there were no consequences. There is absolutely no question of international solidarity at this time of crisis. The result is apparently a surprise to many that borders, as it turns out, are only a construct for a virus as well. As with many problems in this world, capitalism and market forces were at the root of this problem. For while we, the rich West, with wealth accumulated over the back of the rest of the world, have bought up the entire world supply of vaccines, the rest remains empty-handed. Mr. Chairman. I cannot conclude this debate without saying something about the corona ticket. People whose infection has not been determined without measures on a pawn when they feel fully protected are a recipe for disaster and everyone can know that. The WHO has been saying for months that such a policy does not work, because vaccines are not in themselves a direct measure to prevent contamination. And what does the missionary cabinet do? They slowly expand the system, resulting in enormous polarization and an increasing number of infections. The recent OMT opinion made a calculation. It became clear from this that testing everyone equally is by far the most effective measure to prevent people from getting infected, ending up in a hospital or even dying. You'd almost think it could help if you knew in advance if someone was contagious or not. But that's not the outcome this cabinet chooses. It is painful, but sometimes I also have to correct myself and make sure once again that, contrary to what I would like, contrary to what my party would like, there is no test against the maximum possible prevention of infections. In all communication, in all action it is very clear that it is always and has been about softening. That was and is the strategy. Infections, and therefore people who become ill for a long time or even die, are acceptable. Risks calculated. As long as the pressure on the ICUs doesn't get too high. With this choice, the cabinet failed to comply with the precautionary principle, with the maintenance of public health. And that is, dear Chamber, Mr President, how we ended up here today. It's already code black. It was code black months ago. I dare say it was already code black in the care for this whole pandemic. Again and again we are too late and can start again from the beginning. That is what these debates should be about, about that fundamental issue and, as far as I am concerned, about those fundamental mistakes. That choice lies at the heart of everything we are discussing here. Why measures don't make sense. Why so-called mistakes are repeated over and over again. Why there's always late intervention. That is what my party has done from the start, what we are doing again today and what we will continue to do. The enormous injustice that has been done to so many people with this policy deserves to continue to be appointed forever, and with my one seat I will try again and again. With my one seat, I also have the nerve to ask this cabinet when they will look at all the sick and all the dead and how they see the correlation between the policies they have chosen and the situation in our country. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. During the press conference, Minister De Jonge reiterated that the problem in hospitals is caused by the unvaccinated. That's a dangerous misdemeanor. It's exciting and it's just not true. The real problem is that nothing has been done to scale up the number of ic-beds, which gives the Netherlands relatively the least ic-beds in the EU. In addition, it is a fact that the people who end up on the ic are almost all old and vulnerable. Most people on the ic have one or more comorbidities and overweight. So let's focus on that. Vaccinating healthy young people has no effect on the ic occupation. The vaccination of children is a criminal absurdity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u127	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u128	I'm getting a little tired of it. We had a technical briefing this morning. Mr Kuipers and Mr Van Dissel are dragging us to the debate about every two weeks. We ask very strongly: who is on the ICUs? Yes, the people who have been vaccinated are the people with underlying vulnerabilities. But the people who have not been vaccinated are really young people, even without underlying suffering. So give me the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u129	This is just not true. Luckily, we had that technical briefing this morning. If you look at the graphs, you can see that no one on the ic comes up with an age of up to 30 years. That fascination with vaccinating healthy young people under 30 is absurd. We were able to see that at the technical briefing this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u130	This is half the story again. 70% of the people on ICU are unvaccinated. A fair number of them are pregnant women. But that's not even the relevant thing. It's not about 18-year-olds, but it's about 40s, 50s and 30s. Surely Mr Van Haga has to acknowledge that? So my plea is not that he should not tell his own story, but I ask him to at least tell the whole story. Because if you tell it unilaterally, you also participate in giving disinformation and you don't tell things honestly. People then make the choice to be vaccinated or not on the basis of information that is incorrect. So please keep it clean and keep it clean. Otherwise, we can just stop the technical briefings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u131	I can bounce that ball back, too. Because of course there are both vaccinees and unvaccinators on the ic. But those are generally people who already have comorbidities and are too heavy. Young people are generally not found there. Of course, there will be a 40-year-old among them. I'm not denying that at all. I'm trying to tell the honest story here, just like you probably are. But the focus on a higher vaccination rate, including young people, is absurd. Because these young people have no effect on the ic occupation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u132	For Volt, the precautionary principle is very important. We want to prevent contamination so that people don't get on the ICU. That is a different debate than that on capacity; it must also be raised. But I would like Mr Van Haga to tell the whole side of the ic-story. Because it's not funny: two IVs in your arm, a central line in your neck, an artery line in your wrist, a stimulant catheter in your groin, a bladder catheter in your urethra, a nostril tube in your esophagus and a ventilator tube in your trachea. I can name a trit of about a dozen medications going through these pipes. It's not fun on the ICU, Mr. Van Haga. I would ask you to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u133	I think Mrs Gündoğan could write better scenarios for horror movies. I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u134	It's kind of weird that there's no question in that. But I think this was a comment from the Leeuwarder Courant; it is always good to add the source. Actually, I have a question about this. Mr Van Haga says: there will be no young people lying on the ice. We hear more and more noises that pregnant people will be lying there. Would he think it would be a good idea for them to be vaccinated when they come on the ic and in some cases even lose their child, or risk losing their child?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u135	I don't deny at all that it reduces the chance of getting on the ic if you're old and vulnerable, if you're in another vulnerable group and have an immune deficiency, for example. That's a fact. I therefore call for people to be given the opportunity to be vaccinated on a voluntary basis. That's no problem at all. My problem is that there has been some kind of fascination or some kind of obsession with vaccination, that we are doing everything we can to increase vaccination readiness and that we are doing everything we can to raise vaccination levels. We also involve young people who are just healthy, who are thin and who have no comorbities. Because you focus on that, you forget that if you focus all your focus on the elderly and the vulnerable you might get a much better result.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u136	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with BVNL that vaccination only reduces vulnerable people's chances of getting to ic and makes little sense for healthy young people to vaccinate? Does he agree that the focus on a high level of vaccination is precisely the wrong focus and that he should have given priority to the voluntary boosters of older people and vulnerable people? Mr. Chairman. The closing of restaurants and non-essential shops at 5 p.m. is incomprehensible. It can be proven to lead to more people in one store per unit of time and the damage is enormous. Does the Minister agree with BVNL? And how can you forbid people from exercising, forbid them from exercising at night, when we know that healthy people barely end up in hospital? If it is not better to stimulate sports, I ask the Minister. How many infections are actually taking place on a football field after five hours? Mr. Chairman. With moving amateurism, laws are now being prepared to introduce the discriminatory and non-working QR pass at work. In addition, the 2G regime will soon be introduced, excluding healthy people. Germany and Austria have already committed vaccination, and we fear that this cabinet will also introduce this into the Netherlands. BVNL opposes this totalitarian regime with its Trojan QR passes that try to subdue us and BVNL will do everything in its power to defend our freedom and fundamental rights. Mr. Chairman. The numbers show that we don't have a problem with a virus, but with incompetent drivers. So use your wits, work out and live healthy. Stop with the masking terror. It's pointless, sickening and humiliating. And finally, don't get tested anymore and don't be forced to vaccinate. For we must never become immune to the lies, discrimination and polarisation of this cabinet, in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u138	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, but first there is an interruption by Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u139	I would just like to make sure that I have understood Mr Van Haga correctly. Did he end his story with a call to stop testing and, if so, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u140	We see very often that more tests are reported in absolute terms. We have so many tens of thousands of tests. We've ended up in some kind of weird society where those tests have become normal. We think that if you test less... of course, if you're really very sick, you should test yourself. But dutifully continuous testing leads to some kind of anxiety psychosis and we say: don't do that, stop with all those crazy test streets. Go to the GP if you have a problem, like you used to. And if you're sick, if you have the flu, you stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u141	Just to be clear, at the moment, one of the basic measures is that you get tested if you have complaints and that you don't go to a doctor with your complaints, where you may be infected in the waiting room, or that you wait a very long time. We saw that during the first wave, for example, that people did not get tested, that they assumed that they had corona and that they then got very sick and then could immediately be driven from the emergency room to the ic. I think that's a scenario we shouldn't want to go back to. My question is, in particular, whether Mr Van Haga would call for one of the basic measures not to be followed, namely to have tests carried out on complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u142	I find it absurd that in primary schools, in secondary schools and in universities you ask completely healthy young people to test themselves if they have a snot nose. That is completely exaggerated. That also has no effect on the ic occupation, so we definitely have to stop doing so. You have to weigh it up for yourself. If you have underlying suffering, morbid obesity or immune deficiency, I'd deal with that differently. But if you're a healthy youngster, that's absolute bullshit, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr. Chairman. We're in the middle of a very intense corona wave, and the care is against code black. As a Chamber we tend to discuss each individual measure separately. But with that, we're missing a few elephants in the Chamber. There is no clear strategy, there is no medium-term planning, there is no minister for Hospitals and General Doctors, and there is a very high excess mortality that is only partly attributed to corona. The strategy. The two scientific advisors of the government, the Scientific Council for Government Policy and the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences, published a report with five scenarios on 2 September. In four of them, Corona stays with us for years. That requires preparation, that requires strategy, and that requires a response. That reaction can't wait until February. Can we get that sooner? Because herd immunity through vaccination is not feasible. Even when almost everyone is vaccinated, there are outbreaks. See Portugal, where 98% of people have been vaccinated. There are outbreaks there too. So I'd like a strategy. Mr. Chairman. Medium-term planning. In the Netherlands there is no test capacity and no source and contact research. There is enough in the countries around us. In the Netherlands, we cannot quarantine an aircraft in a decent way. In other countries, we can do that. In the surrounding countries, boosters are administered: 1 million in Belgium, 10 million in Germany, 15 million in the United Kingdom. In the Netherlands, there are 0.1 million. So you see: The Netherlands has very little toasted per 100 people. The UK and the other neighbouring countries have done so. That matters, because once again dozens of people die a painful death in nursing homes. This does not happen in Belgium, because there they started boosters two months earlier. In the Netherlands, the number of deaths in nursing homes is increasing. In Belgium, where they also suffer from the pandemic, the number of light drops. When will we get a decent strategy and a decent medium-term planning? Then the Minister for Hospitals. Every outgoing minister has been replaced in the past year: that of Economic Affairs, that of Foreign Affairs, that of Foreign Trade, that of Defence, too much to mention. But Minister Van Ark got sick in July and resigned. We're in the middle of the crisis without a minister for Hospitals. Does this government intend to re-appoint the second minister of health within a week? Then there's the excess mortality. The excess mortality rate is enormous. 900 people a week more than expected. At about 300 of them are given as official cause corona. But where does the rest come from? Is that the care infarction? Is that underreporting at Corona? Or is there another cause? Will the government ask an academic committee to find out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. That's what brought us to the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u146	Not quite, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mrs Agema wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u148	I would like to point out that, since you, as President, have cut this debate short and cut the number of interruptions so much, we do not know why Mrs Kuik was so praised for the officials of VWS. We do not know whether she is negotiating, for example, supporting 2G and getting back that we will not get a corona ticket at work. Because at the next debate on these corona tickets, of course, everything is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u149	One thing. We've made agreements with each other in advance. You did not agree, but the other Members agreed. I think it's important to have said that. Mrs. Kuik, you were addressed, so you will have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u150	I appreciate Mrs Agema very much, but she should not do so, because she also takes the measure of the officials. Some of them are old colleagues of mine. There are hundreds of people working around the clock who sometimes feel very badly treated by us. I know. They can never defend themselves but get all the shit over them, so I may occasionally express a token of appreciation. It is a pity that you cannot do that, because you are completely in your own pocket of politics, but that is my consideration. And yes, they are also former colleagues of mine, because I was a civil servant myself. So I know what's going on. So do not do that, but speak to me at that time; do not do that over the backs of the officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u151	I have nothing against the U.S. officials, but you do speak to them and I don't speak to them. And I'm very curious why you're running down the door!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u152	Because I'm just a nice woman, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u153	Is it possible to go back to the debate on some very serious measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u154	I have just arrived at the moment when I say that we have come to the end of the first term on the side of Chamber. The directors have indicated that they need about an hour to answer the questions properly for us, so I will suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u155	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. This is the first term on the part of the directors, the cabinet. First, I give the floor to the Prime Minister. I understand that the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media will then speak because he has only been asked a single question. Then we will continue the debate with the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. I shall therefore be the first to give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u156	I am going to stretch your goodness even more by asking whether it is right for Mr Slob to leave after he has replied, and Hugo de Jonge and I will then take the possible motions on his response. Mr. Chairman. I think we'll get straight to the point. I have been asked a number of questions: the package, communication, and enforcement. There are also a few other questions. I'm just gonna start with the measures. Then, after the Minister for Education has spoken, the Minister for Health will answer the other questions. You can see that the OMT is based on the analysis they make of the situation, the epidemiological picture, and then looks at what is necessary on that basis. Against this background, a question has also been asked about getting insight into the calculations. During today's technical briefing, Mr Van Dissel replied to a similar question that he was looking at what is possible. I understand that the idea now is that there will be calculations on the website next week, but then you have to think about the system of the contact matrix. That's the basis for the calculations. It is not possible to put a calculation on the site per measure, as these are always made in packets. This, of course, always has to do with the degree of compliance and at all events with the basic measures, compliance, etc. But that's what you'll be seeing next week. Then I think we should continue to talk about whether that is to focus even further on the questions that live in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The aim of the measures is to reduce the contact moments from 25% to 35%. At least that is the expected outcome of the package of measures. Thus, the expectation of the modellers of RIVM is that the R-number actually falls below 1. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of concrete measures. One of them is the sport. I see a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u157	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mrs. Agema. We agreed on six questions and/or comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u158	I have a question about the Prime Minister's approach to reducing the contact moments and his great belief that if he takes out the contact moments, the number of infections will decrease. I'm not gonna say it's easy to fight the corona virus, even though it jumps over when you breathe each other's breath. That's incredibly difficult. But when I look at the mobility trends of Google and Apple, I see that we are all following the measures the Prime Minister is putting forward less and less closely. So the number of contact moments is getting less and less. Can he reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u159	If everyone complied with the basic agreements plus the advice, there would be no need for additional packages at all. The problem is that that doesn't happen. Of course, there is never 100% compliance, but it is indeed too little. I also said something in the press conference about the success or failure of communication on this point on the part of the cabinet and myself. But because that is not enough, you must also impose additional measures, such as closing down sectors. Mr. Chairman. Then the sport. I really don't think we should. I'm just gonna be honest with you right now. I know that the question of whether we cannot exclude sport is a broad one in the Chamber, but we now have a package of measures that are really necessary to achieve the reduction. The sport is a very large sector. Even if you only do it for young people, this means that in the evenings larger groups will move again: children, parents who bring and fetch, sports inside and sports in large groups outside. That's a lot of moves and contacts. I'm really against that. I'm just gonna be honest with you. If there are parties who say 'you must allow it again', I also want to know what measure we will add to the package, because then we will really fall under the OMT recommendation. I hear many of the members of the House of Representatives express concern about the situation in hospitals. I do not think that this is part of the package. If the question then arises what it does: it is exactly what the OMT says. It's always about a coherence of everything. The point is that you cross the board from 17:00 in the afternoon you have a far-reaching limitation on the number of contacts between people, because the catering industry is closed, the sport is closed, the cultural institutions are closed and so on. So I await the motions, but I say immediately: I would have great difficulty if it were not the case what the Chamber would like to do to bring it back to the level of the OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you. There are a few interruptions, first of all from Mr Van Haga, then from Mr Hijink and then from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u161	I still have a question about the 5:00. During the technical briefing Mr Van Dissel told us that that time had actually been chosen to have more clarity or to make it simpler. But it is almost impossible to explain that you are not allowed to work out on a sports complex, but in a park, that you are not allowed to play tennis on a tennis park, but on a private tennis court, and that you are not allowed to work out at a football club, but on a private field. So that's just shifting. Can the Prime Minister imagine that this might seem logical or unambiguous, but this leads to a great deal of misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u162	No, I honestly don't understand. We're just dealing with a serious crisis. The contagion rates are getting way too fast. We need to get the reproduction number below 1. There will always be leaks; that is inevitable. There's always gonna be people who start exercising in a different way. That doesn't have to be a problem, by the way. If people go for a run or stand in a field opposite each other to kick a ball, that's fine. But during training sessions in the evening, large groups are moving around and they just shouldn't have that now. It just can't be. I hate it, too. As far as I'm concerned, the evening port is the first thing you'll allow when things get better. That's what we agreed in the Cabinet. Now that the schools are open, I think we should really put that on the priority list. Otherwise, you'd put the schools on one, but you don't have to now. As far as I'm concerned, that evening port is the first thing you'll recover. But right now, we really shouldn't. We really have the need to reduce the virus and the OMT also calculates the whole package on the percentages I just indicated. That's enough, but it's not like we have a huge overshoot. I really think it's too big a risk to figure something out right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u163	I think the Prime Minister is underestimating how that works in the sports world. It's not like, if you're an active skater, soccer player, tennis player or hockey player, you can go for a run at night. No. Moreover, that number of movements is not so bad. People go on a bike to a football field, and they kick a ball there with their 22's. If they can't, they'll do it somewhere else. So the net effect on the spread of the virus is marginal, I think, and the net effect on people's reduced health is, I think, present. I still blame the Prime Minister for not taking that side effect with him again. People aren't crazy. Call it a demonstration, like LSVV is doing right now, and then you're gonna play football with 22 people. The demonstration is then accompanied by a black-dressed gentleman with a whistle. Then it's solved that way, or people are going to teach tennis on a private job. But again, I think it would make an incredible difference to exclude this sport, including the adoption of measures to combat the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u164	No, it doesn't. I think it's really unwise. I explained to you what RIVM is letting us know. This may result in a reduction of 25% to 35% of the contact moments. We really need that one to get that R under 1. There'll always be a leak. I also say to the Netherlands that of course we do not do this because we like it. We're doing this because it's necessary. If two people are going to run or if two people are going to stand opposite each other to kick a ball, that's fine, but if 22 people are going to play in a park, with a trainer or a black-dressed referee, you will not help in any way to fight the virus. Then it also stops once that happens on a large scale. But that doesn't happen on a large scale. You can see that in the evening it is terribly much quieter in the Netherlands that was earlier after 8 p.m. and now after 5 p.m. because fortunately the vast majority of people are now very aware of the fact that we are dealing with a serious crisis. So I think it is really unwise to take things out of the package now. I'm thrilled that we don't have a lockdown like before, that we can limit it to after five and that we can keep the schools open, but... Oh! Oh, my gosh! Sorry, my coffee. That's not convenient. So we can keep the schools open, but let's not... we're fine. Well, not really...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u165	Maybe it'd be useful if I just took a little bark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u166	My papers still work, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u167	Yeah? I'm suspending for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u168	Everything back under control in box-K?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u169	Yes! Sure. In the meantime, I'm gonna clean it up a little bit more here. I'm just combining it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u170	In the meantime, I would like to give Mr Van Haga an opportunity to put a question. Go ahead, Mr. Van Haga, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u171	Thank you. Yeah, we're gonna have a little fun, but of course this isn't funny at all. There is clearly a complete difference of opinion on how important sport is. I also hope that the hockey association, the tennis association and the football association will watch, because I seriously think that this will have a big and disastrous effect on health. However, sport and the health that this produces are apparently not so important, and safety is. And that brings me to my final point. In the previous semilockdown or intelligent lockdown or whatever those things are called, the swimming lesson for children was still exempt. It's not right now. However, I would strongly urge that children's swimming lessons be exempted from these strange measures, so that children can at least continue to receive swimming lessons. That's good for their safety and for their health, so those are two birds with one stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u172	Mr Van Haga mistakenly assumes that I do not understand how important sport is. Of course I understand that and we all understand that. We are only dealing with a serious crisis in care due to a far too high number of infections. That is why, unfortunately, it is necessary to make a comprehensive package that gives clarity from 5 p.m. onwards. I simply find it unwise to take this element out of it. Apart from the damage that this does to clarity, it also leads to many travel and contact moments. And I don't think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u173	Was that last answer about swimming lessons or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u174	For everything we want to add now, Mr. Van Haga, you must also provide cover. It's like the budget. Then you must now tell me where you want to weigh up a measure and that there is also support for it in the Chamber. But we're not gonna lighten up the package right now. We really shouldn't. Then we'd better do a whole lockdown of 24 hours a day, and we don't want any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u175	Finally. That's exactly the difference of opinion. BVNL believes that the net effect of making an exception for sports or swimming lessons for children is positive, and not negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u176	Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u177	I think all we have to do is look at the Prime Minister's motor skills to see how important sports are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u178	Absolutely. You saw the flexibility with which I solved it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u179	And that you shouldn't shut that down, either. I think it illustrates exactly the problem that we have now been having for a year and a half with this kind of debate. If there are any questions about whether there is criticism of a particular measure, we are immediately told by the Prime Minister: if you do not do so, you will go under the OMT advice and that is dangerous; never get started, can't be. I predicted that earlier. As a Chamber, we have no idea of any alternatives. The Prime Minister has just said to Mr Van Haga: you will have to submit a different proposal yourself. But we do not have the information that RIVM and OMT, for example, do, on the basis of which they make their choices. I'm assuming that at the OMT it's not some kind of grabbelton that comes out once. As an MP, I just want to be able to do my job properly and control the government for the measures it is taking. If I see an illogical measure, such as stopping amateur sport, then I just want to hear from the Prime Minister: if you do not want to do so, this means that you would have to make other choices about shops or catering, for example. But he shouldn't put that ball with us, because we don't have the information that the government, and probably the OMT and the RIVM, have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u180	Given the time, Mr President, I have already given that answer. I explained in detail that Mr Van Dissel spoke about this this afternoon in the briefing and that RIVM has now appointed that the calculations will be published on the website next week. The system of the contact matrix is indicated. That's the basis for the calculations. This does not mean that you get calculations per measure, but it does make it clear how the packages are calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u181	That's not a serious answer to the question I'm asking, is it? We would like to see and have that information, and also have an overview of the different scenarios for which you could choose. I am now taking amateur sport out, but there are many examples, which we have had in other debates, in which we are presented with a ready-made package. Take it or leave it, because if you don't want it, it'll be a complete lockdown, the Prime Minister says. Isn't that a serious way of debating and looking at what you could do, for example, to get young people to work out? There is no prospect that this will go off again. I just want to prevent us from taking away our young people, our youth for weeks or months. This can have very disastrous consequences in the long term. I believe that the Prime Minister should take this seriously and also take us into account in what might be an alternative, for example in the case of hotels and shops, or possibly stricter work at home, to which there is still a very moderate response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u182	One: we are in an incredibly serious situation, where there is a risk that it will go the wrong way in intensive care. We're doing everything we can to reverse that trend. In my opinion, we are also largely in agreement in this Chamber, especially the two of us. I didn't think there'd be any discussion about that. Then the question is, what are you doing? Fortunately, the package of 12 November now shows some effect; you can now see that in the figures. But the OMT has told us that there really should be an additional package of measures on top of that. The urgent advice was: keep it simple, do it across the board, so close all sectors in the Netherlands from 5:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. and then the education can stay open. This has a certain effect, also on the reduction of the number of contacts. I fully understand Mr Hijink's question, which says: I want to have more insight into what is underneath. I must warn him: it is not so that the OMT or the RIVM is able to calculate by measure exactly what it does on the R. This level of detail is simply not possible in model form. However, they can show the contact matrix, and show how they calculate packages based on it. We have, of course, talked in the cabinet about what to do. Do you do it from 5:00 to 5:00? Do you do it 24 hours a day? Do we dare to follow the OMT in this? It's got an overshoot, but not a dramatic overshoot. It's not like we're doing a lot more than we need to do right now, but it seems enough and fortunately the package of November 12th is working, so we are confident that this will really bring the R below 1. But it's a total package. Mr Hijink's question will, as far as possible, be answered by RIVM next week, after Van Dissel's undertaking at the hearing. I would also like to see this for myself, to see whether I feel that this is an answer to Mr Hijink's question. And then we can talk about it further. So I get that question. But it is simply not possible to say: the sport from five o'clock does exactly this for the R. It is clear that the whole package will have this effect, that it is sufficient, that it is more than sufficient, but it is not very large enough. So I'm warning you to get things out of there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u183	Let me take a look at Mr Paternotte. No. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u184	Surely it is not possible to have a good debate with each other about what works and what doesn't. It's nice to have the calculations on the website next week. We asked for them ourselves this morning, but we're still talking tonight about whether the package that's in front of us, which was sent to us in the letter, which was announced in the press conference, is enough to bring down the reproduction number? Now I heard the Minister of Health say clearly at the last press conference: it is quite enough to get that R down. And we have no way of checking that here, because we do not know the considerations, we do not know the discussion, the minutes of the consultations are not released, and we simply do not know what measure will have what effect. I would like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister: does he expect the Chamber to be able to carry out with each other this controlling role that is expected of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u185	Actually, I do. I will also say: the OMT models the package. The RIVM does that for the OMT, of course. The OMT has said: this package shows a reduction of 25% to 35% of the contact moments. That's also really necessary to eventually get that R under 1. That's one. Two. I understand the question very well: yes, but what exactly is that about? I have known for some time now from our discussions with the RIVM and the OMT that it is not possible to say what he is doing by measure. It just can't be. That's impossible to model. RIVM's modelleurs are the world's leading modelleurs. They take care of the models that the whole world uses, but they cannot give that degree of detail. What you can do is show what the contact matrix looks like on the basis of which packages are presented. You can also show the effects of the different packages you base on them. This is one of those packages. What is not possible is to take out sport and then replace it with something else. If you take out the sport, the effect will be greatly reduced, because in that sport it involves a lot of movements, in the evening for training and sometimes also competitions. Then it's said that people are going to find alternatives. Unfortunately, that will always be the case, but my appeal to the Netherlands is well known.I know that I know the vast majority of the Netherlands behind me and we all know not to go looking for those escapes. Just try and make sure we get that situation right in the hospitals. Mrs Westerveld, we cannot deliver this simply is not possible because of the effect of each measure individually. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u186	My point is not just about sport either, my point is much wider. There is a package with a whole range of measures that we do not know what the impact is. We don't know the effect of closing the stores an hour earlier. Maybe it's counterproductive. We don't know what the effect of the corona tickets is. Maybe they didn't work right. And we make very far-reaching decisions here that directly affect people's lives. We weigh fundamental rights against each other, and we have no idea of the effect of many measures, whether they are working or perhaps working counter-productively. I ask the Prime Minister: does he think that we have the right arguments on the table, know the right considerations, to weigh these decisions as Chambers well enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u187	That's what I think. In addition, we all inevitably sail a little bit in the mist. 100% vision is just not there. For example, I cannot see what it does by measure. Again, RIVM's modellers are the best in the world. RIVM also discusses the current level of compliance with the basic rules in its opinion. A measure is not considered in isolation, but always in connection with compliance with the basic rules and other behavioural aspects. If the RIVM tells us that the package will reduce you from 25% to 35%, then you are very likely to get there. Fortunately, you can now see the first effects of the package of November 12th with the R of 1.05 coming from 1.21. I understand the question, but then I say to the Chamber: let's see what RIVM comes up with next week with that contact matrix. Maybe that answers the question in part. And perhaps we should continue that conversation with the RIVM together to get more detail in that type of measures and to see what information that provides for decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u188	We've been in this crisis for almost two years. We're not doing very well in the Netherlands. We may have the best modelers, but the decisions we make here are not the best decisions in the world. That's why things keep going wrong with us. What surprises me is that something else is being taken from the cabinet tool basket. I gave the example of sport in my own contribution to show that we are always struggling with different rules, that often entrepreneurs, but indeed the people in the schools and the volunteers in the football clubs, no longer know which regime is applicable and why we are actually doing so. This also removes the support for the measures. Something doesn't add up to the way we set it up with each other, does it? Then we must do something else, if we simply find that we are not doing at all well compared to the rest of the world where we are struggling with exactly the same dilemmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u189	Then I have to ask Mrs Westerveld what she wants now. Does she want to know what the effect is per measure? That's impossible to deliver. That's not possible. That's what we were told by the RIVM. They can't deliver that. No one can. No RIVM in the world is able to say by measure exactly what it does on the R. They can show you what packages do. They can show you how the contact matrix works. It is not my unwillingness, but she is asking for something that the experts say they cannot deliver to that extent. Let us see what they can do and then continue this discussion with them on how we can further detail it where possible, so that this decision-making can also take place more precisely according to the wishes of the Chamber. I fully understand that, but I cannot say here that we can indicate it by measure, because that is not what those modelers can deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u190	That is precisely why I have concluded my contribution with a number of things that do work, which they have experience with in other countries, which professionals and scientists say: this is evidencebased, this works. It is good to put that question back, but I hope that the motions we are about to table will be able to count on a positive opinion. We simply need to see what other countries are doing. What do scientists say? What works and what doesn't work? We can do much better than that. I think my plea is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u191	I'm just trying to figure out what we disagree about right now. I think we're trying to come up with something together that gives us more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u192	I also understand from the various epidemiologists I speak that it is indeed not possible to calculate it correctly per measure, but the concern is with the next hurdle that the Prime Minister has just mentioned, namely that it will stabilise. In this current situation, with over 200,000 delayed operations, which are moving more and more towards targeted operations, and with an excess mortality rate in this country, I am seriously concerned whether this stabilisation is sufficient to catch up with the delayed care of so many people in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u193	Of course, the OMT had that in mind. It says to us: if you take this package, with an expected reduction of 25 to 35%, you will really get below that 1. You're gonna get underneath that one. This means that the misery is gradually decreasing. To what extent exactly does that happen, of course, we need to look again on 14 December towards 19 December, when we have the next weighing moment. We will have that in mind too, because then you will be two weeks after taking these measures. But that's really what the OMT is advising us. It tells us that this leads to such a decrease that you really get below the one. That's what you need. I agree with Mrs Güntoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u194	Underneath that one, we're in agreement. However, I understand that we should preferably move towards the 0.7............................................................................................................................................................. So my question is: can these measures also be weighed in the light of deferred care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u195	We think this really brings us underneath that one. This is also necessary to give light again at the end of the tunnel and therefore air to the care. We will have to see to what extent that can be done. On 14 December, of course, we will come back to that. Then we have real insight into what it does. Fortunately, the package of 12 November is doing a lot now. At least that's what it looks like, given the fact that that R has fallen to 1.05. That's what this is getting over right now. Well, that helps, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u196	I am a little less euphoric about that, because I understand that the test capacity distorts the number of actual infections and the test behaviour of Dutch people might do the same. So I'm not as comfortable as the prime minister's likely. Maybe I'm a bit more worried by nature, of course. But we're dealing here with a massive care attack. Urgent care can no longer be given. I'm not fake that. That really matters to me. I am currently looking for the concrete basis for what will happen if in one week or two weeks the deferred care is not sufficiently visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u197	I think that question was discussed with Van Dissel this afternoon. He's given similar answers. RIVM has told us that this OMT advice leads to the reduction that really brings us below that 1. Of course, you can then have another discussion about how far you want to bring it back. You can also decide on a full lockdown now, because then it all goes much faster. Finally, the issue of proportionality comes into the picture, and I agree with Mrs Gündoğan that health care needs all the attention at the moment, not so much because of the people who work there, because they work terribly hard and respect us, but above all because of the effects she outlined in her penetrating contribution, which it can have for those who use healthcare. The first thing we have to do here is to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u198	One more question about that R number. The Prime Minister says with great certainty "that dives under 1," but when you read the OMT opinion, there is a list of measures that the OMT identifies as a minimum. There are also measures of laws that we still have to deal with here, so it is impossible for them to participate in the next few weeks. It also mentions the extension of the Christmas holiday by a week in advance. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether that is a condition to be able to dive below 1, or whether we should consider that more as a bonus advice from the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u199	That's a bonus advice. We'll look into that towards December 14th. In the near future, Slob will also discuss how the situation stands at that time and whether it can be useful for us to do so. But I'd like to get that part answered by Arie Slob. That answers a lot of questions about the package, all of them actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u200	There is still a question from Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u201	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u202	Many questions about the package, of course. But what if this isn't enough? We have uncertainty about a new variant. I think a lot of people are wondering what to expect right now. A year and a half ago, the Prime Minister announced the intelligent lockdown. In October the partial lockdown came, in November the temporary increase of the partial lockdown came and in December the real lockdown. Three weeks ago, we got the lockdown-like measures, and now we're in the evening lockdown. I understand that a lot of people ask me what they can expect if it doesn't work out. I would like to put this question to the Prime Minister now, because people want to know whether they will not be able to do sports at all, or whether they will be able to do so, but that the catering industry will close. What can we expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u203	There is absolutely no answer to that now. We really need to see what this is doing. We have been at a stage since 14 September in which we are dealing with a very high level of vaccination in the Netherlands, but we are also dealing with 1.8 million people who have not been vaccinated and who are now arriving in hospital too quickly. They get infected much faster than we hoped and thought, and a whole part of it goes into hospitals, which threatens to place too much burden on care. We are advised this package, which leads to a decline in contacts so that it brings us below 1. We are going to look at this very closely over the next two weeks. And then, of course, ask the OMT for advice on what to do next. But if it doesn't work, what does? I never wanted to answer. I think it would be wiser to look at that step by step and then see what OMT recommends. There are always different possibilities. There is also the bonus advice around the schools that should be looked at again. Right now, we really don't want that. You can't rule anything out, but you'd rather not. Once again, the grass is, fortunately, getting a little greener because of the visibility of the operation of the measures of 12 November, but there is still no way to tell. Mrs Gündoğan is right: it really needs to be below 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u204	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mr. Kuzu, because he just got up. Then Mrs Simons and then Mrs Van de Berg. First Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u205	I actually have a very simple question for the Prime Minister. Can he tell me, and perhaps also the whole country, why a mortgage advisor belongs to essential services and not sports?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u206	We have classified all these sectors, including the extent to which they use the aid packages. None of that is exactly cut. We had to reclassify the whole of the Netherlands as a result of corona last year. A number of sectors have been identified as essential services. This includes these sectors. It is not exactly possible to determine whether one is 100% and the other is not 100%. We don't have that luxury. In this case, however, sport simply leads to an over-infringement of the integrality of the package. That is why I urge the Chamber not to throw that out, because that is really unwise. We really shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u207	That wasn't my question. My question was: why is a mortgage consultant or a coffee shop... that's what I find so strange. I made a mistake during my contribution, because I said coffee shops should close at 8:00. I've had a lot of reactions that coffeeshops can stay open until 11:00 or 00:00 to pick up. I ask the Prime Minister: how can it be that measures are being taken to allow coffee shops and mortgage advisers to stay open longer and to close gyms? I'm really wondering. I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to explain this to me, not with the answer we gave at the time. What's the logic behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u208	There is never a hundred percent, but at the coffee shops, of course, it is quite obvious. You don't want that trade to move to the street, where weed users it's very unwise if they do, but it's allowed in the Netherlands to get near hard drugs. You don't want that. That's why we've always told you to keep those coffee shops open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u209	Mrs Simons van BER1 and then Mrs Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u210	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u211	Yeah, go ahead. Excuse me, Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u212	To shut it down. The Prime Minister says there is no 100% logic. I conclude that we are taking measures that are not based on logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u213	Yeah, we are, but it's never a hundred percent cut. The number of people who move to the mortgage consultant is really considerably more limited than the number of people who work out in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u214	I hear the outgoing Prime Minister saying that we really need to get under one. It'll be okay. Then suddenly there's no more care infarction. Then we can scale up the regular care again. I wonder: what's his end game today, right now? What are the frameworks for the moment he says: yes, we have it under control? Is that, for example, when the R is under 1 again? Or is that the moment, and I fear that that moment may last for a few more years, when the care functions in a normal way again? When is this outgoing Prime Minister satisfied with the approach adopted so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u215	A very broad question, but at the heart it is not correct, because I did not say that. I didn't say I'm happy when we're under one. I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u216	I just heard the people at home and in the Chamber say that it is very important to get back under 1, in response to questions from Mrs Gündoğan, who spoke about deferred care. In that light, I ask the question again. I am not going to repeat it, because we must keep it short and concise. There is an intelligent outgoing Prime Minister, who knows very well what I mean by my question. Unlike the outgoing Prime Minister, I don't underestimate him. You're an intelligent man, so you understand my question. When will it be all right for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u217	That's gonna have to be one step at a time. We knew we were in a phase of reviving the virus. I told you, that's too fast, faster than we thought and hoped. The 1.8 million unvaccinated people get to the hospital too quickly, putting too much pressure on care. Yeah, also vaccinees come into the hospital, but if it were just the vaccinees, the care would be fine. In combination with those very large numbers of non-vaccines, especially on the ic, but in half of the cases on the hospital beds, that's a strain on the care we can't handle. That is why we need to take these measures. The first thing we need to achieve now is that the number of infections is going to fall and not rise any further and that the pressure is going to go down in hospitals as well. Then, step by step, we need to look at what this offers in hospitals to scale up ordinary care. Over the next two weeks, we must ensure that we really take the bend with this blow, as was said on Friday. For the longer term, De Jonge will go into this in more detail. We now have the approach for the autumn, which is to ensure that you get recovery under control, with signal values. Hugo de Jonge will explain in a moment how we want to talk to the Chamber about the slightly longer term, from January or February. Questions have also been asked about how we want to ensure, along five lines, that we can further refine that strategy towards spring. This is what we do in discussions with civil society organisations and social partners. But at the moment, this is the strategy: to ensure that we control revivals, that we spread the 1.8 million infections, all of which unfortunately are still coming from the people who have not been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u218	If I understand correctly, the answer to my question is that it is about care. It's about spreading infections. If I understand the answer correctly, it is already accepted that these infections are going to happen. That is certainly not the case. We send or monitor when the R comes under 1 and the care can go back to normal functioning. Is that what we're working towards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u219	No, it's not that black and white. Of course, we have said before that the people who are not vaccinated will probably all become ill. That's what the experts tell us. They'll all get corona sometime. You want to avoid that happening in too short a time, because then care becomes overloaded and that is what is happening now in intensive care and in hospitals. That care needs to be covered up. But, of course, you'd prefer to have these people vaccinated so that they don't get sick or get so sick that they get into the hospital. That's why vaccination is so terribly important. That's the smartest thing for this group of people, because then they won't get that fucking disease. And if they get it, which isn't entirely ruled out, the chances of them getting into the hospital are much smaller. For example, the chance of getting into intensive care is 25 times smaller with a vaccine than without a vaccine. You can also see the proportions in the normal hospital beds. What we need to achieve is to slow down the excessive influx of non-vaccines into care. We do this by reducing the number of contact moments in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u220	I will ask my last question on this point, because there will soon be a minister with a wonderful story that I would like to ask some more questions. Just for the people at home, so that we all understand: we have accepted that everyone is going to get sick. We place the responsibility on a small group of people, many of whom cannot be vaccinated and the rest simply use their fundamental right not to be forced into vaccination. We're at about 90% vaccination, but we're looking at recent developments in hospitalizations against that small group that hasn't been vaccinated. In the end it's just: as long as the care and as long as the ic's don't break up, it goes as expected and planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u221	You could turn it around, too. The people who have not been vaccinated are mainly in hospitals. As a result, people have the fear of not being able to go to hospitals, because it is now so overloaded by people who have not been vaccinated. Mrs Gündoğan just had a compelling example of this from her personal situation. So you could turn it around, too. If you want to make sure that those 1.8 million people who are not vaccinated do not all get the disease, then the Netherlands has to lock down permanently, or you have to force them somehow to take a vaccine. There is no support for that either. In the end, it is inevitable that they become ill. However, you have to try to spread that over time, so that they don't all come on the ic at the same time. But it's their choice not to take a vaccine. The vast majority of people choose or have not yet taken the decision. I sincerely hope that the latter will still decide to take the vaccine. There's a very small group that can't have a vaccine for medical reasons. Of course, we're working on it to see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u222	First Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA and then Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u223	I'd like to come back to the sport. We had also asked questions about outdoor sports for young people after 5 p.m. We wanted to know if there was any room for that. The Prime Minister has made it extremely clear that we should not do that now. He mentioned one word, and I would like to explain that. He said that the sport after this is "priority" for him. Can he explain that a little further?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u224	That's what we discussed in the Cabinet. Exactly this discussion took place in the cabinet. That's what most people hold their hearts for. First for education: fortunately that can stay open. Then for sport and especially sport for young people. We have said to each other that we should not be under the OMT advice now, but if there is some room again at some point, let us agree that we have said this to each other in the cabinet, and that sport for young people will open first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u225	One of the Prime Minister's favourite expressions is "step by step." We've been a year. Isn't it time to take an eagle perspective? It's a year later now. This morning, Mr Kuipers also said that the pressure on care is greater than it was a year ago. I think we all agree on that. The excess mortality rate is also higher than it was a year ago. If you take that eagle's perspective for once, will you be able to look at everything and think that perhaps we are all on the wrong path and that we should take a completely different path? We have been a year and the situation has only got worse on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u226	We discussed the eagle perspective with each other in September. That's that with this degree of vaccination you have to start from three possible scenarios: the disease becomes endemic, there will be an outbreak variant or.................................................................................................................................................... That's where we're at. We need to keep that revival under control. We knew that in September too, when we scaled down measures. You can now see that the speed with which non-vaccines become ill and enter the hospital is so high that it leads to a great burden on care. Yeah, vaccinees get there, too. If that had been limited to vaccinees, then the care could have handled that well. That is why we need to take measures to ensure that it is spread more, to encourage people to get a vaccine and to have a booster programme for people in the Netherlands who are starting to have a less effective vaccine. That's how we look at it. Then you have the question of how you look at the whole situation for the slightly longer term. You talk about January and February. We have also discussed this in detail. Hugo de Jonge will look into how we deal with a strategy along five tracks for January, February and March in close dialogue with the Chamber. Then we also have a look through the autumn. Of course, we have to deal with a form of corona control for a longer period of time, but hopefully not with this intensity. We also want to do this with social partners, with experts, but certainly also in very close consultation with the House of Representatives. We will send a letter on 14 December. So the eagle perspective at the moment is: there were three scenarios in September. The scenario that is now coming out is the scenario of the revivals. We also chose that scenario, because that seemed most likely to us. The September OMT opinion that we adopted also went in that direction. Again, the number of infections we're dealing with is far too high and much higher than we hoped and thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u227	Interesting what you're saying. Isn't there a danger that we'll never get out of here again if it gets endemic? I think I hear that noise with the CDA and D66. You indicate yourself: 80% has been vaccinated. Pfizer himself says about the vaccines: after six months you have to start boostering again. My point is that in a year's time, we'll be in exactly the same situation, apart from those few people who've had extra vaccination. We'll never get out of here. The coronavirus is then a kind of new seasonal flu that keeps us in lockdowns forever and ever. Do you understand my question? If we go on like this, isn't there a great chance that in five or six years' time we'll still be in exactly the same situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u228	If Mr Van Houwelingen wants to hear from me that we will soon be completely rid of corona: I cannot promise him that. That's not likely. You want the degree of intensity with which this virus manifests itself in society to be increasingly controlled, and that it does not lead to, for example, an overload of health care. This is also the aim of the whole strategy. This only means that at this stage, with a fairly large group of people who have not yet been vaccinated, you need to intervene in the event of revivals. If it's under control again, there'll be legislative proposals. I do not think Mr Van Houwelingen is in favour of that. They are there to make sure that you re-open society in a way that takes into account the different levels of vaccination. Those were the questions about the package. I think I might be allowed to be brief about communication. I have already told you, and Hugo de Jonge will go into this in such detail, that we are about to give birth to a letter describing exactly the strategy towards January, February and March. One of the tracks in this is the further tightening of the whole communication policy. I said something about this at the press conference on Friday. I can repeat that here now, but I think it would be wiser if we included that in the letter of 14 December, and also the look-through after that. Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about enforcement. Maybe I can say a few things about that. The plan is to send a letter to the Chamber at the latest before the next decision-making time, with a plan of action for compliance, control and enforcement. Of course, it always starts with compliance and control, in that order, but ultimately enforcement is the final piece. This concerns, for example, compliance and control and enforcement of the corona access card, where this would also become mandatory, and it is now mandatory for non-essential retail and non-essential services. The insights we gain from non-essential retailing and non-essential services will be involved in any other areas where, of course, the various legislative proposals will also be subject to the Ctb obligation. In addition, we also apply it within the other domains where the ctb already applies, such as the catering industry. A lot of questions have also been asked about the number of fines that have been issued. I have those numbers with me, so I could mention them, but we can also put them in the next progress letter, given the time. I would like to say one thing about the duty of the mouth cap in the d.o.b. According to RIVM's behavioral study, 96% of the population claims to comply with the obligation to protect public health and 83% of the population supports this measure. So that measure is going very well. You can also see that the necessary fines are now being paid. For example, in the last two weeks, 57 fines have been paid for not wearing a mask in places where this is mandatory. There is also enforcement in the field of catering and other sectors. But again, perhaps it is wise that we take that into account in the letter that is coming, perhaps it is that the progress report on the enforcement possibilities in the ctb.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u229	I think that's a good solution. I'll take a look at Mrs. Van Esch from the Animal Party. Then Mrs De Vries of the VVD and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u230	I actually had a question about the previous point, about the press conference. I took the press conference myself for a while. There a very clear advice was given on domestic travel. I actually missed a very urgent advice on foreign travel and international travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u231	The Minister is going to answer that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u232	That's his pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u233	Doesn't this count as a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u234	Definitely not. This question doesn't count. Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u235	It's fine to come back to it in a letter to be sent somewhere in mid-December. With the Prime Minister, it is now focusing very much on the corona tickets. My question about enforcement is broader. For example, it has been mentioned, but I can imagine that homework is also being thought of. You see parking lots that should be empty because people have to work at home, but they're packed with cars anyway. So the question is wider than that. I also think that we in the House of Representatives should have an insight into the number of fines that are being paid or how many warnings are being issued. Because it stands or falls at the final stage with good enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u236	I get that. This is, of course, difficult for working at home, because this is an urgent opinion. There's no fine on that. An employee may feel ill-treated by the employer. Then there are all kinds of methods to look at it through the inspection. We can now see that the tolerance limits on enforcement are shrinking and that the number of closures is increasing, also because of non-compliance with the co-vid measures. In the last month, 51 penalty charges were lodged and 38 preventive charges were distributed under penalty payment. Mayors always do that after they first had the conversation with the sector. If it still doesn't happen then there will be real action. So you can see in that regard, also in the Security Council and by the way in all 330 mayors, that the tolerance threshold is really falling. I am very pleased about that, because it is simply important that enforcement is, of course, a final step, because it is first and foremost about compliance and control..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u237	Thank you for that. I hope that we will indeed be able to take those steps. Once again, we are not just concerned with entrepreneurs. This must also be tackled if they deliberately break all the rules. But as a result, a question about the budget that was before it. There was 45 million available, including for municipalities. We understand that this budget is running out or running out. How will that be looked at for the future? The instruments must therefore be in place to ensure that enforcement is properly enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u238	I will come back to that in a second term. There's a conversation going on about that. I would ask for official support to note this question from Mrs De Vries. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u239	This question, too, does not count as a question, I say just to be sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u240	The Prime Minister still states that it is intended that everyone is vaccinated, or that they have been infected. But the vaccines do not give sterile and long-term immunity. We also see many breakthrough infections. We see that in Portugal, where almost everyone has been vaccinated, there is also just another revival. Vaccinating alone is not going to help us get out of this crisis. Does the Prime Minister share the view that herd immunity is not feasible at the moment, not by accident or not on purpose, and that with the current state of the vaccines and the current state of the recontamination of herd immunity there is no way out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u241	We are neither epidemiologists nor Hugo the Young nor I. We want to talk to the Chamber once we've overcome this worst crisis. If we have then also been able to make further arrangements with the Chamber about 2G, 3G and where they apply, we should also have a discussion with each other on how to keep things under permanent control. That is part of the whole discussion we want to have with the Chamber. There, too, we must share the latest insights on this issue. Portugal has a vaccination rate above 95%. There too you can see the number of infections, but that can have all kinds of causes. The vaccines may be less effective. There are always people who are not sensitive to the vaccine. And there are people in whom, as one of the speakers has just said, the vaccine cannot be put at all. We will all have to involve this and also what it means for longer-term policies. I agree with Mr Omtzigt. But I don't want to make a harsh statement about her immunity here and at what level that is I'm not an epidemiologist, but that's one of the things we have to look at with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u242	I understand this hesitation in the herd immunity, the herd immunity, because it does not seem to have been achieved in any country of Western Europe, whether vaccinated everywhere or poorly vaccinated. By the way, in Romania, where there is hardly any vaccine, we see a huge peak. So vaccinations help a lot, but we're not reaching that herd immunity. Does the Prime Minister agree that we cannot therefore base a strategy on the possible achievement of herd immunity and that we have only one strategy left, namely to keep the number of infections as low as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u243	No. I'm not gonna make sweeping statements about that right now. We really want a more detailed analysis, including what we can learn from the situation in other parts of Europe about a very high level of vaccination, a high level of booster deployment and what it does in combination with people who have had the disease. Is the virus alive again very much, is it alive a little or is it not alive at all? I'm not gonna play Jaap van Dissel here; I'm really not gonna play Jaap van Dissel. We take all this into account in the strategy, which we are also discussing with the Chamber, on the basis of the letter of 14 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u244	Then I'd like to hear how these boosters have helped in other countries. I've shown you some examples. In Belgium, it has in any case reduced the number of infections among the oldest group. From the UK, I can show similar things. Israel has similar studies in which these boosters show it. I am also very curious when the cabinet recognises this effectiveness and what it will do with it in a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u245	I don't quite understand that question. We're not having a discussion about the effectiveness of booster vaccines, are we? That's what Hugo de Jonge is about to go into.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u246	We're talking about starting it pretty late. I hope that we will get the comparison I just asked for in writing. But let me ask the question differently. Do you know a colleague in Western Europe who has had to scale care as far as the 2D level, as the Netherlands? And where, therefore, almost all non-urgent operations have been abolished and where the heart attack is as severe as in the Netherlands? Do you know one example where that is so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u247	I wouldn't know so soon. I know that the situation in Austria is also very serious. In a number of Eastern European countries, such as Slovakia and the Czech Republic, the situation is also very serious. You can't exactly compare that, because they often have different systems. But it is absolutely true that we have a very large number of infections and that there is a very serious health care situation. I did not just give a written answer to Mr Omtzigt. I have said that Mr De Jonge is so keen on the booster side. I also said that the strategy also includes insights into the effectiveness of vaccination, as well as what that means for the longer term and what that means, based on the WRR and KNAW advice, for the stage in which you are dealing with that virus anyway, but hopefully in a way that is not as disruptive to our society as it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u248	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u249	The prime minister's got an evening lockdown now. It's made up of all kinds of rules. Entrepreneurs have to go back to it, just like people who want to play sports, and you name it. Well, if it's effective, we don't know right, it's in the RIVM's black box, and we just have to believe that those are the best modelers in the world. And then I think: what is this all about all these rules, with all those people who are restricted by tickets and you name it. A recent international survey shows that mouth caps are not as nonsense as Mr Van Dissel has always told us. A comparison of 52 studies shows that mouth caps can reduce the number of infections by 53%, and then it does not even depend on the quality of the mouth caps. Well, then it's a real shame that you rigged up that whole canteen stand while you can do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u250	There's no fight about mouth caps and their effectiveness, is there? We had that fight last year. But I believe that since November last year we have set a common course in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u251	You can explain it, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u252	So what I see is that we don't have to put a mask on this, but up there, in the public gallery, we have to. No one's in there right now, but that's where it has to be. So it's being applied very sporadically. Not here. You don't have to do it here. But it turns out, contrary to what the President of our OMT has always said, that the operation is not so good... Almost 37,000 investigations have been carried out into mouth caps. Comparison of 72 relevant studies shows that the correct application of mouth caps can reduce the number of infections by 53. You always have to use them everywhere. But that's not what the Cabinet chooses. The cabinet chooses to close this, close that, difficulties in schools, gyms closed, corona tickets. You wouldn't have to do all that... you can shake no, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u253	Come on, that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u254	I'm not a scientist, Mr. Chairman, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u255	No, I can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u256	I'm not a scientist, but neither is the Prime Minister. He really shouldn't be smiling, Mr. Chairman! Something as simple as wearing mouth caps turns out to be particularly effective, much more effective than reducing movements in a very artificial way, corona access cards and so on. Because if we can reduce the infections by 53%, we're really under the R.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u257	In September, Mr Wilders proposed abandoning all measures. Everything. That was September. I understand he's not here right now, but that was the point of view at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u258	No. I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u259	I'm just gonna finish my answer anyway. Do you want to hear the answer or not, Mrs. Agema? Maybe you don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u260	No, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I think Mrs Agema is asking: can you not just or almost just do mouth caps, with some other things, but not all kinds of additional measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u261	In between, Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders cannot defend himself now, but let us be clear: last summer the number of infections was very low and the number of positive tests was very low. Then the government wrongly maintained the measures until September and told us that if we were all vaccinated, including young people, it would be ready. So those you-boxes are mean as hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u262	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u263	I can only say that I understand why Mr Wilders is not here. I'll answer Mrs. Agema. We're not having a discussion about mouth caps at all. Those masks are effective, as is apparent from research. We had a discussion about that last year. But the complicated thing about fighting a virus like corona is... Does Mrs. Agema want to hear it or not? She keeps walking back and forth angry. I'm trying to answer... I'm still working on my answer, but you're not listening. Listen, mouth cap have absolutely...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u264	Wait a minute. Mrs Agema has asked a question and the Prime Minister is trying to answer it. Just take a look at the answer. If there's anything else we need, we'll take a closer look. But the Prime Minister is trying to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u265	Exactly. So we don't have a discussion about those masks in our own right. It is absolutely true that last year there was a discussion about this, but somewhere in October, I think, Cabinet and Chamber agreed: we are just going to do it. So there is no discussion at all about the effect of mouth caps. They also make a contribution. But I don't know if the degree...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u266	I feel like you're talking past each other. So I'm giving Mrs. Agema...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u267	Yeah, but I'm gonna finish the answer. Mrs. Agema seems to me to think that if you're just doing masks, there's no need for anything else. But that's bullshit. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u268	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but I'm only allowed to ask six questions. That's why I think every time the Prime Minister comes up with that weird little you-bowl, also to my group chairman: I can only ask a question six times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u269	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u270	No, that's very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u271	That's a waste of time, not just from you, but from several people, I think. So you ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u272	But look, I didn't make this up. I'm not a scientist, but these are scientists. They've placed 36,729 oral caps tests next to each other. They've taken 72 relevant studies out of it. And what does it turn out to be? That wearing a mouth nose mask can reduce the number of infections by 53%, not only in public transport and not only in the public gallery, but everywhere. So the government doesn't. My question was very specific: why don't you do that, so wearing a mouth cap in all the interiors, instead of all the other states, if it turns out to be so effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u273	Again, no discussion about the mouth caps. Mrs. Agema says do it in more places. You can have that discussion. I think that is a very real debate to have. We're doing it now. In many places in the Netherlands the mouth caps are now mandatory again since 12 November, so we do not have any discussion about that in itself. Again, you can talk about the measure. What really isn't true is I think it's even very false that with only mouth caps you would be able to bring down the number of infections, on average 22,000 over the last seven days. That's really not true. Then Mrs. Agema and her party run away from reality. That's what you want to fight this virus, besides the basic rules including the mouth caps, the 1.5 meters, the testing of complaints at the GGD and then stick to the agreements they make with you, but also the ventilation, which Mrs Agema has rightly called attention to earlier... Okay, I think it's done now. Yeah, sorry. If she doesn't hear it, there's no point in talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u274	I want to ask the Prime Minister to really stick to the questions and answers and not...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u275	The question was: do I agree with her?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u276	Yes, but you also mentioned something about Mr Wilders. Then you'll just make it more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u277	I haven't talked about that anymore. That's what I was talking about earlier, and you told me not to, so I won't. Mrs Agema asked me whether it is true that if everyone has mouth caps on everything, I also think that all other measures can be repealed. That's bullshit. Sorry, that's bullshit. There's no country in the world that's gonna be a huge rise... If it were, it would be very nice. So Mrs Agema cannot run away and neither can the PVV because of the need for other measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u278	I'd like to suggest something, because you're not coming out right now. I'd like to ask you to make a copy of what you have in your hand now. Then I ask the Minister of VWS to respond in a targeted way. 'Cause we actually know what you're talking about right now. Let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u279	A final remark. I understand that the Prime Minister here on a scientific study comparing 52 oral mask investigations says that it really is total nonsense, namely that they can reduce the number of infections by 53%. He says that's total bullshit and you name it. I think that he is incredibly inadequate with these scientists who have done this research and compared all these studies with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u280	I didn't say that. I said that you've solved the number of infections of over 20,000 a day on average over the last seven days, an average of 350 hospitalizations a day over the last seven days and more than 50 in intensive care not only with mouth caps everywhere, so by putting on a mouth cap. That's not true. That the mask has an effect and must be part of the package is true. She is now going to show Mr De Jonge that study. If that study is correct, then we can lift all the measures and then we're just going to put on masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u281	The Minister of VWS is going to respond to this in such a targeted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u282	By the way, Mrs. Agema. As a result of a question from D66 I can tell you that Mr De Jonge and I will be wearing that mask from now on, if we leave the elevator and even if we go upstairs without a camera. Strictly speaking, that doesn't have to be there, because it's an inner space. It's not a public inner space, but it's a private ministry. But I think he's absolutely right that it's much better for the appearance if we wear that mask there too. Well, that's understood. So me and you, too. Then there was another question about the new governance culture. Maybe I should just say in that context that it is important that we treat the various legislative proposals vigorously. Unfortunately, that is also the situation that the virus is forcing us to do at the moment. I really do not believe that we are lagging behind the Chamber. We're still trying to share all the information we have with the Chamber. We have now had more than 40 debates on this, and rightly so. The Minister of VWS is also present in the Lower House tens of hours a week to explain the policy. The OMT doesn't just advise us. They do that unsolicited when they think it's necessary. That's what was asked. That happened at the beginning of the pandemic in January last year. Then the OMT met for the first time on its own initiative in response to signals from the WHO for its first opinion. The fact that the chairman of the OMT, who is also the director of the RIVM Centre on Infection Disease Control, also participates in the consultation of the cabinet, does not in any way affect the independence of the OMT. We must base ourselves on science. This means that we should also be able to talk to those scientists about what advice has been issued and whether we can understand it with each other. Then we can take the sensible decisions on that basis. I can say the following about the behavioral unit at the RIVM. I don't think it determines who is or isn't present at the Cats House. The question is whether the input of all relevant parties can be adequately addressed there. As regards the importance of the contribution of the behavioral unit, there can be no doubt about this; you can also see this regularly in the advice of the OMT. Following the Segers motion, which was adopted in May last year, we are always reviewing the policy in full with all the experts. Mr. Chairman. Then about the unrest in the churches. The Minister for Justice and Security, who, of course, is also the minister of honour, often speaks to religious organisations. Last Friday he spoke with representatives about the measures. He made the urgent appeal not to organise physical meetings after 5 p.m. In the coming week, the Minister will be speaking with a number of parties who would like to discuss this further. I saw hopeful signals on this matter today, I thought from the Dutch Bishops' Conference. I hope other churches follow that example. Then there is the appointment of the new minister of medical care. We've redistributed the portfolios. Corona-related issues, including medical care, have been taken over by the Minister of VWS in connection with interlinkages. Especially the Secretary of State of VWS has been given a whole bunch of work. Among other things, it concerns all the sports subjects and the youth care he takes over from the minister of VWS. In the current crisis, and during the missionary phase of the cabinet, I think that is also the most efficient portfolio distribution. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Minister Tamara van Ark announced before the summer of this year that a committee would be set up to deal with the issue of dealing with the terrible numbers of sick and deceased. Unfortunately, this has not yet been done by the circumstances, namely the revival of the pandemic. The Secretary of State for VWS, Paul Blokhuis, has taken over this task. In the short term, a committee will be set up to discuss coronaleed. This will be made up of representatives from different sections of society. It is then up to the committee itself to determine the form and the moment. At the moment we are thinking of doing so in spring 2022. Of course, there have been and planned numerous moments at local level at this time. There was a big memorial meeting in October of the first year, last October. Those were the questions that were asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u283	There are a few follow-up questions. Mrs. Van Esch was there a little earlier. Is that okay, Mrs. Chicken? Then Mrs. Kuik and then Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u284	I would like to comment on the answer to the question about the RIVM's behavior unit and when it will and will not be involved in the policy. I heard the outgoing Prime Minister say they're reviewing the policy. That's what my specific question was about. But in my opinion, as a Chamber, we have just said that we want them to be involved in making and advising on that policy. A member of that behavioral unit says: no, we reflect on the policy; we do not make those advices. My particular concern is at that point. How come we in the Chamber have been saying for almost two years that those behavioral scientists should be involved in the advice, and that we still only see those behavioral scientists in reflections and in those tests? In my view, at least as far as we are concerned, that was not the task of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u285	They provide their input in all possible ways, including through the NKC. I just thought the question was very specific: why don't you invite them to the Cat House? But the Catshuis meeting is not meant to be a gathering of experts. It is a place where you try to weigh together in a slightly reflective setting decisions that still have to be made, of course with a few people who are crucial to that. The other day, for example, we had Ernst Kuipers, because of the situation in the hospitals. The Director of the Centre for Infectious Disease Control, as well as OMT Chairman, is usually present. But there can be no doubt about the advice of the behavioral unit and its importance. You will also see this regularly in the opinions of the OMT. This also shows that they not only reflect, but also provide input for the policies we conduct. I agree with the speaker, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u286	I'm glad we're on the same page. Still, I'm left with the same question. I hear the outgoing Prime Minister saying here that the people who are invited to the Catshuis are important people who make the policy with each other. We note here with each other that we see in part that the behaviour in society is not the way we would like it to be with each other. There are behavioral scientists who give very important advice on this. I would like to add that I do not understand why at least someone from the RIVM behavior unit cannot be invited to this kind of consultation every now and then, just like Mr Kuipers, because they can give such essential advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u287	It's possible. I don't think that's a crazy idea at all, actually. Yeah, we're gonna chew on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u288	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u289	It is not, therefore, that those opinions are not input at this time. It already is. You're actually asking, "Why don't you ever have them?" Yeah, interesting. That's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u290	A question is being asked about not replacing former Minister Van Ark and we are getting a lecture on why the cabinet has decided to do so. I assume that the Prime Minister understands the underlying idea of this question, namely that the Chamber finds that a number of things are not going well right now, that mistakes are being made: the booster campaign is not going as it should be, that tunnel vision is being created and that we do not have a longer-term approach two years after the start of the crisis. Does the Prime Minister understand that this is the underlying reason for the question put to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u291	No. No, because that's just not true. The VWS Minister will look into the booster campaign, how we got to that decision-making and how things are going. It is not that because there is no new Minister for Medical Care things would or would not go well. The same applies to the other elements. No. To be honest, I think it is quite a sweeping statement that Mrs Kuik shows here about the situation. I don't agree with that either. I should start analysing them all individually, but then I do not fulfil the President's mandate to keep it somewhat limited. This is partly reflected in the speech of the VWS Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u292	I understand that's an intrusive question. I also asked the intrusive question: is it not already a little code black or maybe completely code black for people who are now waiting for a delayed cancer operation, people who are suffering enormous pains and cannot be helped now or people who are unemployed at home for that reason, et cetera, et cetera? The examples are well mentioned. I also asked the Prime Minister whether he or the Cabinet recognizes that due to mistakes they have made by acting late or not decisively enough, these people are unnecessarily long in this uncertainty or difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u293	There have been absolutely mistakes. I said something about this in the press conference last Friday and so did Mr De Jonge, but I do not think what Mrs Kuik is saying is right. I really do. We have not hesitated to make the necessary decisions at all times when all the signal values forced us to do so. What you simply have to establish is that the rate of increase in the number of infections and the effects it has on ic-beds and hospital beds are much worse than we hoped and thought on the basis of all the information we had at the time. But whenever signal values were broken, we have made the necessary decisions. I am also very unhappy with what it means, Mrs Kuiken, when the situation in hospitals is so acute that certain operations and certain treatments cannot continue. We all know examples, me in my environment too. Everyone knows these examples. We also read them back in the media. That's simply terrible. But the direct link between not replacing a minister who unfortunately had to stop and that situation is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u294	No, I made the link with that the cabinet, in my opinion, has acted too late and insufficiently decisively. I think it still does that by betting on just sitting on that R-value of 1, so the risk is still unacceptable. My first question was therefore specific: how long does the cabinet consider such a situation acceptable to these people, who are waiting for a necessary operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u295	It is not acceptable at all, but it is unfortunately, again, the situation at the moment. By the way, we don't only see it in the Netherlands. We see it in more countries, but unfortunately here too, that operations need to be scaled down. But there's a reproach in Mrs. Kuik's question. I am always willing to take any lessons and make any excuses, but I do not agree with that accusation. That reproach is that the cabinet would have acted too slow and not intrusive enough. When we saw, on the basis of the agreements made with the Cabinet with the Chamber, that certain signal values were broken, for example 25 people in intensive care and 100 people in hospitals, we have always taken all the steps we agreed with each other that we would take them. What is not going well then is that you simply have to observe that the rate at which the number of infections increases is much higher than we thought and hoped at the time. But it is not the case that in September or November, when we should have taken decisions, we did not take them. I simply disagree. However, I agree with Mrs Kuik that it is, of course, terrible for the people in the hospitals and the people who need to make use of the care that that care cannot be delivered at the moment. That is why it is necessary to reduce the number of infections again. Hugo de Jonge will discuss the booster campaign. He will outline exactly how the decision-making process has taken place and how important it is now to speed it up further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u296	I noted earlier than the cabinet itself wanted us to take further measures. In doing so, I note that the cabinet has acted too little and too late. I also note that there were people who said in August: start your booster campaign. Countries around us have done so. Mr Van Dissel confirmed today that there are now unnecessarily more people on the ice because we started too late. Then I can ask the cabinet whether it has dropped a stab there and whether it feels partly responsible for what is happening? That's not just because of the whimsy of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u297	I can show you the whole timeline here about the boosters. The final opinion of the Health Council, which we must do, reached us on 2 November. Immediately thereafter, all the measures were taken to help boosters start up. I am not saying that things are going well now, and I am also concerned that this is just beginning, but that is not because the cabinet has been snoring. So again, I don't think I'm known here for not admitting mistakes. Earlier, it was accusation in the media that I would do that too easily. But I don't think it's right here; I really don't think it's right. I can't believe the situation in the hospitals. We are dealing with a pandemic with a high degree of unpredictability, for example, about how quickly the 1.8 million unfortunately gets sick and into hospitals, which creates this pressure on care and requires additional measures. Mrs. Kuik is right that she warned you earlier: should you stop doing so? At that time, we based ourselves on all the advice from the Outbreak Management Team and the analysts. We've taken it over and over. And if we didn't take over something, we replaced it with another measure. On balance, we have always done what the OMT advised us to do in terms of weight. So I am not at all satisfied with where we are now, on the contrary, but on this point I do not agree with the accusation that we did not take the necessary decisions when it was necessary. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u298	I have to finish, Mr. Chairman. I note that the Prime Minister did indeed apologize at the press conference, but only because he did not sufficiently convince people of the need to take a vaccine. I have never heard the Prime Minister apologize for too little test capacity, too late boosters, too few decisive measures, always going for a minimal variant instead of applying the principle of care. I also find it a little too easy to always refer to which ruler he happens to have left or right, because the members of the cabinet are doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u299	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u300	When I ask the Prime Minister a question, I also expect him to be open and honest in reflecting on such matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u301	Fine! Then I will answer the question about boosters, because I really disagree with that. On 17 June, the OMT and the Health Council indicated that a booster vaccination was not on the agenda and that this issue might not start to play until next spring, in 2022. On 13 August, RIVM was asked to draw up an implementation plan in anticipation of a possible positive opinion from the Health Council. They got that on September 6th. Several scenarios were developed. That happened on 14 September. The Health Council again delivered its opinion on 14 September, stressing that vaccines in the Netherlands were still very well protected against hospitalisations and serious diseases. The Health Council also stressed that at that time covid-related hospitalisations consisted mainly of unvaccinated people and that any booster vaccination would have no or little effect on them. The Health Council also reiterated the WHO's call for a global shortage of vaccines; the available vaccines were needed to increase the primary vaccination rate worldwide. Eventually increasing the vaccination rate is also the most effective way to fight the pandemic, said the Health Council. They then said on 14 September: go ahead and anticipate a possible booster. We did. I just described that. When the very first signs of a possible very small reduction in effectiveness against serious illness and hospitalisation came in, a further opinion was requested from the Health Council. That was done on 15 October and that advice came on 2 November. Then it was said: you must start with a booster for the oldest age groups and residents of institutions to prevent a further increase and serious illness. It was then decided from the precautionary principle to start a booster vaccination for 60-plussers and people in a healthcare facility quickly. I have here with me the whole discussion we had in the Chamber about this. For example, I have here the questions of a Member of Parliament of 17 September about the WHO's call for no booster vaccines, and the Health Council's conclusion to do so only for a small group. I have the motion that has just been tabled and has not been adopted on not to operate booster vaccines until the global vaccination availability has improved. So we also had this discussion with the Chamber and with each other. I also hate that you see now that a lot of other countries are far beyond that, but we have to go to science. We couldn't, when there wasn't any Health Council advice yet, and that wasn't until 2 November. We couldn't say: we're going to place boosters, even if there isn't any Health Council advice yet. That is simply not in line with how we fight this pandemic with each other, as a Chamber and a Cabinet. It would have been incorrect if Hugo de Jonge had said so at that time as Minister of VWS, or the Cabinet. You wouldn't have thought that was acceptable either, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u302	Thank you. The last interruption for Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u303	What the Prime Minister does all the time when he gets a difficult question is focus on one thing and get all stuck in it, and then the rest is gone. The boosters were one example. We're in the back, except for Bulgaria, if I get it right. Then it's too easy to point to the experts again and not take your own responsibility. Let me just say one more thing. I'm not mad at the Prime Minister. I'm not mad at Minister De Jonge either. But I do give them more air, a new vision and a new crisis structure, because I really think we need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u304	As far as the air is concerned, she's definitely right. But it is also right with regard to the structure in which we take decisions. That is one of the tracks that Hugo de Jonge will be addressing in such a way, and on which we would also like to discuss with the Chamber and with experts in the coming weeks, namely how we are going to do that. So I agree. The answer I just gave was about boostering. I could give a very detailed comparable answer to the question of whether we took measures in time when we saw that the number of infections was increasing. That does not alter the fact that at the moment we are simply dealing with a situation where there are far too many people in hospitals and far too many people are infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u305	I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u306	Oh, excuse me. Mrs. Van der Plas was earlier. That's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u307	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u308	I want to continue at the same point as Mrs. Chicken, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u309	I'm sorry for the confusion. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u310	I usually look around and see if there are any other people standing up for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u311	No, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u312	Also I, Mr Paternotte, crochet at the point that Mrs Chicken made. We also have something else to do, apart from the whole list that Mrs Kuik mentioned, that the concern is simply not in order. The security services warned in 2016 that the ic's were not in order for a pandemic and the cabinet did nothing with it. That's part of the game. The pressure on care is also so high because there are simply not enough hands on the bed. That's what's going on. What also plays is the enormous division that has arisen in society. Last summer, the Minister of Health denied that very harshly. I can show you the tweets later. There was no division at all; that was not true at all. Well, there is that split. We just warned you about that. Society's split. Clubs have fallen apart. It's been seen for months. That's facilitated and rushed by this cabinet. The Prime Minister could also take responsibility for this. I read in the media last weekend that the Prime Minister had said somewhere: I am not going to point the finger at the unvaccinated. I was happy about that. I thought, "Well, then we're a step further."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u313	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u314	Yeah, sorry. That is, of course, done by the Minister for Health. It's gonna take years. I'm gonna come to my question, hear, before that division in society is restored. I would like to ask the Prime Minister that I have more or less done so in my speech, whether he is prepared to show leadership and address the Netherlands, if necessary simply in a speech, to ensure that we are going to get back together again, that we are going to trust each other again and that mistakes are also admitted? I'm not even so concerned about the latter, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u315	I think your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u316	Then the Netherlands simply knows: we have a prime minister; he leads our country, and we don't always have to agree with him, but at least now he shows himself to be a leader. Will the Prime Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u317	I do not know whether Mrs Van der Plas and I fully agree on what is now expected of a leader. Mrs van der Plas says that it is now leadership, so I understand her argument, in no way to call attention to or even in any way to the fact that 15% of the Netherlands has not been vaccinated. At the moment there are a lot of people who are seeing surgeries being postponed and who are very concerned or who may still be scheduled to continue because 70% of the people who are in intensive care with corona have not been vaccinated and 50% of the people who are in an ordinary hospital bed have not been vaccinated. Then I have no choice but to draw attention to that 15% and say to that 15%: freedom is also a matter of responsibility. In our society, freedom and responsibility are always linked. You can't live your life completely the way you want it to be without taking anyone else into account. I am extremely concerned about that. Then the question is how to get that part of the 15% that is willing to be vaccinated, and fortunately some of it is still willing to do so. With Hugo de Jonge, I don't think there's any point in putting the whole 15% group on the same page. Yeah, we live in a free country, and eventually people get to make their own decisions. But that also includes having serious conversations with each other, for example about 2G. That is inevitable. That is part of that freedom and responsibility. I'd make a speech like that, Mrs. Van der Plas. I am Prime Minister of 100% of these people, including those 15%, but I am addressing that 15% in that TV speech or their responsibility in addition to their freedom. That's my definition of leadership. I don't know if Mrs Van der Plas would be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u318	Excuse me? Why? What kind of weird addition is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u319	That's my question. If you're happy about it, I'm gonna make that speech like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u320	No, I'm not. No, no. The Prime Minister states that he does not think that Mrs Van der Plas would be pleased...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u321	Because you're asking for a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u322	The Prime Minister can't look into my head. He doesn't know what I'm thinking. He probably listened selectively when I mentioned a number of times in a debate that I am not at all against vaccination, that I also recognise the problems and that I am also very concerned. But it's not either-or. It's not either you're talking about the divide in society or you're talking about the vaccinees. I ask the Prime Minister about the signals that I and many other Members of Parliament are getting. I'm just getting a lot of e-mails these days, they're hundreds a day of people who just don't know it anymore, and also people who aren't vaccinated, but who are scared, just afraid of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u323	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u324	Those aren't anti-vaxers, they're people who are scared and want information about what it does to them. That's what I mean by leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u325	Thank you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u326	I'm sorry, I just want to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u327	But ask yourself a question, as your colleagues are really trying to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u328	Yes, but the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u329	No, but I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u330	No. I call Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u331	The Prime Minister has given a long answer, and it deserves a somewhat longer answer. My question concerns the following. The number of suicides is increasing and I do not want to say that this is precisely because of policy, but there is just a lot going on in society. In every crisis in every country, a leader, in this case the Prime Minister, should stand up for everyone, and indeed for those people who are in the hospital, also for the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u332	And your question to the Prime Minister is how to get more connection and solidarity. I think that's your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u333	Yes. And try to get the country back together. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u334	We are very much in agreement, and perhaps more than I thought on the basis of a previous interruption and on the basis of what I heard her say earlier in debates. I may have interpreted that differently. We are the ministers and Prime Minister of 100% of the Dutch, even if they did not vote for us. That's what it feels like. That's absolutely true. If Mrs Van der Plas says that in the group that has not been vaccinated there is also a group that is anxious, worried and has questions, then we have everything to do to answer those questions, to take away those concerns and to see how you can deal with them. Because it is crucial that as many of those people as possible are vaccinated. If there is still a group that does not do so, then it is in itself the freedom of those people, but then it is also the freedom of politics to say that, if we have immediately reduced the number of infections, we can only take measures and, especially in sectors that are non-essential, restrict access to people who have been vaccinated or have experienced the disease. That's part of it. It's a matter of freedom and responsibility. Some of the people who have not been vaccinated will also be terribly angry about that. But I can't be a leader and pilot with the hope that I'm gonna make 100% of the people happy. So that's not gonna work either. So we come to an end with the text of such a fictional speech which we are actually already writing here, but I still do not know whether we are in complete agreement on the final part. For it is inevitable that society afterwards says to the people who have not been vaccinated and who have no diseases that would have prevented them from having a vaccine: yes, that is your freedom, but that is also responsibility. At the moment there are a lot of unvaccinated people in hospitals, which means that a lot of operations have to be cancelled from vaccinated or unvaccinated people who have to go to that hospital for something quite different than corona. That's terrible! That is terrible and I must be able to draw attention to it. I always try to do it as nuanced as possible. I think that's leadership. Not black and white, but nuanced. That's how I'm gonna be in my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u335	Sure. We're definitely getting somewhere. Look, I agree with the Prime Minister that you need to remind people that there is not only freedom but also responsibility. I would have liked to hear that message when the coronapas was introduced, because it was actually sold as a freedom pass: go to the pub; you can do it because you have a green tick! It wasn't introduced as a responsibility pass. Anyway, we can be here long and short about that. If all facets are covered and people are given confidence, I am sure that it is not too late for them to be driven through this crisis... Of course you can criticize. And people are always angry. Let them be angry. But I think there are many more people who get a bit of hope and confidence when the Prime Minister does, and indeed as Prime Minister of all 17 million Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u336	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u337	Well, then we'll make an appointment to write a text.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u338	I think we're close to getting it, but I don't know which channel's gonna broadcast it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u339	I call Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u340	I don't think the Prime Minister can say with dry eyes that it went well with that booster campaign. Today, as an 18-year-old in Paris, Brussels or Vienna, you can walk in and get a booster shot, and we opened that booster shot to people born in 1940. We're stiff at the bottom. In a nutshell, the Prime Minister said that the Health Council said in September: anticipate the booster campaign. On 4 October, the European Medicines Agency said that boosters were designated. So how is it that when our Health Council finally reached the same conclusion as all the other health councils on 2 November, we did not start on 3 November? How can it be said that we will not start until Saint Nicholas is out of the country? Well, at least something went wrong in the preparation, right? I think that the Prime Minister can acknowledge that, and that this calls for some reflection from our own Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u341	The latter, too, I think. Sure. Also from the cabinet, always. I therefore agree with Mr Paternotte. I also hate that we're dangling in the back. At the same time, I would say that it is not possible for the Chamber to have not accepted this if we had decided to set up boosters without the Health Council's advice. That's just contrary to the whole approach to the pandemic. We sail on science. If such advice is forthcoming, it is not, of course, the case that tens of thousands of people are waiting for such advice to come. So a lot is prepared, but building up, also of capacity, is not arranged on day 2 or day 3 after. It's as simple as that. We are now working with man and power to give as much booster as possible as quickly as possible and ultimately to be able to say x at a time: people get their booster within a month after the six months if they want to. Hugo de Jonge will discuss the planning in a moment. That's what he and the entire ministry and everyone, including the Defense Department and all the care, are working terribly hard on. So, yeah, of course I hate that we're dangling in the back. I'm just saying that I don't think the Chamber would have agreed if we hadn't told you in October that we were going to booster. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u342	Just a little fact. In the UK, 48 hours after the Health Council recommendation, massive boosters were started and a few hundred thousand people a day boostered. So in other countries things are going a lot faster than here. There's not gonna be a week waiting. But I had a question about the Minister of Medical Care. Since the cabinet was decommissioned, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been replaced twice. The Foreign Trade Minister was replaced once. The Minister of Economic Affairs has been replaced twice. The Secretary of Defense was replaced once. The Minister of Infrastructure and Water State has found a position elsewhere and has been replaced. The only person who hasn't been replaced is the Minister of Medical Care. Where code is threatening black in hospitals, where we hoped there would be 1,700 ic-beds because that was the goal last May, there is one office in The Hague where cobwebs are sitting, where just dust is collected, because we do not appoint a new minister there. Isn't this Prime Minister willing, too, to get some air on his own, but also to ensure that those hospitals can be helped, so that we have hands-on, just to appoint a new Minister of Medical Care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u343	No. Nor is it the case that, by not naming a minister, we show that we do not think something is important. I have just described that, because the Corona approach is so closely linked to the whole issue of hospitals and ic-care, we have chosen to invest it with the Minister of VWS. The Secretary of State of VWS has been assigned a whole series of tasks, so that he has picked up a lot more outside of the corona care, for example in the field of youth care, sport, you name it. It's very much appreciated that he's getting that. We believe that this is a more sensible approach than appointing a new minister. It's gonna have to be worked in. When, unfortunately, Tamara van Ark had to decide to stop for medical reasons, we said: then it is really wiser to continue those portfolios in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u344	Mr. Omtzigt. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u345	Well, I only have a few interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u346	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u347	I don't think we're entirely in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u348	The Prime Minister has come to the end of his contribution, for which I am grateful. We're just gonna clean up real quick. I'm suspending for a single moment. Then we can stretch our legs for a little while. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u349	I am reopening the sitting for the continuation of the debate on the developments surrounding the coronavirus. I would very much like to give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the questions that have been asked about education. The cabinet is very pleased that, despite the need to implement a number of aggravating measures in addition to the previous package of a few weeks ago, the schools could remain open and that the OMT considered it justified. I'm tasting the same feelings in the Chamber. You have read the reasons for this in the 131st OMT opinion. I think Professor Van Dissel repeated that today at the technical briefing. We welcome this, especially for the students, because we know how much impact the two times there has been a lockdown and a large part of the students were unable to go to school and received distance education. This has had an impact on learning development and learning delays have occurred. It's also done a lot mentally with them. Keeping the schools open, so the possibility of continuing to go to school, does require a lot of teaching staff. On behalf of the cabinet, the Prime Minister, in the press conference on Friday, expressed their appreciation for the work they are doing. We know that during the long period that this pandemic has been going on, they have made enormous efforts and we are still asking a great many of them. Also from me here at this moment many words of appreciation. In particular, Mrs De Vries asked if we would like to communicate clearly when schools are allowed to send pupils home, but sometimes close for a while. This happens at a single school, and unfortunately this also happened last week. The last week was in the p.o. 42 schools where there has been a temporary distance education due to the number of contaminations and breakdowns of teachers. There were three of them, and five of them were in special education and secondary special education. Sometimes it's a few days, but it happens. That's customization. It's not a generic closure, but it's in a single place. There are two reasons for this and they are in force throughout the pandemic. One. If the GGD gives a clue, an urgent advice, that will also be followed. Two. Due to the failure of teachers they may be ill or they may have to be quarantined and due to the shortage of staff in education, especially in certain schools, organisability can no longer be achieved in a good and safe way. This may be a reason why the school is temporarily closed, or at least that the pupils do not come to school and distance education is given. These reasons have been included in the protocols and are being further developed. In short, they are known in education. If they are not known, it is good to say this very clearly once here. Mr. Chairman. The protocols are being applied more widely. This includes all the precautions, protection measures and hygiene measures required from schools. Fortunately, we were able to make the decision that schools could remain open. However, we have proposed a supplement, and this is being recommended to the schools, and we are still working on it in order to take a number of further protective measures. These are measures that have already been applied in previous instances, for example, the previous situations in which the virus lived and the need to take additional protection measures. They could be scaled again later. Now a few have returned. In particular, the cohorting has been a very important factor in this, so try to keep children in their own group in some other words and also with spread breaks make sure that there is not too much contact with other groups. The walking routes back in the school, keeping outsiders out of the door again and parents' evenings, study evenings and the like now do not do or do digitally. All measures which are complementary to the measures we already had and which have now been communicated and applied towards schools. The basic measures are, of course, the most important. Mr Van der Staaij asked: but can schools not deal with this themselves? Yeah, that's what schools do. There are already schools that saw in the new supplementary package a number of things that they already applied. I happen to see a description of a school in Oene, where people have been working with cohorting and such in recent weeks. It is of course very sensible, especially in those situations where you have had or would like to avoid multiple infections in your own environment or in your own school, to apply those measures yourself, if you consider it necessary and if that space is there, it is professionals who are already working there. But we have now given them much tighter, additional to earlier packages of measures, to the schools. They have been incorporated into the protocols and directives and are now being applied much more widely. That is necessary, because although schools are not now affected by closure, we may also ask them to contribute in this way to further reducing the spread of the virus. These things can be very helpful. For primary education there were two things really new. We have never prescribed the masks before in primary education, primary schools, special primary education and special education. They are called "primary education." We have considered it wise to recommend urgent advice at least for groups 6, 7 and 8 masks. That's one. The second is that we have taken the advice of the OMT to apply the self-tests in education. And not just for the vo, where it was already the case for the students. For the teachers we already did it, both in primary and secondary education. We have chosen to do it at least in groups 6, 7 and 8. Then we're talking about about 600,000 students. We offer them a test like this twice a week. They'll be delivered, and they'll get it for no reason. So 1.2 million extra tests for primary education when it comes to self-testing. I understand the question that came out of the Chamber: when we read the OMT opinion, we actually see that it was perhaps meant for the whole of primary education. Indeed, but if you read the OMT recommendation correctly, all the other additional measures I have just mentioned have not been advised by the OMT. It has been a choice of ours to use these tests very specifically in the age group in which the contamination rates were highest. It is not surprising that these figures have risen in recent weeks in education, especially primary education, because they are the unvaccinated in our society where the virus has its effect. We see that happening everywhere. This has led to a significant increase in the number of children tested positive. That's the choice we made. We've been working really hard these past few days. It is logistics a huge operation to ensure that these tests go to the schools as soon as possible. You read in the letter sent by the VWS Minister on my behalf that we thought it would take some time. We did it faster than we thought, thanks to VWS, which helped us order and made sure that we have those tests in these large quantities. Maybe it wasn't entirely by the book. We're gonna have to say that. I'm sure there'll be another letter about it. They also apply to secondary education to all pupils. Then we talk about 1 million students, times 2 is 2 million. Those are huge numbers we need. But we've got it in the docks now. From Monday they will be delivered to the front door. Externals have to stay out of the door, but they are delivered neatly. We deliver them for two weeks. Then the schools will have the tests for all students for two weeks. Even before the Christmas holidays start, we will return with a delivery, so that they will have enough in the new year for a few weeks. They will also be delivered automatically. They don't have to do anything for that. Through DUO we know the numbers and we will ensure that the tests are delivered to them. As of Monday and in the course of next week all schools receive these orders, which they did not order but received.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u351	In my input, I didn't have time to ask this question, so I may have robbed the minister. Perhaps the answer was in a letter about education somewhere, but we were offered a petition outside the Chamber a few weeks ago from a group that had a lollipop as a test. It has been widely used in Germany and was particularly suitable for young children. A lollipop can even give you to a toddler. Maybe they're not as effective as the other self-tests, but in this category everything we can find is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u352	I know that there are many ways of looking at the application of low-threshold tests. A cotton swab in the nose doesn't like adults, but neither do children. A study by the Youth Journal this week showed that they find it very annoying, just like the mouth cover. But they do. In the end, validation of such other types of tests should really be carried out through medical experts. We are now using tests that we know have the effect we're aiming for. That's what the orders are for. This is without prejudice to our maximum efforts to deliver what can be applied. Perhaps the VWS Minister has the most recent knowledge of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u353	Thank you. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and then Mr Paternotte. If you don't, it's gonna go wrong again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u354	In the same order as before, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u355	We've been running past D66 a lot these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u356	Oh, oh,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u357	Where?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u358	That's a face-up, isn't it? I heard the minister say the self-tests for elementary school are out of the question. So they're free. Is that true for now, during this mini lockdown, or is that true during the entire corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u359	In recent months, we have already made tests available to students in secondary education. That's what it was for. It also applied to the teachers in both the p.o. if it's vo. Those tests aren't delivered. We have made very clear agreements for this. They get a certain amount. I think teachers are getting packs with 25 tests that they can get ahead of for a while. We have done so in recent times. So in the vo we had all that experience and now it is the total group of students who are given tests. Only students who have just had corona will be excluded for a while. I thought there was an eight-week period, but then they come back into the picture to use the tests. By the way, the schools have received all the information today. There are also hand-outs and example letters for parents, in several languages. In this way, we promote the use of the tests in a variety of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u360	The minister just said that the OMT advice has deviated because it mainly goes around among some older elementary school students. I myself am the father of a kindergarten and among fellow-fathers of kindergarten I hear that there have been quite a lot of toddlers lately who bring the virus home cheerfully. That's where it goes pretty hard too. In that sense, I do not quite understand that move. I also got another question from a teacher. He said: the use of mouth caps is nice, but that only applies in the hallway. In other countries, they do it in class. Will Corona stay in the hallway in the Netherlands? Isn't it coming into class? I see the Minister of VWS nodding, so I do. It stays in the hallway. That's good news in itself. What's that based on? Is there any basis for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u361	In secondary education, the masks were gone for a while, but they are now back. They were already there. Also on the basis of the advice we received from the OMT at the time, we applied it when people are moving. Then one gets closer to one another. For example, school buildings where the corridors are not so wide, stairwells and all places where one can meet. It's very wise to try to keep your distance anyway, but that's a bit tricky when you go from one room to another, or whatever. You'd have to wear the masks. At the moment one sits on the chair, the mouth cap may be removed. Thinking about how things go in a lesson, that's a more fine way of receiving lessons and then giving up when one has to wear a mouth cap. By the way, I can see that it is done in most places abroad in this way: a mask when one moves, but if one sits it may be removed, although there are also countries where the mask is sometimes held. We didn't choose to do that. The advice we have received is not to do it that way either. Perhaps just a brief word about the tests when it comes to the younger students. The additional measures we have taken include measures that affect the youngest. This is particularly true of the snotty directive, as it has been called. I don't know who ever made that up. Hugo the Young, I hear. That is quite a sturdy one, in the sense that it ensures that at the time when there is a snotty or light complaint there is often a snotty one that is really advised not to take the child to school or to child care. Then there's a test to be done. By the way, this has put some pressure directly on the GGD, but we think it is very important for each other to avoid spreading in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u362	Also with the snot bells you see again that the OMT did not recommend that at all. That's right. That's putting a lot of pressure on you. 'Cause how many kids have snot bells? They all have to be tested when we have enormous scarcity there. In this respect, I find it difficult to follow that the cabinet remains very close to the OMT opinion, but still deviates from it in many respects when it comes to education. Look at the practice. As far as Christmas holidays are concerned, it is not possible for us to let the schools know about this until 14 December and do exactly the same thing as last year, which is last minute saying that the schools should close. The advice is there. You can do it or you can't do it, but at least you have to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u363	I'll be right back on Christmas break. I think this is really very sensible. From the point of view of education itself, think also of teachers and educational support staff, we are very pleased with the additional measures we have taken, apart from the fact that the self-tests now apply to a number of pupils. Again, the numbers of infections are highest there, especially among the 10-year-olds and 11-year-olds. You can see a peak there for the second week in a row when it comes to the number of infections. So these are very important measures in our view. The OMT and RIVM have also taken note of the package that we have finally proposed. That was part of the billing and the whole modeling. We know from the results that we are going to make that turn if this is fully applied. The basic measures are also very strict. We will then find ourselves in a better situation than we have unfortunately been in in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u364	It is good that the Minister says that there is a lot of work going on in the education sector. I do think that there is a great deal of responsibility there. I am very happy that they can remain open, but we are naturally asking for something extra from other sectors, such as culture and the catering industry. It is a little too easy for me, then, for the Minister to say: I am saying here for a moment that there is the possibility of closing for one or two days if there are large contamination sites. I do expect the Minister to play a somewhat more active role and communication on this issue. Should it be necessary, in a manner of speaking, to close for a week to remove contamination fireplaces, it will take a while. I would like the Minister to play a more active role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u365	This is this whole pandemic already completely the rule. There are two reasons why a school sometimes needs to close temporarily and provide distance education, or that classes have to go home. The latter can also be done. It is fully the GGD that gives an opinion on this. Secondly, there is the organizational aspect. That's been the line every time. Of course, at the time the infections increase again, the urgency of having good on the retina increases for these two reasons. It's in all the protocols. This is also communicated in all kinds of ways. That is also how it is applied in practice. What you say about the catering industry and the culture, and there we can also add the sport, indeed, has been the choice that has been made. There had to be a certain reduction in the spread of the virus. The cabinet has given it real priority, which I believe has always been supported by the Chamber, very intrusive also to safeguard education if it is at all possible and justified, from measures, for the reasons I have just mentioned. The latter is, of course, very important to underline. And luckily, so could this time. That remains our commitment. That might also be a nice little bridge to the bonus advice of the OMT, as I think the Prime Minister called it. In my opinion, the very last rule of the 131st OMT recommendation to consider extending the Christmas holiday forward is exactly what it says. I would like to say to Mrs De Vries that if that were to happen, there would be no question of it going away from the summer holidays. That is not what the OMT is asking of us, but that is not what has been discussed in any way in the cabinet's considerations. But the OMT has indeed submitted this to us. That consideration has also taken place. We have said everything: no, we are not going to do that. A very important reason is that this measure would not have any effect on the package that was now needed, as it would have to do its job in the short term one or two weeks. If we were to advance the Christmas holiday, which is falling very late this year, for a week, it would only start in three weeks, starting from last week, when we were in favour of this decision. For these first weeks it was only a plan. And with intentions, you can't reduce the virus and its spread. So we didn't choose that. Is this measure completely out of the question? You can't really say that. But the starting point of the cabinet is still really at the top, as I just pointed out. Priority. If we can keep the education open, we will. The same goes for the next few weeks. If the measure is to be seen, it will only be possible if the infections are again very high and additional measures are needed. You have probably also heard Mr Van Dissel in the technical briefing today. He said he didn't think it was very appropriate. I don't know what his exact words were anymore, but I did get a report back on that. But we'll have to wait and see. If this is the case, we will, of course, try to communicate it as soon as possible. December 14th is an official moment for this. We have sometimes made an exception for education, but once again that is something we do not want at all. We're so anxious to keep the schools open. The same goes for the next few weeks. But we can't rule anything out altogether. Then questions have been asked about an issue that keeps returning to this whole pandemic, namely ventilation. As the Chamber is aware, education is, in my view, the only sector where we have taken very specific additional measures has also carried out very specific research into how it stands in practice and for which we have also made money available. The money that we have made available for this is additional to the funds that both schools and municipalities already receive for facilities and these. In 2015, for example, there was a lot of decentralisation in the schools and money from the Municipal Fund to the lumpsum, so went to the schools, both primary and secondary education. The municipality also has a certain task, even though they can also decentralize it to the schools. We have also made additional funds available for this. These amounts and the way in which we would make them available have all been submitted to your Chamber. This was finally approved by the Chamber, with the exception of the fact that there were, of course, MPs and political groups who would have liked to have seen a little more. But that's how it's been in the past period. We have already been able to pay out the first tranche of 100 million in full. There was even more inscribed than there was money. But that's also what we've been able to honor. This means that some 800 locations have already been able to make extra provision in education through this money. The amounts made available for this range range from €250,000 to 1 million, which is the ultimate amount. And it depends on how many students a school has. The second tranche is now in progress. It will continue until the end of next month, in other words at the end of January. Many applications have already been received for this. Then there is an amount left that the cabinet has said it wants to take with it in the ibo that was made about housing education. In the meantime, it's also in your room. A motion was tabled for the budget debate at OCW, and I thought that Mr Bishop of the SGP was also adopted and had some other plans for that money. The cabinet still has to look into that. But there is money available, there are opportunities to pay out the money and there is a strong use of it from education and the municipalities as they have to do so together. We welcome the fact that we see that it is in order in many more schools, but we are, of course, mainly talking about the schools where it is not yet in order. That is also a substantial part. There is once again money available for this, but there are also very concrete hand-outs available for schools where there is not yet a complete mechanical approach, where it has often been possible to make the necessary arrangements. The reasons for this are very diverse. Sometimes it is because people are waiting for new construction and they no longer want to make investments. Sometimes people are in a renovation project and sometimes there are other reasons why they have not yet been able to implement it. But again, we have very clear handouts for that. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Kuzu, who once referred to something that is happening at European level. We really made a Dutch hand-out some time ago. If he doesn't have it, I've got a copy right here. I'd like to send him that hand-off. The schools are very much helped with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u366	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u367	I have one more question about Christmas holidays. I actually hear the Minister say that, if it stays a bit at this level, that is not an option at all. But I think this is a serious option that we need to look at. If it really helps to put out the contamination hotspots in schools and if it can make a long-term contribution that might allow other sectors to open up a little more, then I really think this should be on the table as a serious option. It must therefore be decided in good time, because schools and parents must be able to anticipate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u368	The cabinet has made it very clear that, as far as we are concerned, priority is for schools to remain open, provided that this can be justified. The recommendations of the OMT are also very crucial. At the moment, it is absolutely not appropriate to take such a measure, in any case because it has no short-term effect. I did not say that it should remain at this level, because we want, of course, a further decrease, so if it is really necessary, this option can be put on the table. But again, our preference is not for that. However, in this situation, in this pandemic, you can never rule out anything. That goes for this, too. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u369	Then I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. Let's go back to cleaning. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of the United States of America. I apologize to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media for other obligations or preparations. The Minister is ready. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u370	Thank you, Mr President. It's 10:30 p.m., high time to start the first term. I will start with the questions that have been asked about the long term, then with the questions about the booster and then with the questions about the care capacity. Then the questions about travelling and the omikron variant and then the questions about testing. Finally, I would like to answer a number of questions that were not dealt with in these blocks. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the long term. A lot of questions have been asked about that, and I understand that. Several groups were wondering whether the situation we are in today would give us reason to look at the current approach and see if we still need to make adjustments in this winter in order to get through the second half of that winter. Or is this it? Mrs. Kuik asked if there is room for fresh insights. In addition, Mr Omtzigt asked just like the last time when the reaction to the WRR and the Academy finally came. How are we going to shape the long term in this way? I would like to explain that we have three long-term-related issues which are, of course, interrelated but also distinguishable. I'd like to check it out with you. First of all, the cabinet wants to bring about an actualisation and a review of the approach we are currently taking. Indeed, to see if fresh insights are needed, as Mrs Kuik rightly said. Are we doing things right and are we actually doing the right thing? These are questions you always have to ask in a crisis, and there is certainly reason to do so now. We have a new variant on Dutch soil. What does that even mean? What does that mean for the approach? We have seen that people who had not yet been immunized, either by vaccination or because they had experienced an infection, became ill in a very short period of time and reported to the gates of the hospitals. Could we have foreseen that; should we have foreseen that? That's a question you have to ask yourself, of course. There are more questions you can ask yourself. I would like to explain the lines along which we intend to review the approach for the autumn. First of all, the themes on which we want to organise the reflection for the next one and a half months. The first theme is the intervention system, so the signal values. There has been a lot of discussion about whether the signal values are the right ones. We do it based on hospitalizations, but should you add an indicator based on infections, even at this stage where we have been vaccinated to such a high degree? We'll ask the OMT to reflect on that again. That is the first theme in the reflection: the intervention system; from what moment you take action. The second issue concerns the measures and instruments to prevent the spread and reduce hospitalisations. It is every time looking for additions to the toolbox, given the situation in which we stand, measures that affect the virus but the society and economy as little as possible. In a new phase, that really fits in with the fact that we are looking again at that toolbox and at the filling of it. The third issue concerns care capacity. The weather guaranteeing the accessibility of care calls for a genuine rethink of care capacity. In doing so, we take part in the concentration question that JA21 and the CDA posed, namely: is it possible to concentrate covid care in a region? The second question that comes with this is about the optimal support and the optimal use of healthcare professionals. How can we optimize it? A fourth theme is the way in which we reach crisis decision-making. For we see that the way in which we take decisions is extremely intensive. Extremely intensive for all the departments involved and also extremely intensive in the movement between cabinet and chamber. Couldn't you do that in a way where there's more order, peace and regularity than we often experience now? Finally, the fifth theme. It's about the communication and the effect of communication on behavior. A lot has been said about that. In fact, in all the debates it has come back. You can only see that we are now seeing a decline in the acceptance of measures. That may be logical after 20 months of crisis, but we cannot promise that it will be over after another few months. That means, especially since we have to spend even longer with each other, that we need to look again at how we can organise communication as effectively as possible. We're not gonna do that recalibrate under the desk at the U.S. Department. We would like to do that with all the parties involved, especially those who have already come forward to think along. I am thinking of social partners, who have made a very strong statement and with whom we are already coming to the table this week. Concerns of course, the Security Council of course, mayors, the VNG, the GGD, the education. We will invite all the parties we need to organise reflection on these five themes. In order to organise the process properly, I would like to inform you in the letter of 14 December on how we are doing this process. It is intended that we take a month for that reflection and that at the end of January we will come up with an update and a review of the plan of action for the second half of this winter, you might say. That is one element for the long term. A second element for the long term is of course: what then after that winter? Let's just assume that Corona isn't over then either. The WRR and the KNAW have outlined a number of scenarios where they actually say: you will have to relate to all those scenarios. Which of these scenarios it will be, we do not choose ourselves; that is what the virus chooses for us. But how we relate to that, of course, we choose to do so ourselves and also how we prepare for it. That is what the plan for preparedness is about, let us say the medium term, not so much for the second half of this winter, but for the next winter. Of course, these two elements are not separate from each other. We are not only going to respond to the Academy and the WRR for the first time, because the autumn approach was also based on the scenarios described by the Academy and the WRR. The themes for the longer term are of course about how you can monitor permanently, keep a permanent view of the virus. Which parts of the monitoring tools we use now, germ surveillance, sewage water surveillance, all the dashboard monitoring we do now, can you continue to sustain and use meaningfully for the longer term, and how? How useful is it to continue testing, even if we are soon to be immunized to a higher degree? How useful is it to want to keep up the willingness to test? Is it necessary? What do you have to do to keep doing that in the longer term? What commitment is needed to vaccination in order to maintain protection? Should we move to an annual booster, to a booster twice a year or just an annual booster for the most vulnerable groups? We will also have to prepare for the longer term. For example, we want to do justice to the Navigate report and anticipate in uncertain times of the WRR and the KNAW. A third theme on the longer term is not so much about corona, about this pandemic, but about the pandemics afterwards. We have, of course, come to the conclusion much earlier that we would have liked to have been better prepared for this pandemic. The pandemic, of course, has overwhelmed the world in every possible way, so whether you can really prepare yourself completely, you never know. But we could have been better prepared than we were. We have already announced in the budget that we want to make a programme on pandemic preparedness. We want to come up with a start, actually at the end of this year, with a policy agenda on pandemic preparedness. In any case, we want to opt for a strengthening of public health care. In any case, we want to opt for the theme "How to scale up healthcare when needed," the theme of security of supply and accessibility of medical equipment including vaccines, and "what can we learn from how, for example, the United States has done this?" There are a few themes that are related to that in any case; I mention direction and direction. We have a very decentralised system. That is far from ideal in a pandemic and at least very time-consuming. In a pandemic, you really want it to be different. So in what way can we even organize more control and direction over the full breadth of the management of health care? Better data and information exchange, we really have a lot to do in that. International cooperation, there is really a world to win, and investing in knowledge and innovation. These are the issues in the policy agenda on pandemic preparedness. That's what we want to come with. In short, these three themes are of course interrelated. These are: the rethinking of the approach we now have for the second half of this winter, a plan for the next winter and beyond, and the pandemic preparedness for pandemics after this pandemic. The way in which we intend to shape that process, I would like to outline you in the letter of 14 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u371	Thank you. There are a few follow-up questions. First, Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union, then Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party and then Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u372	I would like to thank the Minister for explaining in detail what his long-term plan is in a kind of three-stage rocket; I would like to sum it up. I very much look forward to the letter of 14 December. I can actually see that there is an acceleration when I look at previous answers. Then we looked more at the end of Q1 of 2022. I appreciate that. My quest in the Minister's answer is twofold. One sees the care. The Minister has outlined very well what his picture is of long-term pandemic preparedness. But we all feel how it's pinching now. We especially feel how much absenteeism there is, how many people in care suffer greatly from care that they cannot provide and what it does to the caregivers. We already have three winters in which care workers work extremely hard. I would like to ask the Minister to see what it will take for another winter to get care workers to recover from it. It's a bit longer interruption, Mr. President. But I've really been a little calmer; you've seen that. The other side is international solidarity, just when we see another variant pupping up. We have the boosters here, but I think it's a really important question in the longer term how we share the vaccines, even as rich Westen. I think that this is an important issue for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u373	I can only very much agree with the second. As far as pandemic preparedness is concerned, you can of course make observations on how Western Europe, and therefore the Netherlands, was prepared for this pandemic. Of course, you can be very sad at the way in which a whole part of the world is able, even at the moment, to resist the pandemic that rages. Of course, the availability of all the resources we have is simply absent in very large parts of the world. So we have a very big job to do. We have talked very intensively about this with the health ministers of the G20. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, in addition to the G20 for Heads of Government and Finance Ministers, added the creation of a fund, a pandemic treaty. That's what we're doing. We are therefore fully engaged in shaping international solidarity in a better way than has been the case up to now. Apart from that, we do all kinds of things around vaccination, of course, right now. I will explain this in a moment on the subject of vaccination. As far as concerns are concerned, I very much agree with you. You want the care to be scalable for the next winter anyway, in a way that is less burdensome for the rest of the care. That's the search. I also read Mrs Van den Berg's and Mrs Pouw-Verweij's quest to centralise covid capacity in the region. I'll get back to that in a minute. That is, of course, a complex subject, because you can only center things when you have people for it. Where do these people work right now? On the bed in any hospital. 'Cause there's not a game of new people out there somewhere. In short, we must be careful about this. I think we should go that way, though. The other part of the assignment I'm giving ourselves for the second half of this winter, is pulling everything out of the closet. This is an important part of the concern for people. This has to do with making it much easier for the staff to be lent out, or temporarily transferred from one employer to another employer without VAT. This has to do with an acceleration of training programmes, on top of the acceleration we have already done; is there even more rack in that? This has to do, for example, with innovative forms of internship guidance, which, despite all the fuss, allows you to continue to train enough people for this winter, but at least for the next winter. All such elements will have to be looked at with even more creativity to see what we could do at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u374	Very briefly. Thank you to the Minister for this comprehensive answer. I would like to draw his attention to this and ask him to involve these people themselves, even in the slightly longer term. I think that is precisely where we have seen in the last crisis how difficult it is to call the bell or what time it is only when we are talking about shoes, just the nurses. I have several conversations in mind that I'm thinking about right now. I think we can learn from that, also for the future, about how we keep them involved. Sometimes we can do very practical, smart things that are exactly the kind of support they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u375	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u376	Mrs. Van Esch, Party for the Animals. Mr Hijink, Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to know whether the Bekedam report and the risks of zoonoses are taken into account in that letter of 14 December on preparedness, to mention it. I actually miss that in this minister's plea so far. It is said that we were surprised by this pandemic. There have been scientists who have for years warned about the risks of zoonoses and the risks of such an infectious disease. I don't want to feel like it's a surprise once again when we have the Bekedam report that indicates exactly those risks. It would be such a shame if that were not included in the letter of 14 December on preparedness and involved. I know that the letter on that report and the conclusions that the cabinet draws will still be coming, but I think we need to link it up. I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u378	The Bekedam report really deserves a separate policy response and it comes before the turn of the year. I promised you that, and I want to keep that promise. In addition, exactly what the order was and is. On 14 December, I would like to let you know what the reflection path on the current approach is and therefore what we want to update and perhaps review it for the second half of this winter, how we are going to organise that process. I would also like to send you a policy agenda on pandemic preparedness before the end of the year. It is therefore about the readiness for pandemics at all, as a follow-up to the commitment in the VWS budget. It is not finished, but the connection must certainly be sought with everything we have to do around zoonoses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u379	Mrs. Van Esch, enough? Yes. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I'm missing in the Minister's story is what lessons he's learned over the last year and a half when it comes to our healthcare system. This minister once started his ministry with the message: we need to move towards less market forces in care. We have recently seen that this market operation also hinders an effective approach to this crisis, because organisations have to compete with each other within care and that sometimes financial interests go beyond the interests of patients and caregivers. I wonder to what extent the Minister in the long-term plans that are now being made takes the way in which the system currently stands in the way and how, with less market forces and more cooperation, we can deal with this pandemic and subsequent pandemics much more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u381	Mr. Hijink. Or no, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u382	Don't confuse us, though I can see why you're confusing us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u383	I think I had a déjà vu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u384	That is because Mr Hijink uses a phrase that I sometimes use, namely 'less market and more cooperation'. Less market, no less Mark, and more cooperation. I don't know if that's all one-on-one the same as what I'm talking about here, but there are similarities. Let me try to outline what I mean. If you look at how we've organized our care, you'll see that it's very, very decentralised. The central possibilities of steering are actually very small in our Dutch care. Look at the G.D.D.'s. We've got 25 G.D.D.s. Who's in charge of the G.D.D.? Well, those are local boards. These are general governments that are populated by aldermen of municipalities in the common scheme under which a GGD is covered, 25 times. Then you would say: that may not necessarily be practical in a crisis that needs to be managed centrally, because things like a vaccination campaign and the building of test capacity can really be organised centrally more effectively. By the way, I think we have found a great way of working. Don't listen and read this at all as a criticism of the GGDs, because I think we are truly incredibly grateful to the GGDs. Only the way the control is set up in times of A-diseases can really be different. That has nothing to do with market forces. This has to do with the design of central control when it comes to how to scale up and scale down in care. This requires consultation with the ROAZ presidents at the moment. This then requires the consultation of those ROAZ Chairmen with all the participating care parties in that ROAZ region, at least with the hospitals in that ROAZ region, but also, in fact, with the first-line care that affects acute care and long-term care, i.e. the nursing homes that provide care outside the hospital. In short, before you scale up and scale down in a tight way in times of crisis, you are endlessly on your way. So the extent to which our system is decentralised is perhaps very nice in peacetime, because it places a lot of ownership on the people because they are "boss in their own house," but in crisis time it is complicated to operate. What I am actually saying is that when it comes to strengthening our pandemic preparedness, it is about rethinking how we want care to be steered in times of crisis. That does not necessarily require a total system change, I would say, but an answer to the question of how you would like to steer care in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u385	I think it's too easy to say it's just a time of crisis. I think the problem is that we have a healthcare system that is so incredibly complicated, where there is so much consultation, where there is so much bureaucracy and where self-interest and commercial interests of health care institutions, health insurers, other organisations are too often opposing each other. And now that we are dealing with these major problems, we are facing the problem of having a health care system that is not prepared for a crisis of the magnitude we are experiencing today. I fully agree with the Minister that it is more than market forces, but my question is how he is going to ensure that we in this House can also address the Minister with regard to the problems that exist. We're about to talk about the boosters. I am simply surprised that we are still unable to be so flexible after a year and a half of the crisis that we can start it in a very short time and that we are now so many months later and dangling at the bottom of the lists in Europe. That it has lasted a year and a half and that it has not yet been possible to have an effective organisation on it, I do blame this Minister. 'Cause of course there should have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u386	I'm gonna go into those boosters in a minute, or I'm gonna answer everything mixed up. However, I would like to make the point that this is not really a matter of market forces. That's totally the publicly funded organization. That has nothing to do with market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u387	I didn't say that. For correction. I said: it is more market forces; and this is another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u388	We're gonna have that discussion later. I would like to make a few comments. Let me say that care is too complicated organized, is true. That's almost a killer, because I think everyone will say that. I think we agree that you need to reduce precisely that complexity in the direction of crisis time. How exactly can we do that then is a slightly more difficult question to answer. We are going to try to get an answer to that question, but I am also really looking forward to the debate. I also agree with Mr Hijink on another point. Of course, there are also wrong incentives which make some things so difficult, apart from all the consultation structures. If there are volume incentives in the agreements that have been made with regard to letting other care continue, you sometimes have to play very much on your leg before you actually scale the 4- and 5-care. If that scaling down of the 4- and 5-care and making your people available to covid care means you're less of a.......................................................................................................................................................... That has a care-related side, because of course these people also just rely on care, because that new hip really needs to be put up. But that also has that, with that uncomfortable word, production side. That is in crisis time, I think, an improper incentive. Of course, it is market-related. So Mr Hijink has just a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u389	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u390	How do we correct this, or how do we manage it in a different way in crisis time, is then a separate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u391	First Mrs Van den Berg, CDA, then Mrs Den Haan and then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u392	I would like to return to the Minister's comment. He said, "We're gonna look at the centering of care, but then we're gonna have to get people out of the hospital again." In other words: they are either in one place or in another place. Firstly, we think as CDA, and I think Mrs Pouw-Verweij also pointed out that you need a little less people in proportion by organising it differently. Furthermore, I still receive e-mails from people who say: I signed up as a reservist, but I get word that I am not needed; I do not understand that, Mrs Van den Berg, because there are shortages everywhere. So I also hear comments from people who sometimes retire for half a year and then have to follow a whole six-month retraining course before they are allowed to do anything in health care again. So we could make it a little easier to activate people who have retired or just left care. In our opinion, these are all things that are supportive. That would make you have a much larger group from which you can get people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u393	First of all, the concentration of covid care. I see good in that myself. I have put that question before at the LNAZ. At that time, I asked them to make a review of the restructuring plan that was made after the summer of last year. That was a rally plan that ran in steps up to 1,700. I told LNAZ that it doesn't have to now, because I think that, given everything we've done, it's just not doable to do it in a good way anymore. But 1,350 should work. By the way, I said at the time: think about how to concentrate covid care further in a region or on an x-number of places in the country. Then I got the reaction of the LNAZ that a concentration of covid capacity at the moment, with the scaling-up that we now have to realize, would be able to cannibalize the scaling-up that must be done in every hospital. Why is that? That's because if you wanted to set up that concentrated care capacity, you'd have to open up vacancies. And who's gonna fill those vacancies? These are, of course, the people from the hospitals in the same region. If you do that now, that also means that the rest of the region can create less care capacity. Now you will say: you don't have to, because you can also put together mixed teams and maybe also work with people from outside the hospital or with other hired staff. That is not impossible, but getting it off the ground in a good and still qualitative way is a very special subject. In short, I think we still have to do it, but if we now expect to have it arranged for Christmas we'll be sitting next to it... By the way, you're not saying that at all. But here's what I really want to do. There are things that I think we will need for them for a next winter anyway, if we do not want to derail the whole concern again at a next revival, but we want to ensure that we can eat the wave that comes in a good way without the enormous scaling that now has to take place in order to achieve that scaling. I would think: let's try it in one, two or three places in the second half of this winter. If that's what you want, we're gonna have to kick ass right now and really set up a task force to do it. That is what I want to do in the context of the concentration of covid care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u394	Mrs. Van den Berg. Or was that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u395	That was just about enough. I'm counting my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u396	In addition to Mrs van den Berg, the labour market in health care is of course a huge problem. We know that. It is not something of the past few years; it has been so for a long time. But we're in a crisis right now. Maybe it sounds like a little beer, but it's not. It's very difficult to find specialized nurses for the ICU. So scaling up there is really very difficult. But in nursing care and home care you could work more easily with, for example, volunteers and former nurses. We get a lot of messages from people who want to work on a voluntary basis in, for example, nursing care or home care. They are, for example, job seekers. The UWV won't let you do that. That's where the regulations come in. Would the Minister like to look at that? Because, of course, those people would be very much wanted right now. They can provide relief there. At the same time you can also look at student nurses in home care. Apprentice nurses who have signed off on all their ads have already worked independently on that subject in a nursing home. However, they are not allowed to work in home care. Their internships are cancelled, because the health insurance companies would not reimburse the care at the time they are self-employed in the district. I really think this could give some relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u397	First of all, the care capacity outside the hospital. That scaling up is happening now too. There is a plan for this, because it helps to promote the outflow from the hospitals. The scaling of 4- and 5-care and the verdict in the direction of the ZBCs not to give any more 4- and 5-care which then again cause first-line care, by neighborhood care or by pressure on the general practitioners, make room again in the neighbourhood care. This makes room especially for the elv, i.e. for the first-line beds, or for geriatric rehabilitation care. So you try to scale up that care outside the hospitals, so you also promote more outflow from the hospitals. That had come to an end, hence the need to announce phase 2d so that it would be accelerated. In addition, it is very necessary for long-term care to take advantage of all the possibilities. There is sometimes more creativity possible. Besides, there can often be more than people think. With regard to the UWV, I would like to give the suggestion to the task force that we have in mind to optimise the use of staff in care to maximize care capacity. One comment is, of course, the following. If people can and want to work in health care, I'd say take the job. By the way, willingly, it's okay, or else I'm gonna say take the job. But this is the question why the UWV imposes that obligation. Otherwise, volunteering can, of course, be a real displacement of jobs. Of course, the UWV doesn't want that. I understand that, too. So we should want to explore further how to find a practical solution in this crisis. I'll give you that. The same applies to the apprentice nurses. I cannot fully assess what the complication would be in this situation, but I think that we should give that type of creative ideas about optimizing the commitment to that task force that brings that into view for us, so that we can already see for the second half of this winter what we could use of those ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u398	It is indeed very good to ensure flow and to scale up in home care and nursing care, but also there they have to deal with huge outages. There are a lot of sick people. I am therefore pleased with the commitment that the Minister would like to see whether it can be resolved in both cases. I am aware that, for example, you would also want a job in health care. Some people don't want that. Actually, a lot of people wouldn't want that for the long term, but those people would like to volunteer now because they're job-seeking and can't find anything. They're often older people, too. Then it's kind of crazy that these rules stop them, isn't it? 'Cause there too, every pair of hands was taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u399	Let's explore this idea further. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u400	Mr Paternotte of D66 and then Mr Van Houwelingen of Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u401	It's a good thing we're getting a long-term plan in two weeks. As far as I am concerned, we could also make agreements today, which are also time-critical. I often get pictures from the minister who gets a shot in his arm. That's a lot of different pictures, and then some say, "Look, he's already had eight boosters." Then I always point out that that is the flu shot, which the Minister, of course, gets annually. But now, for the second time in a row, we have a shortage of flu shots. General practitioners say they have to sell no, when it's actually very good when people who want to get that flu shot too, and especially people in risk groups and people who work in a risky environment like a ministry. So can we at least agree that we are going to order more flu shots in February, so that next October people can get that booster and that flu shot at the same time and the invitation is sent out at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u402	This year we ordered 75% of the target group flu shots, while the turnout is usually much lower. Last year we did that for 57% of the target group and that was enough. Now we did it for 75% of the target group and I didn't get any signals that it wouldn't be enough. Generalists can just order if they need it. I think we have enough this year, but I very much agree that I would really like to see the vaccination rate of the flu shot greatly increased. Influenza is not at all as innocent as is often said. So, please, let's do everything we can to increase that vaccination rate. That 75% of the target group we have this year is the result of actually buying everything we could get. That's how much pressure there is on the market. There's just no more production than we bought. I think that's what we've been doing for the past year. For next year we try to buy in even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u403	We get a lot of emails about the care capacity, especially from nurses who say that when the corona admission certificate is introduced into the care, especially in combination with 2G, they are forced to leave the care. My question to the Minister is, because it may have been investigated, whether he has any idea, for example, how many nurses will leave care. In view of the enormous pressure on care, is that perhaps not a reason for the Minister not to introduce the mandatory corona admission certificate into the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u404	I think we should have that debate next week. Then there are a few legislative proposals on the agenda. I think we can talk about it in detail. 2G is not going to apply to care anyway. Well, that doesn't play out in the first place. But let's talk about it next week. Then we can really knock and touch all sides of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u405	Thank you. Now to the theme booster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u406	Well, well, come, come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u407	The Prime Minister has already said a few things about the boosters. I'd like to ask you to answer the questions that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u408	Here's what I'm gonna do. A lot of questions have been asked about boostering, but also about vaccination at all. I want to answer them as best I can. I can ask a lot of questions about packing boosters. I want to talk about the acceleration we have already started and the booster offensive that we want to launch. I am not getting away from any reflection on whether we would rather have started earlier and why we are starting at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u409	The Prime Minister has already said a few things about this. He gave the whole schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u410	I won't repeat that. And if you don't, you're just gonna cut me off. You're the boss here in the house. First of all, the acceleration that has already been achieved. That's like this. At the end of this week, some 700,000 shots were made, is the estimate we make. The acceleration of the pricking capacity that has now been realized at the GGD is that this week about 200,000 pricks can be made, about 350,000 pricks next week and 700,000 pricks the week after that. That's the goal. That's what it's all about. It must also be possible to actually use everything and everyone who has offered his help and have it filled on location. That's the whole logistics operation that's behind it. That's a great job for the G.D.D.s. Let me now turn to the target groups that have now experienced the acceleration. First of all, of course, they are the people with an immune disorder. We started that way a long time ago. Of these we have been able to give 114,000 people the third shot, on a total group of about 120,000 people. On 18 November, booster vaccines were offered to the group of people aged 80 and over. Today the people who are invited this year are 81 years. So we have almost invited the group 80-plussers. Most of the institutions with their own medical services have already ordered vaccines for their residents and their staff. That's about 350,000, which are already being put up or put up somewhere in the next few weeks. Then we have health care institutions without our own medical service, who can report to the GD. Since last Monday, November 29th, the GGD has already put the first booster vaccinations here. Then we have the first booster vaccinations for non-mobile elderly people living at home. Those too have already been set by the GDD. General practitioners help with that booster vaccination by vaccinating their own patients at home. For the latter groups, i.e. for the institutions without their own medical service and for the non-mobile elderly living at home, booster vaccination would not start until January. There is therefore an acceleration in it; it has already begun. From next Friday, people with down syndrome aged 18 and over who do not live in an institution but live at home can make an appointment at the GGD. So the people with down in an institution are already being pricked by their own medical services. Then the hospitals. They have ordered massive vaccines for vaccinations of their own people in recent weeks. 300,000 vaccines have been delivered. Most of them are already set. 30 hospitals are set up to vaccinate over 40,000 general practitioners and ambulance staff. Those too have already started. Since Monday 29 November, employers in long-term care can start to register and invite their own staff. The GGD sets up the vaccination sites and the vaccination is done by the care staff at the GGD site. This has already started in some regions. It always takes a while before you see that going on in the counter, because the decentralised registration has to be transferred to the central registration, but it is estimated that at the end of this week there are about 700,000 booster vaccines on the counter. On top of that, we want to come up with a further acceleration and a booster offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u411	I suggest that you conclude this section, particularly in the light of the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u412	The question was what else you could speed up. On top of the acceleration that has been achieved, we are currently accelerating the most effective six-month period between the last prick and the booster, which is stated in the opinion of the EEA and the Health Council, that we want to pursue as quickly as possible for as many people as possible. I want to come to your room on Friday with a detailed plan for a booster offensive. The wish is therefore to sit as short as possible after the sixth month, preferably in the seventh month. The booster offensive therefore involves increasing the GGD's puncture volume. That's going very quickly to 700,000 a week. A number of principles apply. The 60-plussers and the caregivers should be offered that booster as soon as possible, as soon as possible after the six-month interval. And we're vaccinating from old to young again. With this offensive, we aim to offer a booster vaccine to the largest possible proportion of the elderly and caregivers for the year round. I would like to emphasise that this is a huge operation for the GDD. It's really about tens of thousands of employees. And so the care parties have to help, help the medical students, the MBO Council, the VSNU, Defense, vets, commercial organizations. We're really asking for everyone's help. The plan of action contained in this is intended to be sent to the Chamber next Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u413	Thank you. You're done with the "booster" part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u414	With the introduction of what we intend to do with that offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u415	Then continue until you have completed the "booster" component.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u416	That's mostly about the reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u417	Good to take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u418	Would we have liked to start earlier? The answer is: yes, we would have liked to have started earlier. The Prime Minister has just outlined when we requested the opinions and what the content of those opinions was. We've acted on those advices. I think that's wise. These opinions, and therefore the choices we have made on the basis of those opinions, have not taken sufficient account of the scenario in which we have now arrived. The virus is now so incredibly in control of us with such a huge infection pressure and with such a huge number of hospitalizations... The scenario we are now in has not been enough on the retina with the advice and thus with the choices we have made. This certainly applies on the part of the cabinet, because we have a primary responsibility for this. I also answer here for that reason. But it's wide. I am thinking back to the discussion we had just after the summer break. Then it was about the WHO's call to wait for boosters and, in particular, to donate the vaccines, which, of course, we did. There's been a motion on it. That was the debate after the summer. Only after we took the decision on 2 November did we come to the Chamber to discuss whether it would not be possible to do so more quickly. If we start 15 days after the Health Council's advice, I think we've all done it very quickly. Could it have gone any faster? Could we have been ready on November 3rd? We could have made the decision earlier to start boostering, thereby operating in derogation from the advice of the Health Council. I could have, but I wouldn't have thought that was wise. Could we have started implementing it sooner? I understand the fact that it takes a real lead time before you rebuild a previously scaled-down large crisis organisation like the GGD with tens of thousands of people. That is why there are 15 days between the advice and the actual start of the booster campaign. Anyway, if we had known where we are in the months after the summer, we would have started earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u419	There's been some interruptions. First, Mrs Agema, then Mrs Simons, Mr Hijink, Mrs De Vries, Mr Paternotte and Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u420	We are in an incredibly difficult situation. Care is under unprecedented pressure, is dying, the ICUs are full, 3,000 corona patients in the hospital, surgeries are cancelled, treatments are delayed, the GPs and home care are no longer able to cope with the influx of patients. What I keep hearing the Minister and the Prime Minister do is blame the Health Council or the unvaccinated. Of course, it's not very wise that people haven't been vaccinated, but we knew they'd be in the hospital. What I am so worried about is those almost 1,500 people who are also in the hospital, but have been fully vaccinated. They actually did everything the minister expected them to do. This morning, Mr Kuipers and Mr Van Dissel confirmed that if the booster campaigns had started earlier, an incredible amount of those 1,500 vaccinated people would have been in the hospital. I'm looking for a hand in my own bosom with the Minister about the fact that he didn't start the booster campaigns earlier, for example, that he didn't let them go with the flu shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u421	It is quite simple why we did not do it with the flu shot, because the flu shot is put by the general practitioner and the booster campaigns have told the general practitioners that they cannot play a role in this. In addition, the advice of RIVM and the Health Council is not to combine the flu shot and booster. Apart from that, I think I just put my hand in my own bosom by saying that I would have liked to have started with the booster earlier. If we had known what scenario we'd be in now, with such high infection pressure and so many hospitalizations, I would have liked to start the booster earlier. I would also like to make a comment on Mrs Agema's point. Of course, that booster campaign could not have prevented this wave. That's what you see in all the other countries where that booster started earlier. They too have a concern that is under great pressure. They too have a tremendously high infection pressure. I guess you can't say that. Looking at who is now in the hospitals, it is very good to keep on the retina every time that of the 2,768 people who are in the hospital today probably would not have been 1,500 if they had been vaccinated. The majority of patients in hospitals have not been vaccinated. Of course, a booster doesn't help. Nor can you say for the other group that they had stayed out of the hospital, quite the contrary. I don't think so. It's always the case, especially for the elderly. The group of unvaccinated people in the hospital are often elderly with a lot of comorbidity. Of course, the vaccine effectiveness is not 100%. The vaccine effectiveness is already lower there anyway. Of course, we have seen a decline in vaccine effectiveness for a number of weeks, especially among the elderly. That few percent reduction in vaccine effectiveness could be restored with that booster shot. That's the effect of the booster shot. Indeed, if we had started earlier, it could have broken up with the number of patients enrolled. But it's certainly not that it wouldn't have brought us into this wave. It is certainly not the case that it could have prevented you from taking firm measures to reduce the number of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u422	Mrs. Agema, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u423	The Minister is actually doing exactly what the Prime Minister did before. He says in my direction: certainly not. That was already with the broad report on the mouth caps. Then that -53% was also "nonsense." But I didn't make it up. The Second Chamber of the States-General reads 100 reports a week and thousands a year. With these reports, we prepare our debate and then we come to the Chamber. This morning Mr Kuipers indicated that studies had been carried out in Israel on the booster shots. He said it led to a ten times lower influx into the hospitals. Then I thought, "I'll take the report." That report goes much further and says: the rate of severe illness was lower by a factor 19.5. If this report had been applied one-on-one to the Netherlands, this would mean that of the fully vaccinated people, the people who were going to get the vaccine had now been 75 in the hospital and not 1,500. I do not want to say that this would have been the case, but I would like to say to the Minister that hundreds of hospitalisations among fully vaccinated people would have been bad if he had started the booster campaign in good time and if he had not blamed the Health Council for not starting on time. Because he has his own mandate to launch a booster campaign, even without advice from the Health Council. Once again, I would like to hear the Minister's response to the study that Mr Kuipers put forward this morning and I am now putting forward here, which shows that with the boosters, the number of people vaccinated in the hospital would have been hundreds lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u424	You really can't say that. That investigation in Israel was carried out in the context of all kinds of other measures that were in force at the time. You can never say of an investigation done in a particular situation, a situation in which all kinds of lockdown-like measures were applied: oh, but then its effectiveness is very specific due to one element of it. You can't do it that way. There's a lot to do on that investigation, and you certainly can't pull it one-on-one. Is it true that you could say that it wouldn't have mattered at all? No, you can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u425	Then you don't have to take a booster anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u426	Maybe it's okay if I just answer the question, Mr. Chairman? What is the effectiveness of the booster? Why are we setting up the booster? To restore protection against severe infection and hospitalisation. It's fallen by a few percent, and that's what you see especially among the elderly, and that few percent you put back in. In those terms, you should also talk about the number of hospitalizations that might have been prevented if you had started earlier. Both Jaap van Dissel and Ernst Kuipers say that it is really not good to say how much that could be. Did it help? Yeah, it would have helped. And why didn't we? Then why isn't that recommended? I'm definitely not gonna stand behind the Health Council. I only note that when we made our choices, on the basis of the advice we received, we did not have the retina at that time that the infection pressure in the scenario in which we had now arrived was so incredibly high. This also means that with a higher infection pressure, it is more likely to belong to that few percent for whom the vaccine does not provide adequate protection against hospitalisation. Had we known that in September, I think we would have made another choice. I'm not saying that as a reproach. I say that in the affirmative. In September we had a very different conversation here. That was about the WHO opinion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u427	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u428	... not to put the booster vaccines in place for a while, but to donate them. That's what the conversation was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u429	Yes, you did. Mrs Agema also asked a question about that international research on mouth caps and corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u430	I'll get back to that in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u431	Yes. All right. Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u432	I would like to begin with a point of order. I do not know if I may speak on behalf of the Chamber, but I would like to say that it is quite impossible to hold a debate of this gravity in these circumstances. There is a limitation on the number of interruptions. It's always waiting and waiting. You ask for green, you get an answer to yellow and then you have to use an interruption to get the right answer. I think the subject is far too important for that. We started the debate rather late today. I think that also plays a role in the haste that is felt, because "due to time" has already been mentioned a few times. This is about people's lives and we are in a crisis, so I would like to have such a debate next time under different circumstances. I almost feel a tendency to repeat Mrs Agema's questions. Well, let's face it, it's pretty bad. The outgoing minister of VWS has just put forward a prognosis based on "if everything is right" and that is a bit the tone of the whole corona approach. If we're lucky, we'll have 700,000 booster shots next week. He also said just now, and that is why I went to the microphone: and anyone who has offered help is welcome to offer that help. That reminded me of last night when I was watching the Nieuwsuur program and saw a desperate but very well prepared, well-informed mayor sitting there, who said something I said from the start of the pandemic outbreak. He said: we are in a crisis situation and if there is a government somewhere equipped with crisis situations, then it is the local authorities. The mayors have a mandate to do all sorts of things. They know their congregation, know who lives there, know who works there, have short lines and could play an incredibly important role. For example, as part of tackling this pandemic, when setting booster shots in collaboration with the GGD, which they could also relieve in everything that comes into account administratively, for example by releasing officials. Just now, the outgoing Minister of Health listed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u433	May I ask you to come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u434	My question is... On this mayor's plan to give the mayors a coordinating role, so that the GGD can be relieved and we can prick faster, I hear in that same news broadcast as this minister's answer: thank you for the offer for a location; you can report to the local GGD. That's not just a sign of a huge arrogance. I also wonder: if we are in a crisis situation, should we wait for a letter next Friday, a task force somewhere in January? Or are we going to treat the crisis like a crisis and make sure that tomorrow we...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u435	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u436	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. ...with the help of mayors, can really approach the crisis as a crisis and take action very quickly, so that we haven't poked 700,000 people if everything's going well, but perhaps a multiple of them, in a shorter time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u437	Thank you. I'd like to appeal to you anyway. You are right to say that it is rather late, but I also appeal to you, like other colleagues, to put the questions briefly and concisely. Then we can also allow more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u438	That's exactly the problem. When I ask the outgoing minister why the mayor can't participate, no one has the context. That's what you have to sketch, because if you don't, nobody knows what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u439	The Minister. And I really believe that this can be short and conciseer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u440	Sure. I'm very pleased with the mayor's offer and I hope he and the municipality will help. I think the G.D.D. could really use that. I hope more mayors follow that example. That's how we do it. The vaccination capacity, the booster capacity, should be further scaled over two weeks from 200,000 pricks per week to 700,000 pricks per week. That is the task that the GGD has taken on and which they say can only be done if everyone comes to help. I really appreciate this mayor saying, "I'm here to help." Something else is if you say: take that assignment away from the GGD in the middle of that rampage and give it to 350 municipalities. I think that would be the most unwise intervention at the moment. You may not mean that, but that was the message that came through. I think that's very unwise. On the contrary, we must maintain central control and not put it overboard in the middle of crisis time. But for the scaling up everyone is needed, especially the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u441	Let's see. Mr. Hijink of the SP, for his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u442	If we look back to September, the Minister has to tell the whole story. The Health Council said at the time: prepare for the booster campaign in case the effectiveness of the vaccines would be reduced more quickly, especially in vulnerable groups. That's what happened. As the Health Council said in September, at least make sure that all the preparations have been made so that it can happen very quickly. Now we have to conclude that this has not worked properly. I'm getting e-mails, again today, from doctors and others who say they've called in to help with the booster campaign, but they don't need their help. I am told that in Nieuwsuur Jos de Blok van Buurtzorg said: district nurses are ready to give vulnerable elderly people that shot at home. A lot of help has been offered and available. I'm surprised that those plans still have to be made now, when, after last year, I expected there to be a playbook: if necessary, we, branch-branch, put these people in and then this is the plan. I don't think that's clear at the moment. Otherwise, it would have been done by now, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u443	I do not think that does justice to its complexity. In September, the Health Council said it wasn't necessary at the time. That is what the Health Council said, but it was also said that it was a good idea to prepare for implementation. The implementation plan was completed in September. Then we reduced the number of reports we received every two weeks about the reduction in vaccine effectiveness. I then told the Health Council in October that I wanted another opinion, because I saw that the first percentage reduction in vaccine effectiveness was beginning to become visible. I said, I don't know how fast that goes, so I want a new advice. The Health Council advised on 2 November and we started the booster campaign on 18 November. Frankly, I don't think 15 days to rig up such a huge operation is that long at all, no matter how much I would have liked to start earlier. Just like the entire crisis organization of the GGD. At top speed, he employed about 50,000 men. That's similar to the national police, a little smaller. Similar to DOD, slightly smaller. They needed them at top speed when they put incredibly many shots a week. When the number of pricks of about 1.5 million a week fell to about 100,000 a week, they couldn't keep a lot of people working. Some of them went to fine-meshed vaccination, but I think about 25,000 or maybe 30,000 employees in vaccination have gone back to 7,500. Now we ask the GGD to scale up to about the size they came from. In short, an organization with about the size of the national police force must halve and return in a quarter and a half. That's a huge operation. Now let's not pretend that we've taken care of that with a fingernip. I imagine there's a thought: if these guys had just been set up. You should have set them up with tens of thousands so you can start that booster campaign full speed right away. But still... is that how the labour market works now? Is this how it works that you get hired for a job you don't know when it starts? That doesn't work like that, does it? You can do that with some of the people, with the basic capacity, the project leaders and so on, but not with all the pickers that are needed. Anyway, I'd have liked to have started earlier. I'm not running away from that. I do not hide behind the advice of the Health Council either, because the cabinet bears the final responsibility and you control us and appeal to us for that responsibility. I think that's right. I only note that the discussion on boosters has been conducted in a very different way over the last month. None of us had the idea at that time that we could be in the scenario of 23,000 infections and the 300 hospitalizations a day by Christmas, or actually on 1 December. I did not have that on my mind when we had the conversation in September and I do not think the Chamber was on the basis of what was changed in the Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u444	I do agree with the Minister on one point, namely that we should all look in the mirror and show self-reflection. I think the Health Council may have been too conservative. I hope that this process will be evaluated and looked back. I think the Minister had not arranged enough that everyone was really ready to go and was in the starting blocks. I think that we in the Chamber have had a very serious discussion about the fact that at some stage some parties considered donating vaccines to be more important than boosters. The situation has changed completely. I understand the Minister's gonna have the ambition now. I would like to appeal to him about what he himself said at the press conference, namely that he is sometimes a little too firm. If I hear him correctly, he says that anyone can get their booster shot within six months of his last shot. That would, in my view, mean that by the end of the year almost all 60-plussers should have had the booster shot. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u445	Yeah, that's right. And I'm trying to present that in full detail next Friday. It is of course still being calculated and it depends on the speed with which it succeeds to get all the supply in a good way at a vaccination site. But yes, this is exactly what we're aiming for. In the beginning, of course, that is not possible, because of the people who are now getting a booster, the second shot has been a bit longer ago. But we're running into it right now. At the turn of the year, I want the situation to be such that in the seventh month, as soon as possible after the sixth month, you can get the booster shot. So as soon as possible after the sixth month after your last shot, you can get the booster shot. That indeed means that you will have done most of the 60-plussers around the turn of the year, except for the part of the 60-plussers who had their last shot less than six months ago. There is part of the 60-plussers for whom that was less long ago. They just follow in January. Older people and care workers are the first focus. If we have any slots left, people are invited on the basis of age. From January onwards we want to work in such a way that it is not so much the age that determines it as the moment when you have had your last shot. Thus, we also want to maintain until the end of the booster campaign that the last shot is leading for the moment you are invited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u446	It would be very good news if we could indeed ensure that all 60-plussers around old and new had at least a booster shot. In my view, this means that millions of shots must be made. That's gonna be quite a job. Can I ask the Minister to give us a schedule, and if he is going to indicate, for example, on the coronadashboard what the progress of those booster shots is going to be like? I think it's important that we follow that closely. I think things have gone wrong in the past period, but I hope we can make it up to you in the next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u447	Yeah, absolutely. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u448	Mr Paternotte, D66. Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u449	I think Mrs. Den Haan was earlier. My experience in this debate is that Mrs Van der Plas was usually before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u450	I'm fine with Mrs. Den Haan going early. This was Mr Paternotte's last interruption, so that's too bad for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u451	Thank you to Mr Paternotte, because it is true. I would like to return to Mr. Hijink's remark. It is true that the GD indicates that some people are not needed. I don't think that's because they're not necessary. There's another rule in the way. For example, the GGD indicates to quite a lot of retired nurses, general practitioners and students that they want you to work twenty hours, with a breakdown over weekdays and on weekends. They are all available for less than 20 hours. The same applies to the nurses of Jos de Blok, because they are available for 18 hours. Twenty hours of work is impossible for a lot of people. I would like to ask the Minister, through the President, to look at that as well. I think it's gonna get a hell of a lot of extra people if that rule goes away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u452	Which also causes grid problems, which makes it complicated to scale up so many people in such a short time. That's the other side. Let us not try to become the best HR head of the GGD here. I hear what you're saying. I hope that the offer that is being made will be used as well as possible. Sometimes that offer just doesn't fit and there's another offer that fits better. My goal is simply to prick as much as possible. That's a very simple goal, you'd say. It's just the speed and numbers that matter to me. How the GGD achieves that, I also want to leave a little bit on the GGD board. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to make the schedules at the G.D.D., and I've been busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u453	I almost knew you were gonna say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u454	After 37 debates, you might become a little predictable. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u455	It is, isn't it? At the GGD the grids are made in systems. I know, also from people's experience, that it is best to make the planning for less hours once people have been hired there. I have one more question. To plan the booster shot, you need to make an appointment. Fortunately, a lot of people do that online, but there are also a lot of elderly people who can't do that. They can't even call. For example, they want family to do that. I can't. Firstly, it is because it takes a very long time, because the call centres are overcrowded. There aren't enough people there. At the same time, those people want the person who has to make the appointment on the phone. When you talk about very old people with, for example, a number of conditions, you can't. Would you care to take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u456	Of course, you really have to agree to the deal. It's no different, and there's no other way. There really are practical ways to do that. For example, you can visit your old mom. You're gonna make a phone call together. You can call your old mom by clicking someone. So there really are a lot of opportunities to do that. So I think that's gonna take care of itself. What's true is that the call centers are super crowded. There are now 8,000 men working at the call centers for testing and vaccinating. That's being scaled up to 10,000 men. Also there we are incredibly hard looking for more people. We try to train as many people as possible as quickly as possible. That too is hard work. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u457	Let me take a look: Mrs Van der Plas or Mr Paternotte? It was actually Mr Paternotte, I must say. This time it was Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u458	Don't make me bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u459	I feel some kind of tension between you. I don't know what it is. Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u460	I get the impression that the opposition in particular always comes up with ideas. Can't we do it this way, with the mayors? Neighborhood care The Netherlands also thinks that boostering can be done faster if the GGD's start working more together with agencies. And I keep hearing, "No, you can't." Or: no, we have to keep it central. Or: we can't. But we should just booster, right? I have a bit of the impression that any idea that is being put forward is kind of getting shot at here. On the other hand, the opposition parties are still being told: you are only complaining and you are not coming up with solutions. But we do come up with solutions, but nothing is done about them. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to examine whether that idea of the mayor, Mr President, we have had that letter, and I thought it was a good idea. Is the Minister not simply prepared to consult, for example, with the UNG on this issue? If it doesn't, it won't hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u461	We've had contact with the mayor a long time ago. Don't get me wrong, I'm very happy with the offer he's making to help. We can use all the large human resources to scale up the pricking capacity as quickly as possible, or to scale up the administrative capacity at such a location. So I'd really like to take advantage of the mayor's offer. There's no misunderstanding about that. My hesitation in the mayor's offer had to do with the fact that he said, "Let's coordinate." And then I thought, "Well, I don't know if it's gonna help, if it's gonna be a job with 25 GGDs, to take that away from the GGDs in the middle of such an operation and ask 350 municipalities. I think that's the most unwise intervention you could do in crisis time. That has nothing to do with opposition and coalition. This simply has to do with the practical design of such a booster campaign. I'm totally color blind when it comes to the angle where ideas come from. A good idea is a good idea, even if it comes from an opposition party, and a bad idea is a bad idea, even if it comes from a coalition party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u462	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u463	The Minister thinks it is not a good idea and then concludes that I hear him say now that it may be a bad idea. But get in touch with the VNG. Maybe there are some really good ideas in there. I don't understand the resistance to that, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u464	There's no resistance. I don't have one. Anyone who can help can come and help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u465	Then what's the trouble of getting in touch with the VNG and saying: we don't think this is a very good idea, but maybe you have good ideas about it; can you help us with that? What's wrong with that? You have to take whatever you can, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u466	We have at the end of the day such a red ear of calling with everything and everyone to come help. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u467	I am looking at Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u468	About the boosters. No one thought this was necessary for Christmas, I heard the Minister say. In September we already asked questions, because we saw that there was a difference with Belgium. In October, we tabled a motion because we saw that we were going behind. No one would have thought that, except for the health councils in many different countries, which also gave advice on this issue. In Paris, Brussels and Vienna, the 18-year-olds can stand in line today and they will have their turn immediately. Here, just as the minister said, we're with the 81-year-olds. We can only conclude that there is indeed a mistake in thinking that we did not need the boosters for Christmas. Yeah, it's a great operation that had to be rigged up and it's going at a fast pace now, but it should have started sooner. On the basis of what was said in other countries, and they're really not crazy, shouldn't we have known that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u469	I think I was the first to say that the opinions and choices we have made on the basis of these opinions are not sufficiently based on the scenario in which we have now found ourselves, with the enormous burden of infection and the enormous number of hospitalisations. I didn't have that on my retina in September. My point is that this also applies to the Chamber. I am looking at the motion tabled on 18 August, supported by many parties, in which the government was asked not to operate booster vaccines until the global vaccine availability has increased significantly. That was the debate back then. In it, the motion echoed the WHO, which said: "Don't do it." In the same month questions were asked by your colleague, including from D66, in which the same was said: donate enough, have you heard what the WHO says? In mid-October, when we saw what was happening in several countries, and in particular what we saw happening with the decreasing vaccine effectiveness, I myself was the one who said: I want a new advice from the Health Council. Do you know what was the reaction of the nursing homes? Don't, wait till January, because we can't have that organization right now. The GPs told us one thing: we're really too busy with other things, so we really can't help with the booster campaign. That's not a reproach. It is simply the observation that we have not had enough together on the retina that we would end up in the scenario we are now in. Now that we've gotten into that, I say we should have started earlier. Of course it is. I fully agree with you on that. But could the booster campaign have prevented this wave or the enormous pressure on hospitals? No, the pressure on hospitals and this huge wave has to do with the fact that still a large million people haven't taken a vaccine at all, the first two haven't. That's the most important background to this huge pressure on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u470	As part of the booster campaign, the Minister says that we should stick as much as possible. But I think you said after last summer's vacation in the Knight's Room that you're not gonna let them prick you for fun either because there are side effects. You can already feel the question coming. How do you know it's safe enough to stick around, maybe twice a year with boosters? How do you know combining those vaccines is safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u471	In its opinion of 2 November, the Health Council said that the type of side effects is similar to the second injection. From the second shot, we know it gives a little more side effects than the first shot. The booster is therefore similar to the second injection in terms of side effects. That's the answer to one question. The other question was whether you could also vaccinate heterologist. That's what research has been done, and the Health Council is advising. That makes us put the booster as we put it now, with Moderna and Pfizer, both approved to booster. Not all vaccines already have a booster approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u472	I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt to see if he still wants to interrupt. Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u473	I'm a little surprised at the numbers, because it didn't fall a few percent. Professor Kees Hartog's research shows that in the current wave 20% of the people who get sick in the nursing homes die from corona. It's the same as in the first wave. So it didn't fall a few percent. In his opinion, the oldest group, which also has the greatest immune problems, has fallen 100%. It is claimed here that it was under special circumstances in Israel, but two groups have been compared, namely those who had a booster with those who had not had a booster. Then whether you're in a lockdown at that time, which wasn't quite the case for quite a period of time, is a irrelevant difference. You're just making a comparison between who's had a booster and who's not. The difference was a factor of ten, as Mrs Agema said. 90% of the vaccinees in the hospital would've cared. The paper was in the New England Journal of Medicine on 15 September. That's the day after the Health Council's first advice. So all this data has been known for two months, or two and a half months. All countries act on that. The UK started the booster campaign more than two months ago and has now reached 18-plus. Belgium also started two months ago. How am I supposed to indicate that all those countries around us six or seven weeks earlier see that you need to start boostering, and that it only comes to this at the beginning of November? I know there's a whole operation behind it. I respect all that work. But how come we are two months behind countries with which we want to compare, such as Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom, each time in such processes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u474	That's a clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u475	I think it is right for Mr Omtzigt to ask me to reflect on that research in Israel and on the timing of that research. Why hasn't that led to a change of advice before? I think it would be wise if I put that question to the RIVM and in particular, in this case, to the Health Council. Otherwise, I will give you the explanation here, and I think it would be wise for people to articulate in a good way why they did not see any reason to advise other than what they did at the time. I would also like to return to Cees Hertogh's research in writing, because I think that the conclusion that mortality is veuze bar with previous waves is a little too angular. The phenomenon in these nursing homes is that the rate of infection is now very much higher, even the number of sites where there is infection is very high, by the way, but that the mortality is not comparable to that in the first or second wave, when we did not yet have a vaccine. In short, you can see right there that vaccines work. By the way, you cannot compare nursing home residents with the average 70-plussers or average elderly, because nursing home residents are of course much, much, much more fragile. And, of course, mortality is just high right now in the nursing homes. Fortunately not comparable to where we came from; the mortality is lower but with a much higher infection pressure. So there too, you just have to say that vaccines work. We also know that most people who get infected with corona in the nursing home are fortunately experiencing relatively mild symptoms. This is without prejudice to the fact that the number of sites currently visited is far too high. I'll go into the investigation of Cees Hertogh myself. I will ask the Health Council to reflect on the investigation from Israel and to ask why it did not give rise to a different opinion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u476	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u477	Thank you for hearing that reflection. I hope that in that process we ask not only the people who have advised for that reflection, but also a number of people who were not in the OMT. I hope that we will also ask a number of experts who have not yet interfered, if necessary from a Danish OMT or a British OMT or from a reflection club. It would be very helpful to have some outside look; the hardest thing is always to reflect on your own actions. In fact, we politicians find that almost impossible. I'd love to hear what's going on. Then there's the study from Israel. On September 15, it was in The New England Journal of Medicine. Then it lasted six or seven weeks in this country. I would like to ask the final question. I was just showing a graph. In that graph you can see that in Belgium mortality in nursing homes is slightly decreasing between October and November, whereas there the pandemic has a similar course, with a significant increase and severe restrictions at the moment. In the Netherlands we have seen a threefold increase in the number. Will the Minister include this in the study on whether it would have been preventable? Because in the first wave, we just forgot about the nursing homes. We looked at that too late. Could we have prevented this from happening if we had started boostering earlier and seen it go wrong before?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u478	That's a lot of statements, Mr President, which I need to unravel, if that's okay with you. Or at least I'd like to rip it apart, to be able to react separately. The thesis that we would have forgotten the nursing homes, I don't share. On the contrary. It is absolutely true that in the nursing homes during the first wave something terrible sad happened. We have learned from this ourselves and have done it really differently in the second and third wave. Vaccination makes a world of difference, but it doesn't keep the virus out of the door. That's what we see now in the nursing homes. Nurses will be part of the evaluation of the OVV. I think it is good to have the debate about it afterwards so that we can have that debate on the basis of that evaluation. That's one. Second. I have just promised to ask the Health Council to reflect on the question: has the investigation in Israel given rise to another advice? No, I guess not. But why not? Should that have given rise to a change of advice? I really think that's something for the Health Council to do. I could indeed imagine that the Health Council not only discusses this in its own circle, but also involves third parties, but I leave it there. I understand the question put by Mr Omtzig. The third question concerns nursing homes in Belgium. I would like to ask for a reflection on that. I don't think it's possible to do that in the sense of: if we had started the booster earlier, how much disease and mortality would we have avoided? I don't think the situations are that easy to compare. That is, at most, modelly to be assessed, but I do not think it is so easy to actually establish because then you have to know the health situation of the people in the nursing homes. I don't know what the comorbidity is, which means you can't just say anything about it. But something of a comparison between the Netherlands and Belgium is perhaps to be made, so I'm going to ask RIVM if they would like to give a more detailed explanation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u479	Thank you. Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. After that, I would like to suspend very briefly and ask Members, as I promised, to have a look at what we are going to do tonight. I'd really like to discuss that with you after this. Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u480	In my view, we are always talking about all kinds of consequences here, so I see it at least as a policy where we have been a little too rich in structural terms. We underestimated the delta variant. We thought: such a high vaccination rate is going to give us a lot of protection. When the first infections increased in early October, we did not act promptly. I think the time is right now, with so much delayed care, to really make a lot of work and get the R even deeper under 1, so that we don't end up in such a situation again. We already have 20% excess mortality. Let's seriously be more careful. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to take a broad view of the attitude towards this virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u481	I'd love to. In any case, I would like to point out that we want to include this question in the reflection over the coming period, which is actually the first job, on the whole intervention system as we have devised it. If we were to get over a seven-day average above 25 ic and above 100 hospitalizations a day, we would take additional measures to give the virus a bow down. We want to keep that intervention system under review. Here's what I'm gonna say. The spread of the virus is getting very low structuralally, and I hear a number of parties argue for it; you are one of those parties that is in favour of it in a structural way, and it is never without cost. Then I don't just mean financial costs, yes, and economic damage, yes. But the damage and suffering caused by the measures against the virus are not insignificant. Would it be best for the distribution if you just closed the schools and only taught online? Yeah, I'm sure. We have certainly reduced the virus a bit more, but the damage to children's development is so huge that we cannot afford it. It is the task of politics to make choices in this respect, and we are doing so here. That is why I stand for the choices we have made in recent months. You always have a proportional weighting to make and always make sure that you take measures that affect the virus, but please the society and the economy as little as possible. We've already suffered so much damage to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u482	I can broadly follow the Minister. When I look back at the past period, I see and I think that we go very much from the first or second gear at once to the fourth, fifth or sixth gear and then back again. I'm actually looking for the modus operandi where we're stable in third gear. Let me give you a concrete example. France says: we are doing everything we can to prevent the hard lockdown and the closure of schools, and all other measures are serviceable and subordinate to them. They communicate that very clearly in a press conference and make that clear. I'm not an advocate for the lockdown. I don't think anyone likes the lockdown. I'm now pleading for the lockdown because it's a circuit breaker and we need a hard cut in the number of infections. But I would very quickly take a kind of French approach, a Portuguese approach or a Danish approach... I don't care. All these countries are choosing something else, but structurally they are trying to put in place a stable policy that does not fluctuate. I think that is the only way forward to get out of this, both mentally and economically, but also in terms of care. According to the WRR's report, we're probably gonna have this between us for a very long time. This is a marathon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u483	I know that by now. I would very much like to agree with you, but my lesson from the last twenty months is that reality often turns out to be a little less malicious than I would like. A feasible reality is, of course, fantastic for politics. You turn buttons, you look on your dashboard, you know exactly what measures to take, and then the problem is solved. But reality is different. Take Denmark. I always look at Denmark with admiration. That's where they really celebrated Victory Day. They celebrated that the virus was over; that was the text of the Minister of Health, Magnus Heunicke. He said, "We stop the moment Corona determines our lives. That period is over." A few weeks later, they had the same problems as us, with a much higher infection pressure. This happened while their vaccination rate is substantially higher, especially among 50-plussers. In short, there is actually no country you say: I would really like to trade with that. I do see elements in the approach of other countries that I think we might be able to learn from. With that attitude, I would also like to go into the next one and a half months. I want to make sure we bring that type of class too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u484	Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u485	Finally, Mr President. It is often said that there is no other country that is really doing much better. Well, at this stage there are countries that are doing better. They really have significantly fewer infections per 100,000 inhabitants. They're having a less severe heart attack. By combining these two points together, and looking back on the past, I think that in the future we should simply be less wealthy and be on the cautious side of the models. I'll stick with that. We're not going for a short, hard cut right now. I am really concerned that instead we are going to face a winter swamp with a lot of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what I'm genuinely worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u486	I get that. But the collateral damage of too heavy measures is also not insignificant. That's the first thing I want to say. I would also like to say that, for the very reason Mrs Gündoğan calls it, we also think it wise to reflect on the approach we have now. Are we doing the good stuff? Are we doing things right? That's a question you have to ask yourself every day anyway. We have that to live up to now. We're not just gonna do that with the knees under the desk. We will also involve external experts. On 14 December, we would like to let you know how we see that process in front of us. At the end of January we would like to send a letter about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u487	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a moment, just to see what we are doing with the Members. It's now 0200 hours. I've agreed to have that adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u488	I'm going to resume the meeting. I should also like to inform the directors of what we have agreed to. The Court has indicated that it attaches importance to completing the first term today and also the second term, so that there is the possibility of tabling motions. The appreciation of the motions will then be done in writing. I would therefore ask the Minister to answer only the questions that lie ahead, without any detailed introductions and matters that we may also be able to read in the letter that will be sent to the Chamber this week. I have also said to Members that it is an exception. We are now very busy with all kinds of budgets. The Minister will also be busy with all kinds of administrative arrangements in the morning. So it's an exception. It's not ideal, but I'm glad we found this solution. I will give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u489	Mr. Chairman. I'm very happy about it. I was in the First Chamber yesterday and I am in the Second Chamber today, so another Chamber Day is quite complicated. There are a few other chores to be done in this crisis. I'm going to answer very succinctly. What about reaching the unvaccinated groups, especially the 50-plussers? That is actually going quite well, but we can see that more and more efforts are needed. There are all kinds of interventions on the table. The communication about the campaign Picking without appointment is currently taking place in 800 zip code areas in which the vaccination rate is lagging behind. There is a structural commitment to debunking disinformation. There are many interventions that are important for this group, such as pop-up locations in hospitals, vaccination by general practitioners in the Biblebelt and the doctors on the street. That is really very close in the neighborhoods and we do see that the number of first shots among this group is still increasing over the last few weeks. And that's nice, I think. Are general practitioners and pharmacies used as much as possible to reach unvaccinated patients? Yeah, sure. We'll do it where we can. Pregnant women. We know how important it is for them to be vaccinated. What we are doing is strengthening information and education for pregnant women and women with a child's wish. For this we work together with the Royal Netherlands Organisation of Obstetricians and the Netherlands Association for Obstetrie and Gynaecology. All kinds of educational materials are being made. A doubt telephone has been set up at the Erasmus MC to which people can call with doubts. We try to reach people through all kinds of movies and communication via national newspapers. Corona vaccination.nl/pregnant contains all communication materials about pregnancy. We also have a collaboration with gynecologist Sam Schoenmakers to provide further information on the subject and incredibly much more in all the languages of the rainbow. So we are really trying to do everything we can to ensure that we reach pregnant women and women with a child's wish. Can there be a vaccination site in any hospital? Well, in every hospital, I don't think so, but in more and more. It started in the Maasstad Hospital in Rotterdam-Zuid and that actually works very well. So more and more GGD regions are opening up pop-up locations in hospitals, especially for people entering the policies. Vaccination of vulnerable children between 5 and 12 this week. Well, I can't, but it's fast. We have an opinion to expect from the Health Council shortly. Vaccination of children, of course, listens closely. This is, in particular, my expectation, about identifying the group of children with increased vulnerability: who are they and how can we invite them? All preparatory implementing acts are already in place. Of course, we can only make the choice when advice is actually given, but all preparatory actions are currently being done. In this case it is about child vaccine, which I believe will be delivered to us on 13 December. That will then have to be cleared up, so I think we could start in mid-December. Can we do that sooner? Yeah, you'd have to use off-label. Then you should use the adult vaccine. I don't think doctors are gonna start doing that, off-labeling adult vaccines. Is that happening somewhere else? Yes, I understand that some doctors in Germany are doing it, but it is certainly not a German or Bundesländer policy. On the contrary. It's a doctor's choice. And I don't know about doctors who feel that way. I wouldn't really feel like that either, what that child vaccine is really a different type of vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u490	Mid-December?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u491	Yeah, mid-December. Are general practitioners sufficiently rewarded for convincing patients? When it comes to extra work, we always make good agreements with general practitioners about what the fee should be for that. I do not believe that the fees stand in the way here at the moment. It is especially time, because general practitioners are just insanely busy. There is a lot of talk about hospitals, but do not underestimate what needs to be done in the first line of work. Then the development of the other vaccines. Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Bikker asked a question about this. It's about the classic vaccines and protein vaccines. First of all, Sanofi's protein vaccine. That failed, so there won't be. That was one of the horses in the stable we had bet on but it didn't turn out to be. The first protein vaccine that comes from Novavax. This will come in the course of 2022. I think the rolling review has started. We've ordered 840,000 of them, so as soon as they come, we can make them an offer. The classic vaccine with inactivated virus, so really classic, is coming too. The first delivery is expected in April at the earliest. That would be Valneva's. But that also has to crawl through the gate of the EEA, so we're just not there yet. Neither Novavax nor Valneva has been approved at this time. We do know that there are groups that say: we would like to, because we have fewer objections in principle. I would like to say to those people: please, don't wait for a vaccine that comes in April. By then, you'll be finished. That is the expectation of all experts. It's happening so fast at the moment and the rate of infection is so high that I say: use all the other stuff that protects you very well; please don't wait for a vaccine somewhere in April. Then I have the vaccination questions... No, not quite. Questions have been asked about the patents and the donations. We've answered several questions about the patents. Our position on this has not changed either. We are in favour of temporarily suspending intellectual property rights where a limited exemption, a waver, from intellectual property actually helps to increase production opportunities. But I am not in favour of removing patents, because that does not help to maintain the volume of investment in vaccines. If we had done that before, we probably wouldn't have been that far with BioNTech/Pfizer, for that wouldn't have been the development they've been going through. In short, we should not do that. We need to remove a restriction on production, and we are doing everything we can to do that. I don't think property rights are helping to get more production capacity now. Then Paternotte asked about the promised donations of 22 million. We committed to it, so we formally donated 22.5 million vaccines to COVAX. They are not earmarked for Africa, but they will be available to COVAX. Of course, we depend again on the speed of production that determines how quickly we get those vaccines delivered. It is also quite a puzzle to be able to comply with all the promised vaccines for other countries, given that we ourselves are accelerating the booster campaign. Those are communicating vessels. We want to honour all the commitments we have made, of course, but it may not work until a little later. I think I have dealt with most of the questions that touched on care capacity in the context of the plan of approach we are making for the second half of this winter, especially where it concerns the centralisation of care capacity. They also asked for opportunities to recruit temporary staff. Mr Van der Staaij has asked for this. Is this possibility being used sufficiently? I think that is a fair question. I could now say 'yes' and then sum up what we are doing, but I am certainly forgetting a number of possibilities that we are not yet making use of. So let's really look at that very creatively and thoroughly. This also applies to the options that Mr Hijink has mentioned to appreciate, support and maintain people. This is also in line with Mrs Kikken's motion, which was adopted in the previous debate, to do everything in its power to take care of people and thus to ensure that people's commitment to care can be optimised. Mrs Den Haan has made suggestions for this, which I would also like to take with me. The same applies to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB, although B1 is a very low level of language. I think it's quite possible to see if you could employ temporary foreign care staff, but you have to learn some language if you're going to be able to be on a bed. Otherwise, it also gives a very unheimical feeling to the people who are in that bed, because they cannot even communicate with the people who are at their bed. With regard to this language requirement, therefore, we are quite strict when it comes to direct care providers. At the same time, Dutch can also be learned. It's not that complicated. A lot of people are dropping out of training. Well, a lot of people start training, too, I'd like to put it against that. Over 9,000 students have started the course year with the HBO course in nursing. That's 12% more than a year earlier. The number of nursing students in the MBO remained the same, at over 10,000. There has been a slight decline in the decline in health training. At the same time, I think: the lower the drop-out in care training, the greater the outflow. So I think what Mrs Van der Plas is saying here is actually right. I'd like to work on that, too. So that is what we are going to do for the second half of December. That's about staffing and caring capacity, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u492	I'm just gonna see if you want to interrupt or if the Minister's gonna finish the staffing story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u493	This was the story about staff and care capacity. Then I'd like to continue traveling and the Omikron variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u494	Look. That is a good time for Mrs Den Haan and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u495	Next time I'll do something with a tan, because I have a shade, so I don't think I'll stand out if I want to do my interruptions. I'd like to interrupt the booster vaccinations. Indeed, the Minister indicated that 60-minners with vulnerable health are soon to take their turn and have already received an invitation or have already been pricked. That is of course very nice, but there is one group that hasn't had an invitation and hasn't been poked. That's a very small group, but it's a forgotten group. I would like to ask the Minister if he would pay attention to this. It concerns the group of 10,000 people with muscle disease and limited respiratory function. They do have a very big chance of getting to the ICU. So I'd appreciate it if you'd pay some attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u496	They're often people who aren't mobile enough to get to the prick's street. So they have to be pricked at home. That group was supposed to start in January. We did that with home vaccination, but we didn't really do that fast enough. So now we just let the GGD do that, by general practitioners in collaboration with the GGD and by others in collaboration with the GGD. The GGD has now started, but that is a very labour-intensive group. Of course, it is very vulnerable, so it has to be done quickly. There is also a six-month period for this. So that group has been brought forward. We are trying to regulate capacity to speed up that home vaccination for this group as well. So he hasn't forgotten, but he is the most difficult group to arrange properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u497	That's good to hear, because almost all of these people were vaccinated in April/May, so for them that six month period is over. But it's nice to hear there's attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u498	Yes, and some unfortunately later. I'm sorry about that, too. But if that six month period is around, at least we'll be as close as we can get. We are also really trying to speed up the capacity for home vaccination, but that is the most labour-intensive thing you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u499	When it came to attracting extra people for care, the Minister just responded positively to a number of suggestions. We all heard the examples. I myself got one of those letters from someone a while ago, about which you just frown the eyebrows. Whoever signed up to work at a care facility, but there they said, we're scaling down, so we don't need you. If that happens more often, something's gonna go wrong. My question is how the Minister is going to react to this. When can we hear more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u500	I would very much like to let you know on Friday how people can come forward if they just want to help with pricking. There are a lot of people who can and want to prick and have done so before, for example former nurses, and who do not know exactly where to report. I think we should make that easier. That's what the G.D.D. is doing, and I'll let you know on Friday how we could do that. In any case, people can report to the National Care Reserve, formerly Extra Hands for Care. Go to the website and you can report there. And assume you'll be deployed soon, because we need a lot of people. So that's the second element. The third element is that I hear many good suggestions for how we could still inject new creativity into it in order to preserve people for care and use them as optimally as possible, despite all the pressure and even though we have already tried a thousand projects. I don't really want any of those ideas to be lost. That is why, in the context of the reflection on the approach now being taken for the second half of the winter, I would like to put a task force in place, not only on the theme of focusing care capacity in a region, but also on the theme of optimising the use of care personnel, especially at this stage, between institutions, from outside to inside and with reduced training pathways, and everything related to it. I would like to put a separate task force on that, and the outcome of that we will then involve ourselves in the rethinking of our approach, at the end of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u501	I also had two questions about the vaccinations. I have asked two questions which I do not think I have heard coming. I might have been asleep, though, because it's getting late. I had asked what they were doing in France, namely to offer it a booster shot at the same time as the flu shot. And I had asked about the slots for pricking without an appointment, which are now often used by young people. Should we not use it, at least temporarily, especially for older people who need a booster shot, because the booster shot is now so important and there is a risk of a healthcare attack?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u502	I answered the first one in a nutshell, but I didn't mention your name. That's why you didn't register it, I guess. We have really been advised by the RIVM not to mix that up. There is a very practical reason not to mix it up, namely that the general practitioners put the flu prick and not the booster. If they had to do the corona vaccination, they would also have to observe the fifteen-minute waiting period, in accordance with the Bolt Directive. And that's just not what general practitioners are equipped for. It's just not possible to do that. That is the practical reason not to do it. The general practitioners weren't waiting for that either. The medically substantive reason is that flu vaccination often coincides with pneumococcal vaccination. In this case, there would also be a third shot. RIVM has said that at the moment it has too little research material to say with certainty that it can be safe. It has not been said that it cannot be safe, nor has it been investigated that it is not safe, nor is it safe. That's why we didn't make that choice. Then your other question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u503	Picking without an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u504	Yeah, stabbing without an appointment. Look, what's really important is that we're still doing everything we can to get that 11.5% shot. Primo vaccination still offers the very best protection against hospitalisation. So no matter how much I attach to those boosters, all of which need to be set up as soon as possible, we should never stop vaccinating fine-meshed. The effect of primo vaccination on reducing hospitalisations is still many times greater than the effect of the booster. So I'm not going to release the youngsters' slots for the booster. What we are going to do is to maximise the booster, to organise as many capacities as possible on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u505	I fully agree with the Minister that primary vaccinations also have absolute top priority, that they should be 11% top priority and that we should make sure that the primary vaccination rate is much higher. However, we can see in the figures that an unvaccinated 18-year-old still has less risk of hospitalization than a vaccinated 70-pluser, especially if the person had the second shot six months ago, where you see something of delusional immunity. So if we look purely at a risk analysis, at a stage where there is scarcity in hospitals, I would say, let's look at it more pragmatically. That 18-year-old is very important and we need to hold on to that energy, only in a few weeks. Now we have to bet on as many beds as possible. For that, the booster is much more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u506	A few things about that. The booster's pricking capacity is at 200,000 this week, next week at 350,000 and next week at 700,000. That's the plan we're working on right now. For shots without an appointment, it's 10,000, 12,000 slots a week. So it's not like it would really make sense if you added that to the booster capacity. It would, however, dissuade the people you finally have on board, after you've talked the blisters on your tongue, if you'd now say, "Get that shot in January." Nor is it the case that there are only young people on these pricking arrangements. I find that so fascinating myself: there are still 50-plussers coming for a first prick appointment. In short, I think we should all just do it at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u507	Thank you. Then travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u508	Yes. A number of questions have been asked about this, especially travel in relation to tests and the omikron variant. We also don't know a lot about that omikron variant. We're concerned that that variant appears to be more contagious. That is also the reason why that variant has been designated by the WHO as a variant or group of companies. That's the message from southern Africa. In fact, we do not know enough about the extent to which it would also be more sickening. We also do not know very much, although I do see that all kinds of statements are being made about it, about the extent to which this new variant would escape the immunity that has been built up by vaccination or through infection. I think we'll know better and better in the next few weeks. Until then, we have to slow down the introduction of that virus anyway. If we look back all the samples in the sequencing, it might well be that we can see that this variant has already been present in the Netherlands at a number of times. But much can never be, because that variant was not picked up in the sequencing. So we also have real profit to make in slowing it down. What's been done for that? First of all, we've declared a no-fly zone. This is an entry ban for non-EU residents from the countries concerned. There were already two planes in the air, which were grounded. The people have all been tested and quarantined. Meanwhile, all flights after those two are subject to a double test requirement for boarding there. In the Netherlands one must be quarantined, whether or not one has had a positive test during the additional test on arrival. I have read some rather confusing reports about this, but we have therefore introduced a mandatory test at the time when we have identified southern Africa as a very high risk area with a variant or group. So that test obligation has been de facto lifted. What I wrote to your Chamber in the letter we sent this morning is that I would like to consider whether that test should also be compulsory on Dutch soil. We can't do that now on the basis of the law. You can only do that if you change the law. When amending that law, we will have to answer the question of proportionality in a good way, because a mandatory test on Dutch soil is actually an invasive act. That's the way you look at it. And what is the added value in terms of action options, you will ask when we deal with that bill. For those who enter, who have thus crawled through the double-test obligation on the African side, must in any case be quarantined and may not go out until day five of that quarantine. The quarantine obligation is also respected. In short, what is the additional action option you have to keep the virus under control? In fact, we serve research purposes in particular. We want to keep a closer eye on what comes in and we also want to keep our finger on the wrist: if there is a double test obligation on the African side, does that mean that we are clean at the introduction? Or does a few slip through it and why is that? We are considering it. I would very much like to share the outcome of that consideration with the Chamber. We will really do that in the short term. We're not gonna sit around for months. Then there is the second suggestion you make: wouldn't you really like to test everyone who comes from outside the EU further before boarding? That's what RIVM also advised. The cabinet wants to consider that. In fact, that will be my commitment in the discussions with colleagues in Europe. However, I believe that we must work together in Europe in this area. If the Netherlands has different test requirements for extra-EU flights to Europe than other European countries, then assume that some of the flights will emigrate to Frankfurt and Paris. That is bad for Schiphol and does not help us at all with the virus, because that really cannot be stopped by European internal borders. In short, if you're gonna do it, you're gonna have to do it real and good. Then you should apply that test obligation to all non-European flights to Europe. I'm very attached to that coordination. A number of groups, in particular Mrs De Vries, have said something rather sharply about the road map. I understand that, actually. There a number of things are really not done well, says KLM, says also Schiphol, says also the GGD. The first talks have already been held on what really needs to be different and better. There was a playbook, but it wasn't completely flawless. That playbook needs to be made up-to-date and we need to evaluate the event. In the next situation, we really need to operate tighter than we did last Friday. I do appreciate the fact that this will just take a little time. But could it have been better and should it have been? Yes. Then I guess I've had the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u509	Here comes Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u510	Yeah, of course I can't get away with it that easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u511	This was the block of travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u512	Next comes the block test and the block varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u513	Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u514	I'd like to address last week's press conference. I had already put the question to the outgoing Prime Minister, but it has not yet been completed. The press conference made it very clear that the internal travel advice was tightened up, but why is the advice for international travel not strengthened? Shouldn't it at least be mentioned in a press conference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u515	The Prime Minister has actually already answered it, but I would really argue that we should continue to make intra-European travel possible. The economic and therefore social damage is so incredibly great if we stop free movement. We must ensure that freedom of movement remains possible. To do that, we have those corona tickets. And to keep that adequate and up-to-date, we have added the booster obligation. That is on the agenda with the European colleagues. You should have just given that booster in nine months. We think that is a sensible idea. At first I said "twelve months is fine too," but given the current situation we have to opt for a boost after nine months. We have to add that to the DCC obligation. Then we keep DCC as the tool to make it easy to travel within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u516	Here too, something goes wrong in communication. Despite these fantastic communication advisors, I'm not gonna keep getting it. When I read literally what the outgoing Prime Minister said in the press conference last week, it is travel advice: stay home as much as possible. That was pronounced. "Stay home as much as you can." If that's the advice, why don't we say: stay home as much as possible and don't travel internationally. I don't understand. So we can travel internationally, but we also have to stay home as much as possible. That confusion is with me. I don't understand why two opinions are given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u517	We simply took the OMT advice in this. "Stay home as much as possible" is indeed the travel advice for the interior. The OMT opinion also did not include travel advice within Europe. I really do not want to make all European travel impossible. That's so incredibly much trouble with border traffic and with all kinds of economic damage you shouldn't want. My own European consultation goes all the way digital. So do the Prime Minister's, I think. So, of course, you can see a lot of companies moving all the way to digital. They're doing digitally what digital can do. That is, of course, very sensible to do. It's about whether you want to dissuade the generic... totally. I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u518	Finally. I find it interesting that words are being put to me that I have not spoken. I am not saying that we should impose some sort of travel ban on Europe. I just don't get the advice. We know there's gonna be a Christmas vacation and people are gonna travel again. We're in a violent corona situation. We'll give you the advice to stay home. We want to prevent as many infections as possible. We say here in the Netherlands that we are suffering economic damage, but we do not even demotivate international travel and we do not even advise not to make them, because that gives economics. But all the things we do do also cause economic damage. So I do not think it is sufficient to give advice to people at the next press conference at least so as to include the word 'international'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u519	Let me say that, in itself, I think it is right that you should look at whether it could still gain strength in terms of consistency. Let me take the assignment with me. Actually, I get that. I am not saying that I am in favour of discouraging European travel. I think that the damage is so much greater than the epidemiological profit that I do not get wildly enthusiastic about it in advance. Which brings me to testing. Much has been said about the test capacity. Of course, there has been a lot to do about that. Fortunately, the GGD has managed to scale up really hugely. The capacity is now about 120,000 tests per day. Last week there was even a day with a capacity of 130,000, but let's assume 120,000. The number of tests has, of course, been below 100,000 for some time, over the days. If you look at the depletion of national capacity, we're at about 80% of the total capacity. It's been around 90,000 a day on average over the past week. With a capacity of 120,000 by now you would say: no problem. But that's not exactly the case, because there's a problem in the call center between 8:00 in the morning and 8:01 in the morning. In that one minute, 15,000 people call. Of course, there's really no call centre capable of taking so many calls at the same time. Press the redial button endlessly. Of course, that's what the whole system poaches through. Every morning the same thing happens. We now allow the people who are actually in the call centers for vaccination to help test in the morning, to get all the appointments made. We ask the people to make that test speech on coronatest.nl. That's pretty good, too. A number of improvements have been made on the site. That actually works really well. So we ask: put him there and don't call all between 8:00 in the morning and 8:01 in the morning. Because you don't have to. You can also call a bit later on the day or just the previous night. Well, you can do that, so just do that. The average is 80% and a number of regions are over 90%. Those are the regions where it is still quite difficult to get an appointment. That's where the friction is. There's an awful lot of work being done to scale it up. What we also do, and one of you mentioned it, is to see if we can actually make self-tests part of the overall test landscape. For that we have an action in preparation. I think that Friday's gonna go out the door. That communication needs to be triangulated and at once good, which is why I'm not going to improvise on that right now. It's just gonna be Friday. The money is still not structural, says Mrs Van Esch. Well, pretty good, because for the first two quarters of 2022 we have already made budgets available to the GGD. This gives them sufficient security to keep hiring people. It is true that this massive intensification of the booster campaign is now leading to more people being hired and more costs being incurred. Of course, we're just gonna pay for the G.D.D. If it is necessary to make additional resources available in quarter three and four, we will do so. Money really shouldn't be the problem, and it isn't. Aren't there too few test sites now? That's not my impression. There are a lot of test locations: 155 fixed and still a lot of mobile on top. It changes a little bit per region how many fixed locations there are, how many mobile, how big they are, and whether you can get vaccinated there. There's a bit of a difference. I don't think the number of locations is really bothering us right now. What does the Minister think of the observation of the Corona Behaviour Unit that people are more likely to test when they have a self-test in the home? I understand that, and that has also been the reason for the OMT advice to make self-tests, also given the best possible reliability, part of the test landscape. So we're gonna get to work on that. How can we ensure that the capacity of self-testing is in order, Mrs De Vries asks. And Mrs Westerveld adds that you actually need to make much more self-tests to avoid being available. Of course, there's no such thing as free, but there's no such thing as free. We are. To date, a total of 66.3 million self-tests have been purchased. Until 26 November, 41.5 million self-tests were distributed through education and child care. In addition, 1.9 million self-tests were carried out on social minima and vulnerable people, through the poverty fund and through food banks. This summer, 6.8 million self-tests were carried out on all households that ordered them and 2.2 million were distributed at the airports. From the tender for self-tests that is in a final phase, another 53.5 million can then be ordered, which are covered by that tender. With the new policy as we have established it, 50 million have already been allocated. Because Mr Slob wants to move quickly towards the schools, we have anticipated the entry of that tender. This is not entirely legitimate, but already 13 million additional orders have been ordered to ensure that education can be served quickly. In short, the millions are flying around you, literally and figuratively, in terms of self-tests, but also in terms of spending, my highly valued colleague of Finance finds. We like to do it, because we think that we should make those self-tests available as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u520	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u521	I would like to return to the Minister's remark that there are sufficient testing sites. In his letter he writes that there are 155 fixed locations and also mobile. On the one hand, we see that people support "tests on complaints" in themselves, but in practice it is a much lower percentage. This also has to do with accessibility. We have over 350 municipalities and I would nevertheless like to give the Minister a look at the accessibility of testing sites in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u522	Of course, we did the best we could. You are also in favour of concentrating covid care. If you try to organise your own test site in all 350 municipalities, it will also become fucking inefficient. What we want to do is put away huge numbers of tests, as if we were Unilever. That's what we do with a little power in a little big locations. You also want to have it close to home, hence the execution of your motion to also set up mobile test locations. That's kind of nice. Now what I'm asking the GGD to do is to run numbers and no more locations per se. Except in those 30 municipalities that we have said that the level of protection is so low and the level of contamination is so high, we have to do extra things. I promised that to Mrs Bikker. I will return by letter to what we are all doing there, otherwise the President will cut me off. Market forces. Are you ready to consider market forces? No. I'm gonna skip that one. On 1G we will come back in detail next week. You asked for creativity. I have a few days left to make the most of that creativity. You have already read my little enthusiasm from the letter, but I am going to tap into the maximum creativity in myself. I promise. Then deploy another type of testing. What we can bet, we bet. I'll leave it to the professionals what tests they'd like to use. We've talked more about the lollipop test, which the CDA has also started a number of times. It appears to have insufficient validity in order to be able to actually use it for diagnostics. That's kind of the point. It works quite a bit, but not enough to actually put it into the test streets at the GGD. Then the varia. Do we do anything to get innovative treatments on time? Yes. I'd like to say a few things about that. Firstly, we use all the medicines available for preventive use, such as preventive antibody treatments. Vaccines are also wonderful preventive treatments. In the early phase, outside the hospital, two drugs are coming from MSD and Pfizer. They both have pills like that. Of course, we'd like to use it. We'd like to ask the profession: what do you think you need it for, how do you want to put it into use, do you have fiduciary in it that you can start using it and how many do you think you want to have? We're having that conversation with the profession. Then we start purchasing. For MSD, we participate in the joint procurement procedure in Europe and also have our own procurement process. But we only have to see what the EEA thinks about this: what is the effect, what are the side effects? It's kind of a big deal. Is it the silver bullet? I honestly don't believe it. The people you meet in hospitals, especially the unvaccinated, have not usually been tested. They had to go to the hospital at some point, but have not been in an early stage at the GGD nor have they been able to report to the GGD in an early stage. In short, I wonder if you can really prevent a lot of hospitalizations. And the profession is wondering the same thing. Then about the early stage in the hospital. Ronapreve and Regkirona are drugs used there. I saw a message today about Ronapreve. Roche said: you have to order now, but we can't deliver until March. That is what we said at the time: it is too late, then we are going to buy an alternative. You can do that, too. In addition, we have the resources used in intensive care. I'm going to say one thing. All those pharmaceutical marketing departments are extremely assertive and also useful. Every single piece in the paper, I always think, "Why would that piece be in the paper?" This has not rarely to do with the idea that it might be something of a social reaction or perhaps a reaction in the Chamber, so that the Chamber says to the Minister: please buy that stuff. We want to keep looking at the effectiveness of these things, what the professional needs are for them and whether there is not also a competitor who actually has the same good stuff and can deliver even earlier. That is what we really continue to operate in, even in the phase of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u523	Before you continue, a final interruption by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u524	By the way, it was a justified remark by the Minister just now, about pharmaceutical companies. The Minister mentions different medications, but I asked in my speech if we could get a separate letter on the numbers of what was bought in, but also on the effectiveness. There the percentages sometimes differ. Can the Minister write that in a separate letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u525	Sure, with all the limitations that that entails. In terms of effectiveness, because the EEA has often not yet established this. In terms of numbers, because I'd rather not do that in a negotiation. Then we won't do that until we can actually say it out loud. I will update on this at the next progress letter. Mr Van der Staaij asks: why does the government not start already with the national procurement of treatments that are partly still waiting for approval? We are. European, but if the European does not hurry, we will do so nationally. We are actually doing exactly what other countries are doing. We'll ask the profession: do you really think you need it? The profession does not always think that this is an easy question to answer. Take that MSD pill. We should see how the EEA is going to advise on this. What's the effect? What are the side effects? I don't think you should ignore that either. I'm not gonna let that drug go off-label. I really want that assessment from the EEA. Mr Omtzigt had a question about the over-mortality analysis. I'd like to answer that with yes. I'm really gonna ask the statisticians, because this is really CBS work. This is real work for the people who are used to doing that. The point with these mortality rates is that the GDPD reports on the basis of reports. There could be some underreporting in there. Those notifications are up-to-date and are on the site. There may be some post-reports, but they're as up-to-date as possible. On our coronadashboard you actually see the last numbers there. In addition, we have the over-death reporting of the CBS. It's behind schedule. There's no other way. That report has been updated until the second quarter 2021. Today's excess mortality follows in a subsequent report from the CBS. I'll ask for a good explanation. I believe that is what Mr Van Houwelingen asked for. I'll ask CBS to do that explanation. Disinformation and the IGJ. Why is the IGJ so bright and sharp and so alert towards doctors spreading disinformation? That's because it's very bad when doctors spread disinformation. People rely on doctors and can rely on doctors. In the Netherlands it works as follows. The profession determines what an effective treatment is. The profession determines the leading and final state of science to which the profession has to behave. The profession is then included in a directive. The inspection will then be carried out by all doctors in accordance with that directive. If, for example, there is discouragement of vaccination, for the sake of disinformation, nonsense, then it is up to the inspection to express a warning against the doctor and then act if the doctor does not act after that warning. This could lead to a disciplinary case being started. It is very important for the IGJ to monitor compliance with the professional directives, because we can and can have confidence in our medical status in the Netherlands. And we'd like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u526	Two brief questions. Then where is the room for the professional autonomy of doctors? Although they may not agree with it, they apparently have to follow these guidelines as slaves. And most importantly, how can you have another debate? We have a lot of critical doctors in the country. You also know where they are, for example with the Doctors Collective. How can they still criticise them if they then get the inspection after them? You don't have a debate like that anymore, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u527	Oh, yes, I do. That medical profession is in constant debate. You have often asked questions about, for example, ivermectin. Ivermectin has been used in an experimental setting, also in the Netherlands. We've also talked about hydroxychloroquine before. A word that we haven't used in a long time, but debate after debate focused on hydroxychloroquine. That was also used in the Netherlands. But everything has been found to be unhelpful. It doesn't help and pretending it helps hurts health. So the profession has included in the directive that it is not helping. The latest state of science is that it doesn't help. Then it is also important that doctors do not then pretend that it would help. 'Cause that's just bullshit. It's just kidding people. If the inspection finds out that a doctor even outside the hospital is about, because that's what it's about in this case, says: such a cocktail of ivermectin and I know what would be a good idea and by the way you shouldn't take vaccination, it should of course be spit on his jacket. Actually, he needs to stop behavior immediately. If he doesn't, then of course the right to discipline applies, and luckily so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u528	So you're actually declaring a consensus between some of the doctors to be some sort of taboo, because not all doctors agree with that, which another group of doctors shouldn't criticize anymore. You're gonna get a hugely uneven playing field. You get doctors who are allowed to go to Op1 because they are against Ivermectin, but the doctors who are critical get the inspection after them. You don't have a public debate like that anymore, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u529	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The good thing is that we in the Netherlands attach great importance to the guidelines of the profession. That is different in other countries too. If the profession adopts a directive together, this will be done according to generally accepted scientific standards and to the latest state of science. If that is the directive, then everyone should abide by it. It is not the case that there are all kinds of different groups with different views. You have an overwhelming majority of 99.9% and an enlarged minority of 0.1%. That's about the ratio. I'm very happy with an inspection that's strict. I am certainly at this time, when disinformation is already lurking, of course, and for very people the reason that they are doubting vaccination, which has put them in hospital. I am very glad that we have an inspection at this time that is firmly on top of that and those doctors who would not abide by the Professional Directive spit on the cardigan. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u530	I have one more question for the Minister. I see that there is a lot of confusion about this, including on social media. The Health Inspectorate doesn't do that on behalf of the VWS Ministry, let alone the minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u531	No, the inspection is autonomous. The inspection maintains autonomously on professional directives of the sector itself. That's how it works. It's beautiful, isn't Then there's the mask study. I've been looking into that for a while. This study was published in the British Medical Journal. This has been accompanied by an editorial which makes a number of comments. That editorial says this is just one random controlled sample. It was too small to make a reliable assessment of the effect. That's what the editor says about the magazine in which this was posted. Other studies are appointed, but they are not included in the study. For hand washing, for example, a 53% reduction, albeit not significant, is also found. That number is very unlikely based on the current state of science. How exactly 53% of the study can be explained is not easy to say. The main message is that such measures may have a modest effect on hand washing, ventilation and mouth caps, but that their individual value cannot be determined without checking, or actually abstracting, for confusing factors or "confounders'. According to this editorial, it is very unlikely that mouth cap use can limit infections by 53%. I say that mouth caps can certainly help. That's the point. In this crisis you can rarely say: it is either this or that. It's always a set of factors that make us safer together. Hoods should definitely play a role in that arsenal. Mr. Chairman. This brings me once again to the end of the first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u532	Thank you. I'm gonna check it out. I think Mrs Westerveld had two more interruptions left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u533	A relevant question in my speech was whether we have enough knowledge here and whether all the considerations are well known to us to check whether the package of measures we are discussing today is sufficient to reduce the number of infections. I read in last weekend's OMT opinion: "These measures aim to prevent at least 20% to 25% of the contacts leading to virus transmission. This percentage is necessary to stabilise the number of new infections at a reproduction number of around 1.20 - 1.25." That means bringing the reproductive number around the R=1. A little further down in the press conference, I hear this Minister say that this package of measures brings us well below the R=1. I would like to ask him what that explanation was based on at the time. When I read the letter the next day, at least I couldn't read it back in the OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u534	It is based on the modeling of the OMT. I'll tell you exactly how this went. When we received the advice of the Outbreak Management Team to set up a lockdown from 5.00 to 17.00 hours, we said: but we are now on an R that is well above 1. It was at 1.18 the moment we had that meeting. Of course, we did not know what the package of measures of 12 November would actually do. We saw something of a stabilisation in the infections. Of course, we didn't know if it would actually bring down the R properly. We knew we couldn't take the chance and hope it would work itself out. Hope is always beautiful, but hope is not a strategy. So what we had to do was make sure that we knew "certainly" "certainly" between quotes, because it is very difficult to really know things for sure in this crisis "that we had to put together a package of measures that would do enough to actually bring us under the 1st. So we said to the RIVM: we really need to have enough margin from the modeling to make sure that this R is brought under 1. A lot depends on behavior. Very much depends on the heterogeneity of the build-up of the vaccination rate, which makes it really not so easy to say. That's why RIVM works with bandwidths. But it has been said: the expectation is that you reduce 25% to 35% of the contacts and you can assume that you are well below 1. This is how RIVM was formulated. I also shared it in the letter to the Chamber. Thus, we have also made transparent what the government's considerations have been. Is this really how it's gonna turn out? I think that the modelers of the RIVM will be the first to say: beware of pretending that the world is so horriblely makeable. This is the world in decline, because our behaviour is not so easy to predict, but also because modelling actually shows an increasing degree of uncertainty, especially because of the heterogeneity of the vaccination rate. What's that all about? You can suddenly get a lot more hospitalizations when the virus goes around in a pocket with especially many unvaccinated ones. We have seen this in a number of villages on the Biblebelt. That's what we see in the old city districts. If the virus goes around in such a neighborhood just as badly, you'll suddenly get a lot more hospitalizations out of that neighborhood. It's not easy to model. Modelling is based on a stable and gradually divided vaccination rate. But it's not that homogeneous at all. It's much more heterogeneous than you'd really like on the basis of the modulation. This partly explains the great uncertainty in the models. As a result, RIVM will be the first to say: beware, don't pretend that this prognosis has been completely carved into stone. But it is the "insurance," I say again in quotes, that we want to give ourselves: are we doing enough to bring that R under 1? Could you have done more just to be sure? That is a fair question and a real political question. For example, could you have said: let's close the schools anyway? That could have been done, but we did not make that choice on purpose, because you always have to take into account too; that is also the proportionality mission that we all have to bear in mind the damage you do through the measures against the virus. That is also a legitimate argument in a political weighting to say: no, we do not, and then we assume the expectation that RIVM will soon be well below 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u535	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u536	It was a very long answer, but I still don't get it. When I read the letter from the OMT, the OMT opinion, it says very clearly: this measure is necessary to stabilise the number of infections with the current reproduction number and to bring them around the number of infections. That reproduction number is now, of course, far too high, because the care is already under great pressure, so we have to bring that number down. In its opinion, the OMT literally states that more is needed to bring this clarity back. So you should do more. The cabinet takes over the measures taken by the OMT on a global basis. And then the explanation of the cabinet is: no, we are well below the reproduction number. I'm not taking that out of this letter. I haven't been able to read the 25% and 35% either. We don't know the RIVM models either. So then my question is to the Minister on which he based it at the time. Then where can we find the information to check what is being said now, to check what is working and not working of the package of measures before us, and whether this is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u537	This is a very fair question. Did you also put that question to Mr Van Dissel this morning? That is, of course, the one you need to explain how that is calculated. The RIVM uses two models, where the model used for this purpose is the transmission model. This is based on all contact moments and calculates the package of measures on the expected reduction of contacts, from which you can derive the expected reduction in the number of infections, because the infections occur in contacts. This is based on a certain build-up of the vaccination rate, on the vaccine effectiveness that may be decreasing and on compliance with behavioural measures. So all these variables are in that model. It is an extremely complex model, with more uncertainty surrounding it at this stage than in recent times. That's right. That makes RIVM itself quite cautious and very cautious. What have we done? On Wednesday, the OMT met as a matter of urgency. The OMT has devised and advised a combination of measures and it has started to calculate those measures over the Thursday. On Thursday we sat in the Catshuis on the basis of the OMT's draft advice, to determine whether we would accept this advice. Before saying that we are going to do it this way, we have asked for an assurance that this package of measures would bring us well below 1. The result of this modeling is, if it is right, also in the letter of the Chamber which we sent last Friday. That is the outcome of the modeling of Thursday's package. And that outcome is that it brings us well below 1. What's roomy under one? That is a reduction of 25% to 35%. That's the answer. So you should be able to get to an R that's well below 1. Whether that is actually going to happen, we will have to see for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u538	Then I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term response. We'll go straight to the second term. We've agreed that the appreciations will be in writing. If there is another question, I suggest that the directors also answer it in writing. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, enforcement. As far as we are concerned, compliance and control must be followed by enforcement, which must be adequate, rigorous and visible, not just on corona tickets and not just on entrepreneurs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that police and special investigators check that entrepreneurs check corona access cards and, for example, whether customers wear the mandatory mouth cap;]] [[noting that there have been several signs in recent weeks that compliance with the corona measures needs to be strengthened, as far too often corona access cards are not checked for non-compliance;]] [[noting that enforcers face difficulties in enforcement, inter alia due to lack of clarity in the enforcement mandate and administrative burden;]] [[calls on the Government to examine with interested parties how compliance, control and enforcement can be improved by removing obstacles, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u540	We expect this to work in mid-December. One final point, as far as I am concerned. We read a message that the Netherlands would have turned on the validity of the Corona Pass for the European Union and that it would go to nine months. We have, of course, had a discussion about this. The cabinet's commitment was different. I assume that no steps will be taken without discussion in the House of Representatives. I think it would be quite impactful if this were to be at nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u541	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u542	I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gynecologists and nurses in the Netherlands are alarming the number of unvaccinated pregnant patients with corona on the ic;]] [[Whereas women from pregnancy to childbirth are closely monitored in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the Dutch Association for Obstetrics and Gynaecology on how to improve information provision;]] [[calls on the government to contact the dome of the drugstore to ensure that information on vaccination is also provided for each pregnancy test sold,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1565]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u543	And Mrs Pouw-Verweij also belongs to the target group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of virus variants should be limited and restricted as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible to require a test on arrival in special cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this winter the Netherlands started relatively late with boosters and has problems with testing capacity, that there is a shortage of flu vaccines and that ventilation in many places, including schools, is not yet in order;]] [[calls on the Government to purchase additional flu vaccines for 2022;]] [[Calls on the Government to have a plan of action in place so that a full booster vaccination campaign can be launched in autumn 2022;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that as many educational institutions as possible are provided with good ventilation systems and CO meters in each class,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is concern and uncertainty as to whether or not the Christmas holidays start a week earlier;]] [[calls on the OMT to ask whether schools can remain open or close before the planned weighing time on 14 December, preferably by the week from 6 to 10 December at the latest;]] [[calls on the government to send the RIVM or the OMT to provide further support to the Chamber on the measures currently in force in schools, such as testing only group 6 and older, and mouth caps only in the hallway,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1566]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1567]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u544	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet eight mouth caps so effective that it lets children in primary school wear them all day long. That's more effective than opening a window, the right ventilation or CO meters. But when a Member of Parliament indicates here to use it more widely, it is suddenly not very effective. The same applies to the booster campaign. The Minister accelerates the booster campaign; the Minister wants everyone to participate in the booster campaign, because the booster campaign is very effective. But if we say here that this campaign would have been effective if it had been deployed in time, it is: no, no, no, no, it is not. I think this is a big discrepancy. It once again indicates that very often the government reacts too late. Mr. Chairman. I've got two more motions. They read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a curfew increases the number of home visits, while almost 80% of the known infections occur in home settings;]] [[noting that ventilation by 93% is the most supported corona measure, but with 45% by far not the most followed up;]] [[calls on the government to constantly stress the ventilation during its own communication during visits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to lift the 0% volume growth limit for hospitals by 2022 and to release sufficient funds for catching-up care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1569]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1570]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u545	Thank you. Thank you to the directors for the answers to the questions and for the commitment to return to a quantitative overview of medication in the next letter. I hope the Minister will be able to say something about the aggression in the care, so that he can come back to that in his letter. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on the concentration of corona care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas corona is expected to remain among us in the coming years and there is a good chance that care will continue to be burdened in waves;]] [[Whereas regular care should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[considers that corona care therefore urgently needs an innovative approach in the coming years;]] [[Whereas corona care can be organised more efficiently if this care becomes more concentrated;]] [[Whereas this could include the use of healthcare reserves, recently retired persons and, if necessary, care staff working temporarily and on a rotating basis in such hospitals, which would receive additional support;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that pilots of more concentrated corona care are launched as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1571]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions, a little much, but sometimes it has to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the OMT opinion often gives only one option for the measures to be taken at present;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the OMT for multi-purpose options, such as stabilisation or mitigation, in the form of advice requests, and to provide information on the impact of individual measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of care providers and that tackling workload and unnecessary bureaucracy is urgently needed;]] [[Whereas concrete solutions have been put forward from the workplace, including through the Nurse Minded manifesto;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with healthcare organisations and social partners, to explore as soon as possible how to promote support for healthcare professionals in the workplace, exploring at least the following possibilities:]] [[free childcare;]] [[sufficient free parking;]] [[full travel expenses;]] [[support for housing;]] [[support for the physical and mental (over) load that is high, e.g. through (low-threshold and free) access to physical therapy and psychological support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1572]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1573]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u547	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers are under severe pressure due to the persistent flow of patients;]] [[calls on the government to grant all healthcare providers a bonus of €1,000 in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Van Esch, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Agema, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1574]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u548	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I'm gonna stick to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are too many patients in all areas of care to be able to provide necessary care and risk further deterioration;]] [[Whereas this leads not only to illness and loss of loved ones, but also to a great deal of pressure on the care staff and delay major operations with major consequences for patients and families;]] [[Whereas, according to the OMT, the measures taken should at most stabilise the number of new infections, and the developments should be surrounded by additional uncertainty due to the new omikron variant and the precautionary principle;]] [[Whereas the virus needs to be reduced more rapidly in order to ensure necessary care;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures as soon as possible to reduce the number of infections such as the closure of non-essential sectors and the catering industry, and to maintain these measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u549	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is not in a position to take timely measures to combat the corona virus, such as scaling up testing and source and contact research capacity, launching the booster and vaccination campaign, and taking additional measures;]] [[Whereas different disciplines, such as behavioural research and medical ethics, are not sufficiently represented within the crisis structure;]] [[Whereas crisis decision-making, especially in the longer term, can contribute to a better response to the crisis;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, administrative working groups warn against the unpredictability of decision-making and OMT members contradict each other in public;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to evaluate the decision-making structure and propose a new crisis structure, and to inform the Court of Justice about it before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Van Esch, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1576]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u550	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u551	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u552	Thank you. The Prime Minister wanted to hear from us a number of measures. Well, here come a few. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers it important to take effective and scientifically-based measures;]] [[calls on the Government to provide free self-tests through pharmacies to people who cannot provide for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers it important to take effective and scientifically-based measures;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a prick bonus for unvaccinated people according to Swedish example,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers it important to take effective and scientifically-based measures;]] [[calls on the government to have all Dutch tested twice in a row,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers it important to take effective and scientifically-based measures;]] [[calls on the government to make the booster shot for vulnerable 60-miners early again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make a return bonus available to the 25,000 BIG-registered nurses who have left care together with a corona bonus for current employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Hijink, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Esch and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1577]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1578]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1579]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1580]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1581]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u553	And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the government to examine with OMT, RIVM and stakeholders whether closing the catering service of one week is epidemiologically necessary and to inform as soon as possible whether or not the Christmas holiday is being brought forward for a week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1582]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u554	On the first motion on self-tests for minima. I thought the Minister said that some 2 million self-tests have been bought and made available free of charge for minima. My question is: does GroenLinks have any signals that that is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u555	I heard the minister say yes. He also said, "Millions are being thrown." Of course, we also have millions of Dutch. For education, it is recommended to do a self-test twice a week. Even if you look at other opinions on self-tests, it certainly seems to me that that is sufficient, despite the fact that a number of million self-tests are being made available. We know that more tests lead to containment of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u556	As soon as I hear "more frequent testing," of course, I'll be wide awake right away. You see me all cheerful. I have a very small, factual question. In the last motion, Mrs Westerveld spoke about the Christmas holiday to be shortened. Is that the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u557	The question is to let you know as soon as possible if that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u558	The period till Christmas break? Make the Christmas vacation smaller or bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u559	The question is whether or not the Christmas holiday should be shortened as soon as possible, so that it becomes known as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u560	Don't you mean expand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u561	Oh, cut short. Bringing it forward, yeah. It's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u562	Ah. Then I suggest that the text be adjusted so that Christmas holidays grow instead of getting smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u563	I just said we're cutting him in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u564	Yes, thank you. Thanks to Mrs Bikker. It's late. I thought the text was very clear, but we're gonna change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u565	You can change the text and then submit it here again. That's right. It's sharp. Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions, so I'm gonna get right on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the passengers of two KLM flights from South Africa who landed at Schiphol Airport last Friday were in an undesirable situation due to the measures around the omikron variant;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should be prepared for the emergence of new suspected mutations of the virus;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with all stakeholders, to draw up a roadmap for the situation where urgent action is needed to slow down or prevent the spread of such changes in the Netherlands as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that non-essential shops may keep regular opening hours behind customs at Schiphol Airport;]] [[Whereas generic measures are necessary to reduce the number of infections;]] [[Whereas such an exception does not contribute to solidarity;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that non-essential shops close behind customs at 5 p.m., as the rest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Esch, Mr Westerveld, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuik, Mr Den Haan, Mr Paternotte and Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1583]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u567	And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM's behavioral unit is not part of the formal crisis structure, has never been invited to the Catshuis and apparently does not give advice but reflections;]] [[The government requests the RIVM behavior unit:]] [[provide advice and involve the opinions in the decision-making process on the corona measures;]] [[to integrate into the formal crisis structure;]] [[invite for conversations at the Catshuis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons, Mr Kikken and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1585]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister said that despite his initial reluctance, he might still get creative with more tests and 1G and so on. Of course, that encouraged me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry following the motion-bikker c.s. has developed some considerations around 1G;]] [[Whereas this development includes only existing or known test capacity based on diagnostic standards and not on monitoring standards;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore the possibilities for extending the current test capacity to LAMP equipment, production lines in stock and production lines in the compensating sector, and to incorporate these possibilities into the test policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Westerveld and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1586]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u569	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of VWS has antigen tests in stock, the expiry date of which is due to expire in the foreseeable future;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the antigen tests in stock can be used as well as possible at the Ministry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1587]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u570	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the development of classical protein vaccines has progressed so far that it offers a new opportunity for people who do want to be vaccinated, but not with a mRNA and/or vector vaccine;]] [[Whereas these vaccines, such as Sanofi, Novavax and Valneva, are not or very limited in the Ministry's vaccine portfolio and are not expected until spring 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to promote and, if possible, bring forward the availability of protein vaccines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Paternotte and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1588]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u571	Thank you. I've got five seconds. Then I would like to thank the directors very warmly for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u572	Thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u573	Yes, thank you. Four brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that investigations carried out by officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Change show that the lockdown cost more than 520,000 years of life at the beginning of 2020;]] [[noting that at the time the officials in question did not recommend a lockdown;]] [[calls on the government to launch an investigation to find out why a lockdown was carried out at the time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of ICI personnel has fallen by 200 in the last year;]] [[noting that absenteeism among care workers has increased from 5% to 10%;]] [[Whereas sufficient care staff is of the utmost importance for the functioning of the Dutch care system;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the wages of health care workers and, in particular, ICI staff in a structural manner and to develop a plan to attract and train more care workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1589]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1590]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u574	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas European Commission President Von der Leyen today called on EU Member States to consider a COOVID-19 vaccination obligation;]] [[Whereas a vaccination requirement for COVID-19 exceeds all limits;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude a vaccination requirement for COOVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1591]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u575	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Corona Policy has a very profound impact on the lives of Dutch people;]] [[noting that there is a great deal of divisiveness about measures within society;]] [[calls on the government to submit to the Dutch people, by referendum, major corona measures such as the introduction of a vaccination obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1592]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three and I'm gonna start fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a major health-care attack;]] [[Considering that the increasing hospital occupancy due to corona virus infection, combined with the increasing outflow of care personnel, results in delay and in some cases also adjustment of care, including life-saving operations;]] [[Whereas the current epidemiological situation (almost) does not allow for the catching-up of delayed care and may lead to the postponement of further care;]] [[Whereas there is no concrete plan to make up for delayed care;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a delta plan to make up for delayed care, to take account of the different scenarios for the course and to inform the Court of Justice before the ceremony,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this pandemic requires a minimum of medium-term planning with different scenarios;]] [[having noted that several countries have planned up to a minimum of Q2 of 2022 with different scenarios;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt this example and at least until Q2 2022 to present to the Chamber a plan with different scenarios at the latest before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuik, Mr Hijink, Mr Simons, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Den Haan and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1593]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuik, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Den Haan and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1594]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u577	Last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of FFP2 mouth nose masks is effective in limiting the transmission of the corona virus and thereby prevent additional absence of care personnel due to corona virus infection;]] [[In the following OMT opinion, calls on the Government to involve the use and the need for the broad use of FFP2 mouth masks in the prevention of infections under the foot-and-mouth disease and thereby the protection of care personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons, Mr Bikker, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Kuik, Mr Den Haan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van Esch and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1595]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u578	In time!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u579	Very nice! Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u580	Madam President. I'd like to confine myself to one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a growing group of covid patients uses an oxygen supply in the home situation;]] [[Whereas the supply of oxygen to corona patients at home and to other patients should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures as soon as possible to prevent such a shortage, paying particular attention to the provision of sufficient additional emergency supply of oxygen concentrates and, if necessary, the concentration of care for corona patients in need of oxygen at home, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bikker and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1596]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u581	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u582	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u583	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an evening lockdown for the sports sector is disastrous in practice and that many millions of Dutch people do not have time to play sports through school and work during the day;]] [[noting that, according to several researchers, virus transmission does not or hardly take place in the outdoor air;]] [[Whereas organised sport takes place largely in the evening in the form of trainings and lessons;]] [[believes that sport is an essential part of the solution to the corona crisis and not the problem;]] [[calls on the government to withdraw the night lockdown for outdoor sports in order to give the Netherlands the opportunity to continue to work actively on physical and mental health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sports and exercise have a positive effect on the immune system and general health;]] [[believes that sport is an essential part of the solution to the corona crisis and not the problem;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the opening hours of gyms and sports clubs in which sports are held to 8 p.m.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sports centres are not essential and mortgage advisory agencies are;]] [[considers that a sports centre is essential for general health as opposed to mortgage advisory agencies;]] [[calls on the Government to review the list of essential and non-essential services taking into account the impact on public health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a delay in the provision of care;]] [[Whereas non-contracted independent clinics and healthcare institutions have the capacity to provide catching-up care;]] [[calls on the Government to allow non-contracted independent clinics to provide catching-up care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Den Haan, Mr Agema, Mr Van Haga and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1597]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1598]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1599]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Den Haan, Mr Agema, Mr Van Haga and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u584	Last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, as of 1 February 2022, fines will be paid in Austria to all over 12 years of age who do not wish to be committed;]] [[states that in the Netherlands a fine will never be attached to the choice not to be vaccinated, as is the case in Austria and Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Agema, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1601]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u585	Sorry about the seven seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u586	We'll rip it off next time. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u587	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several parties have offered to assist in the booster campaign;]] [[Whereas 600 million vaccines are ready to be pricked;]] [[Whereas there is no time to waste and high-risk groups should be given a booster as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to identify which organisations, such as associations of medical students and medical assistants, can assist in boostering, and to come up with a plan to deploy these organisations as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the booster campaign started too late in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas there will certainly be a further booster campaign;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the plan of approach to this booster campaign, to use the lessons learned for the roadmap for the next booster campaign and to have it ready as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several pharmaceutical companies are placing promising antiviral medicines on the market;]] [[Whereas such substances are effective if they are taken quickly after detection of the infection;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for infected people or their roommates to go outside to pick up those medicines;]] [[whereas not everyone has a social network;]] [[Whereas a plan of action is being developed to get these products to the patient as soon as possible after approval;]] [[calls on the Government to develop appropriate logistics in its approach in consultation with pharmacies in order to bring these resources to the corona patient in a responsible manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several pharmaceutical companies are placing promising antiviral medicines on the market;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is awaiting the approval of the EEA;]] [[Whereas these funds are already used in other countries;]] [[calls on the Government not to await the approval of the EEA and, through a bilateral procurement contract, to purchase and deploy these funds to a sufficient extent as soon as possible, so that the most vulnerable can be treated with them and are at a significantly lower risk of hospitalisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kicken, Mr Kuzu, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Esch, Mr Simons and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1602]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Esch and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1603]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Esch and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1604]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Agema, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1605]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u588	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sports make people more resilient and healthier;]] [[Whereas healthier people are essential, in particular during a pandemic;]] [[Whereas outdoor sports do not or hardly contribute to the spread of COOVID-19;]] [[calls on the cabinet to qualify the outdoor sports sector as an essential sector, starting in the current lockdown and beyond,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sports make people more resilient and healthier;]] [[Whereas healthier people are essential, in particular during a pandemic;]] [[Whereas the sector itself may take measures to ensure safe indoor sports;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to consult with NOC*NSF on the sports that can safely take place inside,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of care staff;]] [[noting that it is a requirement for BIG registration to achieve language level B1;]] [[noting that pupils following a vocationally assisted learning path (bbl) work at the same time in the care sector;]] [[Whereas European healthcare professionals want to work in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas these people do speak English;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to set up a reduced BBL course, aimed at language level B1, for foreign certified nurses, so that they can immediately relieve the burden of care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is lagging behind in distributing the booster shot;]] [[noting that a limited number of sites have been designated for the booster shot;]] [[noting that mayors are also crisis managers;]] [[Whereas there are mayors who indicate that they can arrange vaccination in the short term together with the GGD;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to facilitate directly (administrative) support for the booster campaign in crisis situations such as these, such as people, resources and municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1606]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1607]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1608]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1609]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u589	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet agreed that the policy strategy on corona had opted for the "controlling" of the virus;]] [[noting that "checking out" means that the virus should be able to spread as long as hospital capacity allows, with group immunity as therefore;]] [[noting that the aim of the policy strategy is not to contain and prevent contamination as much as possible;]] [[whereas a recent KPMG report notes that in the Netherlands more than 30,000 people died from COVID-19 on the basis of CBS's excess mortality data, and that this is significantly more than in similar countries, such as Denmark, Finland and Norway;]] [[Whereas the KPMG report also confirms that the difference in performance is largely due to the chosen Dutch policy, whereby the precautionary principle has not been applied time and time again and the cabinet has also had too little regard for the health effects of long covid;]] [[Whereas in recent weeks the policy chosen has once again led to a new wave, causing hundreds of thousands of infections and hundreds of deaths, and has caused code black in the care;]] [[noting that this strategy has caused enormous physical, financial and mental damage to the economy, working people, people at risk, young people and many others;]] [[noting that the government did not use this strategy to contain the virus and thus failed to comply with the constitutional obligation to protect public health;]] [[rejects the corona strategy of the virus;]] [[calls on the government to break this strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1610]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u590	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sports are good for health;]] [[Whereas healthy people are less likely to become ill;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt sport activities from corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are hardly any infections outside;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt outdoor sports from corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to exempt children's swimming lessons from corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to work as soon as possible to increase the number of people starting training as a nurse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas healthy young people are hardly at risk;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the vaccination regime, to stop vaccination of healthy young people and to offer the coronabooster prick on a voluntary basis only to the risk group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1611]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1612]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1613]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1614]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1615]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u591	It is not so much a question to Mr Van Haga, but it strikes me that more or less the same motions are tabled by Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Kuzu. We've got about 50 now. I find that quite a lot after one debate. I'd like to make the call to see what you can put together. The amount of motions we sometimes file doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u592	That seems to me to be a good appeal: more cooperation and fewer motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u593	I totally agree with that, but the motions are not the same. On parts, they're really different. We try to work together and sign over and over again, but the motions are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u594	I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u595	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I hope that in the calculations on Friday we understand why the OMT says that there is 20% to 25% reduction and the government 25% to 35% reduction. That makes all the difference whether you're around an R of 0.8 and you're going down fast or you're going down around 1 and you're going down forever on code black. I am glad that we are no longer seeking herd immunity and I do not want to hear the word or variants of that from the government either. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the past year all the retired Foreign Ministers (two times), Foreign Trade, Defence, Economic Affairs and Climate (two times) and Infrastructure and Water State (for reasons of function elsewhere) have been replaced within a few days, except Minister Van Ark, which means that since July there has been no Minister for Medical Care, which includes hospitals;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a Minister for Medical Care within one week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that according to the CBS 800 to 900 persons more died per week than expected in the past two weeks;]] [[noting that RIVM reports that approximately 300 people have died from COVID-19 in the past two weeks;]] [[Whereas it is unclear what other causes are behind this high excess mortality;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an academic study as soon as possible to investigate the reasons and causes of over-death until November 2021, and to inform the Court thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1616]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1617]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u596	Let me conclude by saying something. I wasn't quite sharp. My point was that elementary school students in upper education are expected to put on a mouth cap when they move around the school. This is clearly expected to be very effective. In this building, we have to wear a mouth cap there and not a mouth cap here. This too is expected to be very effective. The moment you say "do it everywhere in inner spaces" is said: that is really ridiculous. I hope that at the end of this debate we will be able to get closer to each other on these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u597	Thank you, Mrs Agema. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-7.u598	We have agreed that tomorrow morning the appreciation of the motions will come, so that we can vote on it tomorrow. I would like to thank the directors, thank the Members of Parliament, thank the people who are still in the public gallery and thank the viewers at home. I'm closing the meeting.
