ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	Welcome to the Foreign Minister and welcome to my colleagues. We are going to deal today with the foreign affairs budget, at least the first time on the part of the Chamber. But before we begin, I would briefly like to draw attention to someone to whom I would like to address. And Theo, that's you! You're probably freaked out right now, because in the spotlight, you'd rather not do that, and your work is, of course, mostly behind the scenes. But if I'm going to speak to you briefly, I'm not going to do it for no reason. Over 35 years of service in the Lower House. You're retiring this week, so this is also your last budget handling of the State Department. I know you're not leaving unspoiled, and neither does we. That's why I want to pay you a well-deserved tribute here on behalf of the entire Chamber. In 1987 you came to work in the Lower House. '87, that was a really long time ago. You started out as a scientific assistant in the documentation service and went on to become a deputy clerk. You participated in the Temporary Committee on Military Broadcasting Decisions, and the Parliamentary Survey on Srebrenica. Now you've been the clerk of the Foreign Affairs Committee for years. And I've been told that you've managed to prevent many diplomatic riots. Whichever they are, we'll never know, because your work is behind the scenes. Very often, officials appear in the newspapers, and very often it is the Registrar of Foreign Affairs. In the AD of July 8th this year, you said you didn't mind moving to B67 at all. You said sober, and that's how we know you: "In the new place is probably coffee." You are, as I said, an important man behind the scenes; alert, calm, but not a cock the front. Unless we're having a good time with the coworkers, you're in the lead. You will then tell juicy anecdotes from your long career, in your unmistakable beautiful North Limburg tongue trap, where the word "become" still becomes "worren" after all these years of The Hague. "Worren." I can see you saying it even now. All crazy on a stick, dear Theo, we're gonna miss you. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to express my sincere thanks for all the work you have done for us and for the House of Representatives. Thank you! We shall now proceed to the budgetary procedure. Enjoy it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join you in the warm words you expressed to our Secretary of State. I underline it and I look forward to his memoirs! Mr President, I now turn to this debate. A Belarusian Erdogan; that's Mr. Lukashenko. Like the original Turkish version also born in 1954. A power politician who now knows how to expose the EU's weakness flawlessly. So there are tens of thousands of migrants at border gates on their way to a welfare state like ours, because our country for migrants is the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. And that is a result that has been the result of many years of left-wing policy. We have also been affected by the open borders and EU policies in this migration crisis, and yet the cabinet calls the EU essential for our prosperity and security. But it is exactly the other way around, I say: the EU is part of the problem. And the PVV also looks with concern and distrust at the plans for a Strategic Compass, whose needle only points to more EU. The plans are specifically about an EU army or an EU flit force. Formally, it would only be applicable on the basis of a unanimous decision by all Member States. That is exactly what we already have with the so-called EU Battlegroups, which are also not functional at all. It is therefore not logical that an EU flier should now be rigged with the same defect. So I read in The Telegraph, looking left or right for a goat path to avoid that unanimity. Military people who are about to be deployed, without the unanimous support of Member States, will, I fear, become a real option. The question is: what does the Netherlands think of that idea? Is the Netherlands going to block these plans or not? I would like a response from the Minister. Then there is human rights policy. That is a key element of the government's foreign policy. Sanctions must also further shape this policy. That is why the EU's sanction regime is being praised by the Netherlands as something beneficial and proudly called a geopolitical toolbox. But that coffin is not opened in all cases that would lend themselves to it and not all tools are used either. Turns out what? The Netherlands and the EU hide behind the curtains when it comes to, for example, a man like President Raisi. And the question is why. Why is the President of Iran being kept so out of the wind? Why are sanctions against that mass murderer not even considered and what does this do with the credibility of human rights policy? And I can go on like this. Erdogan too has been avoiding sanctions for years and that cruel, warlike president of Azerbaijan is the same. So that human rights policy does not work well, it even sometimes fails hopelessly. My proposal is: do not mention the concept of human rights policy anymore as a core element of our foreign policy and exchange that last term for something else, for example a core element that is 100% in the interests of the Netherlands, namely the return of foreigners without residence status. I'll explain why. As everyone sees and hears, sending it back is not a good thing, because the countries of origin do not cooperate. And that's a vicious circle that needs to be broken. Of course, this is not going to work if the Netherlands is only taking care of the whole issue, and if we leave the whole issue to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. The problem is too great for that. My proposal is: put refuse countries such as Morocco, consistently under pressure with more attention than ever before, behind the scenes, diplomatically but also, if necessary, in the spotlights of international meetings. Threaten measures, such as closing consulates, introducing or increasing visa requirements or their conditions, prohibiting direct flights between a denied country and the Netherlands and, if necessary, carrying out those threats. Do not wait for the EU. At this point, the PVV wants action, action, action, to speak with our Prime Minister, especially the foreign minister. Is he prepared to take over my appeal and turn the expulsion of foreigners without status into a new and fresh core element of our foreign policy? Then I come to another subject, the Middle East. The point I wish to make concerns the UNRWA refugee organisation. Well, actually, it's not a refugee organisation, because it's not there to help refugees build a new life, but to hold them as hostages for the political purposes of the Palestinian Authority. While, for example, the real refugee organisation UNHCR since 1950 has helped some 50 million refugees to come to a new life and build a new life under the responsibility of those UNRWA some 726 Arabs who were still talking about in 1949 have grown to 5.7 million people who are still being held hostage by UNRWA. If UNRWA were to apprehend the UNHCR definition of a refugee, it would only cover 20,000 people. In essence, UNRWA is "the worst thing that has ever happened to the Palestinians," and so others say. The aim of UNRWA is to maintain the problem and we simply should not support it. We must not pay for this either, rather than giving UNRWA more money, it must be lifted. We should not support that political objective. I urge the Minister not to support UNRRA in any way. That historical mistake just needs to be cancelled. Then Iran, chairman. Does the government still have any legitimate faith in this intended nuclear agreement? We know that Iran is gathering knowledge, the supply of enriched uranium is increasing and the warning of the International Atomic Energy Agency is being ignored by Iran. My question is: how will the Netherlands address these worrying developments? Does the Minister wish to raise this issue in the EU, for example, which is a party to that nuclear agreement? Will the Netherlands also cooperate with other countries to take a firm and clear stance in these negotiations on that nuclear agreement? I would also like to warn against the Iranian salami tactics. It is only aimed at raising money, removing sanctions and delaying the establishment of a real agreement. And under a'real agreement', of course, I understand an agreement that also effectively prevents Iranian possession of ballistic weapons or hypersonic missiles. I would like a response from the Minister on all these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs. Mulder has a question. I just forgot to mention in all the commotion about the farewell speech to our clerk that I wanted to propose six first-term interruptions. So this will be the first for Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	I heard Mr De Roon of the PVV at the beginning of his speech saying that Europe is not necessary, but when he talked about Iran at the end, there had to be cooperation at European level. How does Mr De Roon rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	Well, that's very simple. The EU is a party to that atomic agreement. Those are the ones who are now negotiating whether and how this should be brought back to life, not the Netherlands. It is a fact that the EU is in the process of doing so. That is why I call on the Minister to use this instrument and to work within the EU to ensure that a clear, firm and tough negotiating tactic is applied towards Iran. We cannot allow ourselves to be fooled by the way they usually operate. That's what I want to argue. Mr. Chairman. What is completely excluded from our foreign policy is the role of state actors in financing and stimulating Islamic terror. A coherent strategy to condemn, let alone tackle, those countries that do so is lacking. Iran's policy is an example of this. Iran is currently raging the Middle East virtually unhindered, increasingly with drones delivered to malicious militias and terror groups, such as Hamas, Hezbollah and woodhis, groups that are in danger of seriously disrupting the Middle East with those drones. It is therefore also in our own interest to act against the proliferation of Iranian drones. The Americans already do that with sanctions. Such an action also wants to see the PVV from the Netherlands. Can the Minister pick that up? Giving Drones to terrorists is just so wrong. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to Afghanistan. I'd like to be brief about that. I would like to know from the Minister what the position is on the Taliban's request to the West to release the Afghan bank accounts. As far as PVV is concerned, we shouldn't do that. We don't want to do business with the Taliban, so we don't have to fight them. I would like to know whether the Dutch banks are currently holding Afghan funds, and if so, what amounts are involved. Is the European Central Bank also holding Afghan money, if any? And how much? I ask all this in the light of my motion adopted by this Chamber, which calls on the government not to regard the Taliban as a legitimate representative of Afghanistan. It seems logical to me, in line with that, not to give that illegal club access to the money either. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister again. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna end up with Pakistan. The government praises that country for the evacuations of Afghans. As far as PVV is concerned, the Dutch attitude should be different from Pakistan: not prices, but different. After all, Pakistan is perhaps the number one reason why that twenty-year adventure in Afghanistan has failed horribly. Terrorists are often warmly embraced in Pakistan and find a safe home. We see that again in the past period, because Pakistan has now started hugging and exonerating Islamic terrorists from the TLP organisation. Even 2,000 of those creeps were released from prison. Rizvi, the leader of that terrorist group, was also removed from a Pakistani terrorist list. Just for the Acts: Mr. Rizvi is the terrorist who issued a fatwa against Geert Wilders, which is why Muslims around the world now want to kill him. In 2018 Rizvi also wanted to see an atomic bomb thrown on the Netherlands, because of a few Mohammed cartoons. So certainly not a fresh figure, I'd say. I would like to know how the Minister assesses these developments in Pakistan. I also want to know what he thinks the security implications are. After all, 2,000 terrorists have been released. With that fatwa still fresh in my memory, that seems to me to be a rather problematic situation, for my group chairman, of course, but also for the Netherlands and the rest of the world. Now I've only talked about the TLP, but a similar story can be kept about another terrorist organization in Pakistan, TTP. It is being embraced again and it is being given access to talks with the government again. A Pakistani lunatic came to our country earlier to kill Geert Wilders. Fortunately, he was intercepted and sentenced to ten years in prison. But this is precisely why I expect the government to be more alert to what is now happening in Pakistan. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees it that way, and not just him, but all the authorities responsible for security in our country. Are they all aware of what is happening in Pakistan? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. There is a question for you from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	One more question, though. I have listened carefully to what Mr De Roon has said, but I actually missed a few elements, and specifically one element: Russia. I actually missed any comment about Russia. This is of course something that the PVV has characterized since Mr Wilders picked up his friendship pin in the Kremlin: a completely uncritical attitude. We are now seeing what is happening in Belarus, sponsored by Russia. We see what's happening at the border with Ukraine. We see what's happening here in this country. I would ask Mr De Roon, on behalf of his party, to take a clear stand on what Putin is doing in our country and in our region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	When it comes to Belarus, Belarus itself and Lukashenko are the actors who cause mischief, who cause mischief, and which threaten us in essence. There is often talk of a hybrid war. Yes, it's not a real war, because no weapons are used, but poor people, pathetic people who have a miserable existence elsewhere in the world, are simply used as an instrument to attack the West. That is the crux of the matter. That is what Belarus, Lukashenko, is initially doing, but we can all suspect that I am also doing so on his own. That is why Belarus has taken action to get all these people to the border in such a short time... It does not seem very logical that Belarus could do so on its own; it seems logical that it has had help with that. We already know that there are many flights through Moscow. I therefore believe, like Mr Sjoerdsma and probably others, that Russia plays a role in this. That is a bad thing, and we must therefore strongly condemn it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	I call Mr Brekelmans of the VVD. It's his maiden speech today. Yeah, yeah. Without interruptions, Mrs. Piri. Whole A4's with Q&A's for the VVD can be quietly turned into a clot, because it's going to be very quiet for now. In the second term, you can expect a lot of fireworks, Mr. Brekelmans. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. Exactly eight months ago, it was a special day. It was the day of the elections on which I and we were all elected to the Chamber. When I saw the results, I jumped from my chair in the hospital. Beside me was my girlfriend. She was recovering from severe pregnancy poisoning. A few halls away was a very little girl. She was one day old, more than ten weeks prematurely born, she weighed only 1 kilo and through all the snakes that were in her body, you could hardly see her lying there. Today we're eight months away. I have had a lot of debates over the last few months, tabled motions and talked in all sorts of places about everything that is going on in the world. But in that same period our daughter Féline learned to breathe herself, learn to drink herself, learn to eat herself, she has grown eight times as heavy and has made countless people very happy with her sweet smile. That makes me so proud. And that's an achievement that no politician can match. A year before, we had moved back to Brabant, because I had our children and now Féline as good a youth as I have. Like this minister, I grew up in Kaatsheuvel. In addition to many footballs, this often meant the Efteling. As the son of a elementary school teacher, I tried very hard at school. I quickly noticed that hard work is rewarded and that it offers new opportunities over and over again. I could go to college first in my family. First at the University of Tilburg in a well-known environment, then in London and later even at Harvard. From Kaatsheuvel to Harvard; that symbolizes the Dutch ideal for me. By doing your best and making choices freely, everyone in the Netherlands can live up to their ambitions. That Dutch ideal has been under pressure a number of times in my life. First in the early 2000s, when the internet bubble burst and there was a stock market crash, and that also skipped to a crisis in the Netherlands and as a 16-year-old I experienced how my father's company was hit hard. Then in 2009, when there was a financial crisis that also skipped to the Netherlands and made it difficult for myself and many of my study friends to find a job at that time. And of course for the last year and a half with corona, which has forced everyone to give up freedoms. For me, the low point was that I had to wait outside in the hallway when the doctor told my girlfriend that she had severe pregnancy poisoning and our baby was barely growing at that time. For example, each of us has experienced its own moments over the last year and a half that have been very difficult. These examples have in common that if there is a crisis somewhere in the world or there is a threat, the lives of ordinary Dutch people can be hard hit. Whether they're entrepreneurs or people looking for a job or anyone affected by a pandemic. I mentioned these three examples from my personal life, but I might as well have mentioned the terrible attack on MH17 or the migration crisis in 2015. As a small and open country, we are vulnerable to crises and threats in the world. I therefore believe that our foreign policy should be aimed at protecting us from this. It should not be the case that eleven ministries are working day in and day out to make our country more beautiful and stronger and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is only focused on the rest of the world. Our foreign policy must also ensure that Dutch people are safe, have opportunities and can live in freedom. A foreign policy for the middle groups is needed to maintain the Dutch ideal, both now and for the generation of our daughter. Unfortunately, it is more necessary than before to protect ourselves from foreign threats, aggression and instability. Not so long ago, we thought that the world would continue to globalise, that more and more interlinks would bring us closer to the same values. We thought that we would less threaten each other's security and joint challenges if migration and climate were to resolve together. But nothing could be further from the truth. China is developing as a major system rival, Russia is intimidating and destabilising and the threat of terrorism continues to exist. At the same time, international law and multilateral institutions are becoming less and less accepted, the US is focusing on Asia and the European Union is too divided to make a fist in the world. All of this is reality. There's no way around this. This puts more and more pressure on security, prosperity and freedom for Dutch people. Our foreign policy will have to concentrate on this and find new answers to it. My first question to the Minister is whether he shares this analysis and whether he wants to reflect on it. In any case, I shall now be passing through these three issues of security, prosperity and freedom. And people are allowed to interrupt me by now. First of all, safety. The security threats to the Netherlands are numerous and diverse. We still see Russian tanks at the eastern border of Europe, even more than before. It is reported that 100,000 troops have been deployed on the border with Ukraine, at an unusual time in the year. My question is how the Minister points out this intimidation. Does the Minister agree with me that, as NATO, we must show that we can defend ourselves against this? If we show weakness, Putin will continue to play this out. That brings me to Belarus. What we've seen over the past few months is really unacceptable. Migrants are flown in from the Middle East and Africa by the Lukashenko regime and pushed across the border with the European Union. People are used as a political weapon, as part of hybrid warfare. It's simply horrible. The sad thing is that we saw this coming four months ago. As early as July, I tabled a motion to prepare new sanctions against these practices. And now we are four months away, and it had to come to a major crisis at the border to get the EU moving. Last Monday it was officially announced that sanctions will be imposed, but we do not yet know which ones will be specific. This new package must not be a weak bite. This situation at the border cannot continue for another four months. We need to get the regime wide by removing gaps in existing sanction packages, aligning EU sanctions with those from the US and the UK and extending them to state banks and telecom companies. On top of that, we need very targeted sanctions against organisations and individuals involved in this massive smuggling of human beings. Firstly, no more leasing European aircraft to the Belarusian airline Belavia, sanctions against all airlines that continue to cooperate, such as Turkish Airlines and the Russian Aeroflot. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are using Belavia as the most severe sanction, namely secondary sanctions. This not only punishes Belavia, but we can punish all organisations that work with them. This is how companies have to choose: either do business with Belavia or with the European Union. We need to isolate Belavia and use this demolition bullet under the sanctions. Every day that this crisis continues, there is one too many. I ask the Minister whether he shares this commitment and if not, what is his commitment in the European Union? And what will he do if the next few days show that the new sanction package is disappointing or does not have the desired effect in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	This is basically a maiden speech, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	No, you may interrupt!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	But the speaker himself indicates that he is jumping very hard for interruptions. I don't know if that's wise, but I'll give Mrs Piri the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I wanted to be the first to congratulate Mr Brekelmans on his beautiful maiden speech. And since he also invited questions, a question about Belarus. I hear an argument for harsh sanctions against dictator Lukashenko, and that is what my group shares. Last week, however, it became known that if you look at the trade relationship between the Netherlands and Belarus, despite four rounds of sanctions that have already been in place, trade flows will not decrease. I think it undermines precisely the purpose we have with sanctions, the isolation of this man. How's the VVD looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	I agree with Mrs Piri. She has asked good questions about this before. I find it very strange that the volume of trade to the Netherlands has not decreased. That can mean two things: whether the products we import are not subject to sanctions, or whether they are, but there are gaps in the sanction package that we have proclaimed. That is what I said in my speech. In my view, it is not the intention that if we want to touch certain sectors, then through constructions, through subsidiaries or through other routes that products can still be exported. So I'm just as critical of that as Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	I would like to be the second to congratulate Mr Brekelmans. Congratulations on his maiden speech and also on his personal approach. I'm really glad his wife's okay, and especially his little girl. Mr Brekelmans, Mrs Piri and I were quite often allowed to debate each other. We've also been on a trip together in the Baltic States. That was a real pleasure. But last week he was a little excited about the fact that a number of groups were not prepared to sign a letter drawn up by the Baltic States and Poland, among others. Everyone may be excited, of course, but that letter advocates adapting the legal framework in Europe. He may understand that my party is not blind to that. My question to Mr Brekelmans is then what legal adjustments the VVD intends to make to how we deal with foreigners along the borders of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think that we are really dealing with Belarus now with a unique situation. We have, of course, seen before that refugees travel far away, also a dangerous journey to Europe, there also crossing safe countries and then applying for asylum in Europe. This has been the case in recent years. But the fact that a country is now flying into refugees and using them as a means of exerting pressure is really a new situation. So you can see that Lukashenko is also using European asylum rules to put pressure on the European Union in this way. So I don't find it strange that you're also going to look at the legal frameworks you have to fight this. As a VVD, we are of course in favour of agreeing with countries of origin on reception in the region or with countries around those countries of origin to do so. If you make such agreements, you can also say: someone is reporting in Europe, but we are offering them a safe place somewhere else outside Europe. These kinds of constructions stand in the way of the current asylum rules. That is why we have been calling for a review of the European asylum system for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u20	I understand very well that the VVD is asking for very harsh sanctions, just like GroenLinks and the PvdA. A lot of parties in this Chamber do that. We are in favour of this, and I am curious to hear from the Minister what will be included in the fifth sanction package, if he can say so. What I don't understand is that the VVD is being blackmailed at the same time. We talk very easily about shelter in the region. It often involves millions of people, who take care of neighbouring countries. We in Europe have opted for an asylum policy. Why do we allow ourselves to be so easily impressed and intimidated by a dictator to question this immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u21	We are not questioning this now on the basis of what is happening in Belarus. We have been advocating reform of the asylum system for many years. I believe that GroenLinks also wants to change things in the European asylum system, albeit in a different direction than we would like. We see that a migration crisis like we had in 2015, with people coming to Europe massively, leads to all kinds of abuses. If you look at our asylum shelter, but also at the number of homes we have, you can see that this puts too much pressure on our society in this way. Moreover, the people who come here are not the most vulnerable refugees, because the most vulnerable refugees, which GroenLinks is probably also worried about, are left behind in the countries of origin because they cannot make that crossing. So there are several reasons to change the asylum system. That's what we've been thinking for years. This crisis is not the reason for this, but an additional confirmation that it is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. De Roon. You see it, don't you, you're getting all kinds of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yeah, "be careful what you wish for."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u24	I would like to add my congratulations to Mr Brekelmans for his maiden speech. It was a lovely speech. I thought so, too. I look forward to more of his considerations on foreign policy. I do have a question about Belarus. Mr. Lukashenko is like a kind of teenager who feels humiliated and offended by the previous series of sanctions. Instead of stepping back on the wrong road, he says: I'm throwing a shovel on top of it. When I try to estimate what kind of Mr. Lukashenko is, I see that this stays that way, especially since he knows someone behind him who also occasionally follows this line and is not displeased with him. There must be a solution to the problem Lukashenko is concerned with. He's in a swamp. He now has tens of thousands of people within his country that he can't go anywhere with, other than trying to get them out of Poland. If that doesn't work out, it's gonna bother him. I believe that a solution must be sought which will enable this problem of his to disappear again, without causing a huge loss of face. My question to Mr Brekelmans on this is whether he agrees with the PVV that the solution to the problem should not under any circumstances be that these people still come from Belarus into the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u25	I agree with Mr De Roon. I also agree with him that it has turned out that if you impose sanctions, a dictator like Lukashenko will change his behaviour immediately. I therefore call for more pressure to be put on them, in addition to wide sanctions, to stop this smuggling of human beings. In my view, it is certainly possible to put an end to this in a country such as Belarus if there are very strict sanctions. I agree with Mr De Roon that, at the time we decided to let people into Europe and actually open that door to the influx, this is a signal to Lukashenko that he can continue to do so and that he can do so on a larger scale. It is also a signal to other autocrats around Europe that this is a way of putting pressure on the European Union and that, if you do it long enough, the European Union will eventually cave in. I would find that a very dangerous precedent. It's Lukashenko's problem. I therefore do not think that we should grant asylum to this group in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u26	I am very happy to hear that, it is a clear position. I do not very much agree with Mr Brekelmans that further sanctions will help someone like Lukashenko. His loss of face is a very difficult matter for him. In fact, I think we should look for other ways to get him out of his swamp at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u27	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u28	I will give that to Mr Brekelmans to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u29	It was a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u30	I take that suggestion to heart. In response to that, I do think more pressure is needed. What I also found interesting is that last Friday Lukashenko said as a threat, "We're going to turn off the gas tap," and Putin then responded by saying, "We don't support that." In his struggle with the European Union, he can play his hand. But I do think we should show that we are not giving in to blackmail, that we are taking firm measures. In combination with this, you will also have to stay in conversation with Putin and with Lukashenko to talk about a way out of this. That can be done behind the scenes, but it doesn't mean that's the only solution. Those pressures and sanctions are also necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u31	On my side, too, compliments for the maiden speech. I would like to ask another question on this point. Mr Brekelmans can tell us what the VVD's position is on asylum and migration, but that has not really been so relevant since this morning. This morning we were able to read the draft governing agreement in the Volkskrant, where it says that as long as there are still inhumane situations at the borders of Europe as in Greece, but perhaps also in Poland, the Netherlands with a coalition of the willing that country must come to the aid of that country. That is going to be Mr Brekelmans' new position, if there ever is a coalition, yes. But does Mr Brekelmans share my view that the government agreement on asylum and migration is in the Volkskrant this morning, and that he must therefore change his position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u32	I do not, of course, go into leaked concepts and any compromises that are being made. I'm standing here as VVD spokesperson. Our negotiating commitment to the coalition is the VVD position, and, of course, compromises are being made on it. I am prepared to explain to Mr Van Dijk for years to come when the coalition agreement is in place, but I am not going to respond to concepts or things that would have been leaked in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u33	Continue with your maiden speech, because it still is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u34	Still, yeah. In addition to pressure on Belarus, the EU must continue to work on the countries of origin to ensure that countries in the Middle East and Africa do not allow this trafficking of human beings. We have heard positive reports in recent days that more and more countries are beginning to block this and that Iraq is the first country to be prepared to take migrants back. My question to the Minister is whether these messages are correct. Are the EU's efforts already leading to the desired result, or are new migrants still being flown in in recent days? After all, today we see that there are once again flights from the Middle East to Minsk. Is the Minister prepared to use harder leverage against these countries of origin if they do not want to block this smuggling of human beings and do not take back nationals, such as stopping trade benefits? We as the EU must dare to use our economic power. After all, Erdogan and other autocrats around Europe are watching. Then I go to another form of hybrid warfare and that's cyber. Of course, we must continue to make every effort to further strengthen our cyber capabilities, strengthen international cooperation and, where possible, come up with rules. At the same time, we cannot assume that it is enough. We need to be prepared for the worst scenario. What happens if the Netherlands is disrupted by a major cyber attack from, for example, Russia or China? Then do we know what needs to be done? How does the State Department react at such a time? What diplomatic means are being deployed? And how do we ensure that we come to a common response with our allies in no time? In short, are there plans with different scenarios ready when this happens? Are there simulations and is the State Department well connected to this? We must avoid being attacked by cyberattacks and the Foreign Office is only beginning to think about the correct response in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr Dassen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u36	First of all, of course, congratulations to Mr Brekelmans. I would like to go back to the previous point, because I expected Mr Brekelmans to say something about the humanitarian crisis that is taking place there and how we should deal with it. Of course, I hear him talking about sanctions. I agree that we need to use it properly to prevent people from being abused in this way. But I do wonder what the VVD intends to do to put an end to the humanitarian crisis that is now taking place at the border with Poland. Tonight there are water cannons aimed at families. At the same time, we read stories that migrants are being set up against the border police. That could get out of hand, too. I wonder how the VVD looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u37	Of course there is a dilemma here. I'm not gonna deny it or wave it away, in the sense that the situation these people are in is pathetic. Only that does not mean that we in the European Union must now take on this problem. It is a problem that Lukashenko himself created, by flying these people in and taking them to the border. In the end, he is also responsible for the humanitarian situation there. So I do not think that we should accept this problem and provide shelter in this way, because, as I said earlier in reply to Mr De Roon, if we do that, we know for sure that this flow is going to increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u38	I believe that we could also set up procedures in such a way that we can quickly look at each other, within the European Union, whether someone is entitled to asylum, yes or no. Then we can take in people who are entitled to this and send back people who are not entitled to it. I think that could be a good solution. What I find a little shocking about Mr Brekelmans' answer is that he says 'it is not our problem, so we should not interfere', while human rights are one of the key elements of our foreign policy. I think we have a very big problem here with how we deal with human rights. Shouldn't we be dealing with that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u39	I also indicated at the beginning that there is a dilemma here. My main problem is that if we allow the group of people at the border to go into procedure and provide shelter for it, we will open the door in that way. Then it is not just these people and you are almost sure that there will be thousands, tens of thousands and perhaps even more people. I am also concerned about the people who might be coming after them. In my view, it is now simply the first priority to ensure that this situation stops. It must be clear to Lukashenko that it is his problem. You also see, in my view, Mr De Roon said that just now people are going back to Minsk and that Lukashenko is now dealing with the problem of what to do with those who do not want to try to cross the border for a third or fourth time. In the end, he will have to find a solution to this and hopefully make agreements with countries of origin, so that there will be flights back there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u40	Proceed, Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u41	Furthermore, in line with my predecessor Sven Koopmans, I would like to continue to draw attention to the risks of new weapons of mass destruction. I am pleased that the Netherlands wants to play a leading role in this and organise an international conference on new technologies and arms control in 2022. Finally, on the subject of security: terrorism. Terrorist attacks remain potentially a major security risk for Dutch people. It is therefore good that the Netherlands is pursuing a counter-terrorism policy internationally, but I was shocked by the conclusions of the recent IOB evaluation of our counter-terrorism policy. This showed that we are not so well aware of the impact of the projects we are doing, and that we do not know very well what does and what does not work. On such an important subject, I find that worrying. That is why I ask the Minister to respond to this. In relation to terrorism, I have a specific question about Afghanistan. Even after the withdrawal, the Netherlands, the United States and NATO indicated that it remains an important priority that Afghanistan should not become a free haven for international terrorism. This should now be tackled at a distance, with so-called "over the horizon" capacity. However, I do not read anything about this in the last Afghanistan letter. I would ask the Minister if we are going to be able to put this into practice at the moment. If so, how? And is this enough? Then I come to the second priority, and that is our prosperity. For decades, we have increased our prosperity by producing more and more efficiently worldwide. More and more production was moved to Asia, especially to China. In general, this was good for almost everyone. Products became cheaper, so everyone could suddenly pay for a smartphone. Many jobs disappeared to China, but many jobs also came back for that. Think of jobs in the fields of trade, innovation and research. But this economic model is under increasing pressure. By now, so much production has moved to China, that we have become completely dependent on that country. At the same time, China invests heavily abroad, for example in obtaining raw materials, which only increases its dependence. For modern products such as smartphones, electric cars and windmills, rare raw materials are needed, which China holds for over 90%. Our need for these raw materials is only growing, five to twenty times greater in the coming years. I find it unacceptable to remain so dependent on China over the coming decades. It prevents us from using our economic power when China is carrying out cyber attacks, possibly attacking Taiwan, extorting our companies with state aid, or violating human rights on a large scale. It is as if we as the European Union are in the boxing ring and have to fight with one weak military arm, and our strong economic arm tied on our backs. Then it's very simple: then you get hit and you can't make a fist yourself. China's dominant position will only become stronger in the coming years. We can't stop this, but we can make ourselves less vulnerable. Therefore, the Netherlands must determine as soon as possible which dependencies we no longer accept and actively reduce these dependencies. For example, we must dare geopolitically to safeguard raw materials. Of course, we prefer to do this in a European context, but the Netherlands must take a leading role in this. Reducing these strategic dependencies is not an easy task. It requires different actions at the same time: more self-production, moving value chains, securing raw materials, making sustainable investments and investing strategically in sectors where we want to be the frontrunner. It requires a broad agenda, an active foreign policy, close cooperation within the European Union and new partnerships with other countries. There are already initiatives to reduce our dependence on China in particular, both within the Netherlands and the European Union. But it's too slow and too uncoordinated. As the Minister himself said in a debate the other day, one step at a time. But China doesn't go one step at a time. The Chinese train is pounding. China has a clear "Made in China" agenda for 2025. And in 2035 the country wants to be technologically independent. In order to also implement a clear strategy and take more action on this, a broad task force should be set up with regard to the VVD. The aim of this task force is that within five to ten years the Netherlands will no longer be so dependent on authoritarian superpowers, and in particular China. The task force draws up a strategy for this purpose, coordinates it and constantly pursues it within the Netherlands and the European Union. Within Foreign Affairs, the task force supports embassies in important international contacts, such as trade missions and diplomatic consultations. The task force works closely with other departments, as well as with industry and academics. It helps to ensure that we can better protect our own crown jewels and not just keep giving our strategic knowledge away to China. I wonder what the Minister thinks of this proposal from the Task Force and whether he recognizes the need for it. Finally. We see that China is becoming less and less a partner, and more and more a system rival. That requires a systematic answer and it really means something for our foreign policy. Adjusting a few points and commas isn't enough. Of course, a next cabinet should fill this in, but I want the new cabinet to be able to make a flying start from day one, and that in the coming months as much preparatory work as possible will be done for this task force, so that there is a plan ready and clear what this task force will look like. To make this possible, I will table an amendment to the budget. Then there is the third and final priority: to preserve our freedom. We have thought for decades that the world would become more freer and more democratic by itself, but this trend has been reversed in recent years. Many countries are becoming less and less free, and the power of autocratic superpowers like China is increasing. We also see increasing pressure on freedoms and the rule of law in several countries within the European Union. But this isn't a problem that's far away. This lack of freedom is also increasingly piercing our Dutch society. China is expanding its investments in Dutch companies. We only have a clear view of the major takeovers that are taking place, but we have a very limited view of China's more gradual investment. In this way, the Chinese state is gaining ground in the Netherlands, and China can increasingly use these investments as leverage. I have spoken to several Dutch people over the last few months who told me that they are no longer able to speak about China, because they fear that they will not be allowed back in the country, or because of fear of other reprisals from Beijing. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to do more research with his colleagues in the cabinet into Chinese investments in the Netherlands. In addition, countries such as Russia and China are spreading increasingly disinformation and fake news to disrupt our country. This affects public opinion and decision-making, and this foreign interference damages our freedom. There is currently no possibility in the Netherlands to make the influence of representatives of foreign superpowers such as China and Russia transparent. We don't know if anyone who appears neutral actually works for the Chinese state. Australia has found a solution to this: they have a public register for so-called agents of foreign influence. Does the Minister also see this as a good idea for the Netherlands? Would he like to take stock of whether the Australian solution is also possible in the Netherlands? Does he want to inform the Chamber about this in the short term? In addition, we know that espionage is an increasing problem. It is therefore very strange that espionage is not yet punishable in the Netherlands. Fortunately, the cabinet has recognized this before and has also announced that it will come forward with a bill to criminalise espionage. Can the Minister give us a description of the situation with regard to this? Furthermore, the harassment and threat of minorities in the Netherlands by the country of origin is a major problem, whether it is Uighurish in the Netherlands, Belarusian journalists, Iranian opposition members or Turkish and Moroccan Dutch who are dealing with Ankara's long arm or Rabat. They are intimidated in our streets. This is affecting our freedom. I am therefore pleased that the Chamber has unanimously approved my motion to make this form of foreign interference part of our human rights policy. I would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to implement this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u42	A question from Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u43	It is a good point that Mr Brekelmans is touching on here. I agree with his questions to the Minister. But I would ask Mr Brekelmans if he has given any thought to the risks that Dutch people face abroad. I am referring, for example, to situations in which people are imprisoned in a foreign country on miserable grounds, for the sole purpose of putting pressure on the country from which they come. We've been through that with those Canadians in China, and it's also happening to people trapped in Iran. Shouldn't there also be a policy from the Department of Foreign Affairs to warn loud and clear that some countries are capable of that kind of thing and that you should be well aware of it when you travel to such a country? Shouldn't there be an information policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u44	I think it is a good idea that people are aware of the risks when they travel to these countries. The travel advice also indicates how a government or a regime operates and what risks you run as a Dutchman abroad and what expressions and behaviours may lead to consequences. I certainly believe that it is an important consular task to pay attention to this and to support Dutch people who end up in such situations. What I just don't know in this kind of criminal proceedings or this kind of situation I really have my doubts about whether that loud and clear shouting leads to the most desirable situation. Often, behind the scenes diplomacy or behind-the-scenes pressure leads to people being released or a regime returning to its actions. Mr De Roon gave the example of Belarus earlier. It might be better not to give such a country a loss of face by openly shouting all kinds of things, but to arrange behind the scenes for a Dutchman to be released in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u45	This is not exactly what I am looking for and where I support Mr Brekelmans' request. I am dealing with situations where people, I will say, are not blinded, but tremendously driven by the business interest they think they have in a country X or a family interest, such as visiting their old mother in country Y, and simply do not allow them to understand the risks they face. I think it would be a good thing if the Foreign Office clearly warned certain countries about the publicity: don't go to country X and if you want to go anyway, take very good account of the fact that you can suddenly be thrown into the cachot on false grounds, just to force the Netherlands to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u46	In that sense, I agree with Mr De Roon's plea that communication is important. Where he has ideas to improve that and travel advice is not enough, I am, of course, open to that. I think, on the basis of the question that Mr De Roon was referring to Afghanistan, that it is strange that people have traveled there, when the country was already so unstable. You'd expect people to know what the situation was like there. This shows that it remains important to communicate about this, but that doesn't stop everyone from going anyway. But I look with great interest at any proposal or idea that Mr De Roon has about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u47	Have you come to the end of your maiden speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have one final point to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr Van Dijk has a question. Can he put it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yeah, do it now, because the latter is more personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u51	Then I will now commit this interruption that I had reserved for the VVD. Mr. Brekelmans has outlined the world view of the VVD. He's been talking about threats. We know the same thing about him. He talked about Russia, China and so on. But I ask him if he has the courage to look back on missions we have done, for example the mission in Afghanistan: twenty years of war, with a great deal of suffering, lots of deaths and lots of casualties. Does he dare to acknowledge that the targets were not really achieved there? Terrorism has not really declined, let alone the goals have been achieved with regard to the whole story of nationbuilding and the building of democracy. Does Mr Brekelmans dare to say here that the war in Afghanistan was a fatal failure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u52	I leave that last term to Mr Van Dijk. I think you can say in general terms that when we went to Afghanistan at different stages of our involvement, different parties had a different view of what would be possible. My party has always been quite realistic, in the sense that our primary objective was to suppress terrorism and reduce the Taliban as much as possible. But we didn't think you could get them out of Afghanistan completely. In addition, we have always been very realistic about what you can do about nationbuilding from the outside in a country. I do agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that over the last 20 years we have shown that, with a great deal of investment and a great deal of presence, the situation is still very fragile, and it is only a matter of waiting to see what will ultimately remain of it. It seems logical to me that we should include lessons from Afghanistan in decisions on future missions, but I would like to draw the conclusions very carefully. We have therefore also supported his plea for an evaluation of 20 years of Afghanistan, regardless of all individual investigations on missions. It seems to me that it is a very important step to look back on those twenty years, to see what we can learn from it and then to commit qualifications to it, and not to use words like Mr Jasper van Dijk's beforehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u53	There is a question from Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u54	First of all, of course, congratulations on your maiden speech. I have a question. You made a speech. You have described the whole situation in the world beautifully. I just haven't heard about the situation in Latvia, if I'm not mistaken. Maybe you're familiar with it. We also discussed it yesterday in the debate; the Minister will know. In Latvia, the majority of non-vaccinated parliamentarians have been expelled from parliament. What do you think of that? And are you also prepared to call on the Minister, for example, to call on the Latvian Ambassador to say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u55	I believe that this kind of health issue and the question of how each country weighs it is by definition up to a country itself. How countries within the European Union and beyond react to it and what is or is not acceptable is also very much inspired by culture. I do not think that we should impose our Dutch standards on other countries like ourselves, because we differ on them in this Chamber, too, and we should call on other countries to determine the rules in their parliaments. I think that's really up to countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u56	I will confine myself to one follow-up question, and I will keep it friendly. It is interesting what you say, because you say now: it is up to countries themselves; they have their own culture. Maybe you can just let me ask you nicely and reflect on the following. Suppose, for example, Orbán........................................................................................................................................................................................................ Would you say that it is their culture, that they should know that and that we are not about that? It is, of course, another Member State, but also Latvia is, of course, a member of the European Union. Would you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u57	I will go along with you in this hypothetical case, because Mr Van Houwelingen is asking me to reflect on that. If in a country that is a member of the European Union groups are excluded from Parliament on the basis of their political beliefs, ethnicity, faith or whatever, I would strongly oppose it. We have agreed democratic values with each other. Only, the example of Latvia mentioned by Mr Van Houwelingen is about health considerations. Each country makes its own choices in how they deal with it. I think that is a different example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u58	This leads to another question from Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u59	This is the last one, and I'm gonna stop talking about it. I will say something about it later in my speech. The Latvian Parliament itself said that these are not health concerns. They were concerned with these parliamentarians, who would spread disinformation. That's basically what it's all about. So these parliamentarians say something that they don't like and that's why they're being removed from parliament; that's what it's all about. That's what happened there. So perhaps you could look into that situation a little more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u60	An incentive, Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u61	In my view, it is not the case in Latvia or in any European country that we look at who has said what and that is said: you do not have access to parliament. This is really about health considerations. That Mr Van Houwelingen links political views to that, I leave it to him, but that is not a factual description of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u62	You're finishing your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes. I'm gonna end up with a cry of hearts. I started my speech with the Dutch ideal: do your best and make choices in freedom; then every Dutchman must be able to live up to his ambitions. But in the two years I lived in the United States, I have experienced that there is another Dutch ideal. That is our democracy and our political culture. Whether it was Americans or people from other parts of the world, everyone to whom I explained our political culture, reacted with jealousy. In the United States compromise is a weakness, politicians try to damage each other as much as possible and election results are no longer accepted. Let us not drift slowly in that direction and let us continue to cherish our own political culture here in the Netherlands. The challenges ahead are already big enough. As President Kennedy said, we should not be disdainful of compromise, but consider it a democratic virtue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you to Mr Brekelmans for his special maiden speech, a somewhat atypical one, because you have had the nerve to challenge your colleagues to interrupt. That is a sign of love for the profession, let's just say. I shall suspend for a few moments, because I am sure a number of people would like to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u65	I should like to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP. Where's the minister? That's the question, isn't it? If you walk very quietly towards the chair, Mr. Van Dijk... I hear a door creaking. Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations once again to Mr Brekelmans for his fine speech, and I would like to mention in particular the personal outbursts. When I listened to that, I couldn't help but confess: VVDs are people too. So, keep up the good work! Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to Theo van Toor, who sits next to the chairman. Thanks for his commitment all these years. I enjoyed it. I've already tweeted how much I value good clerks and support. 'Cause without support, we can't do much. Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the SP organised a peace day in Amersfoort, a peace day on which we talked about war and peace, about Afghanistan, about the great role of the Netherlands in arms exports, about the European defence plans which are currently only confidential, and about 'the permanent war', as we call them. That is the war that has actually been going on since 2001 against all kinds of countries and terror groups. He is also called "the war on terror" on the other side of the ocean. Look at the mad war against Iraq that has arisen from it, and look at the war in Afghanistan that has come to an end this year. It has lasted twenty years, caused immense casualties, over 100,000, and, not to mention, led to millions of refugees. Before the government embarks on another rash adventure, I would say: what lessons have been learned from that terrible war? There's gonna be an investigation. That's true, and that's good. This is also the result of a motion from myself in April. I'd like to hear if that's what all the people were found for. That does not alter the fact that we were able to draw conclusions and draw conclusions today, I believe. We already know a lot. We know, for example, that the targets have not been achieved. There is no less terror and there has been no democracy in Afghanistan either. In fact, the Taliban have, so to speak, taken over that country with two hands in the nose. We've all been able to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Van der Staaij has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Van Dijk is quite right to ask me to return to this in my term of office for a look back at what has happened in Afghanistan and what has been the commitment in the years behind, including from the Netherlands. But that's not just about the military trail. There has also been a lot of diplomacy and a lot of commitment to development cooperation. How does Mr Van Dijk view its impact and success?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u69	That is a very valid point. We have always said that, of course, you should not turn your back on Afghanistan completely. The people there are incredibly hard times right now. As far as possible, as far as possible, we must continue to provide humanitarian and development aid, because the people of Afghanistan are the biggest victims of the great tragedy that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u70	Certainly, but apart from humanitarian aid now, I also refer to reflection. If you want to look back, what I support, then you should focus that reflection not only on military deployment, on defence deployment, but on broader action. I thought we had a 3D policy, with diplomacy and development. What lessons does Mr Van Dijk see and does he think that we should also look closely at the lessons that we can draw from the commitment on the other tracks? It is not just a question of defence commitment in the narrow sense, of war, as Mr Van Dijk calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u71	Very once, although I have always been a bit suspicious, let me put it this way about this 3D approach, defence, development and diplomacy. You also remember: in 2006 the Netherlands would carry out a construction mission in Uruzgan. It turned out to be a fight mission in practice. There have been incredibly many casualties there, unfortunately also on the Dutch side. I still have parliamentary questions with the Minister about the Battle of Chora. If you go into that, you can see that the Netherlands has fought hard there. In the Netherlands, however, we received reports about development aid, construction and so on. Later, when the dust clouds were raised, we saw how hard a fight was fought there. Perhaps this is once again a plea to carry out a proper and thoroughly independent investigation, preferably not by a former Minister of Defence, I add. I'd like to hear who's being found for that. Mr. Chairman. Look at the cost, too. No less than 2,000 billion dollars has been spent on the war in Afghanistan. Of course, it went mainly to weapons to wage a horrible war that has not resulted in anything at all. What could we have done with that money? That's what we described in the Atlas of the Armed Forces. I'm offering it exclusively to the minister here. We published that Saturday. I'd be happy to give it to the Minister. I have to tell you quite frankly: because of a limited edition the MPs have to download it, but the minister gets a printed copy. If you want, I can sign it, too. We'll do it later. Mr. Chairman. Look at the first chart on page 6 with global military spending: $1,960 billion. It's a huge amount. The United States stands lonely at the top with no less than $778 billion. Secondly, Europe comes with $316 billion. China and Russia are far from achieving this by 252 billion dollars and 62 billion dollars respectively. This raises the question of whether it is really necessary to invest more billions in Defence. These are billions that we cannot spend on other things, such as care and education. It is billions for the arms industry, which is already doing well, certainly not in the Netherlands. Look at the graph on page 11. Then you can see that the Netherlands is a big arms exporter. We're number 11 arms exporters worldwide. Despite the rules, the famous criteria, for arms exports, which a company must meet before it can export arms, weapons still regularly go to countries that violate human rights. Think of Egypt; we had a recent debate on it. Think of Turkey: weapons are being used there for all sorts of dubious matters. Still, the company gets a permit. Therefore, compliance with the arms export criteria must be much stricter. And then there is the fact that the Netherlands is a financial hub for arms companies. No less than 10 billion euros of arms companies are being tricked through the Netherlands, through all kinds of fiscal constructions, so-called "rulings." We need to get rid of that. We have therefore launched a petition to take action on these three points: the permanent war, arms exports and the Netherlands tax haven for arms companies. The most important lesson from last Saturday's Peace Day, which you can see back on our website by the way, is that we will not continue in a hopeless arms race, a Cold War 2.0. After twenty years of hopeless war in Afghanistan, it is time for a different course. I would, of course, ask for a reflection from the Minister on that point. Mr President, a few other points. The drama on the Polish-White-Russian border. A few thousand migrants were transported there by dictator Lukashenko. They are now kept away from the Polish border with water cannons. Polish aid workers are being beaten up. Ten people have already died. It's degrading what's happening there right now. Through diplomatic efforts, the influx of migrants seems to stop. Airlines stop flights to Minsk, also working on return. My question is: what then to do with the group that is now in the border area? That's a few thousand people. And if that influx dries up, so that there are no new people, then the question to this minister, to Europe, is: what are we doing with this group of people? Shall we first please give them humanitarian aid instead of beating them up? Read for that this morning Faithful. And shall we see if a proper asylum procedure is possible? We are working on return, no misunderstanding about it; people who are not entitled to asylum will have to return. But people who do have the right to protection can allow Europe. I believe that this is the essence of the Refugee Treaty and the essence of the message that Europe wants to send to the world: that you must help people who are calling for protection. How's that insight coming? Will the Minister also pass that on to his Polish colleague? What is the Dutch Government doing against the fact that Israel has recently placed six NGOs on the terrorist list? Does he agree with me that this is unacceptable to a democracy? Can I have a response from the Minister to the report this morning on Afghanistan, namely that guards from the embassy should not be evacuated to the Netherlands? I don't think that's in line with the Belhaj motion. I'd like a response to that. Mr President, and finally. Last night, the Netherlands qualified for the World Cup. We have seen it: it was a bit of a last minute victory, but it was a victory. And that brings me to the Karabulut motion: the motion of the SP saying that there should be no official delegation to the World Cup in Qatar, no king, no Rutte. And the government has always said: Van Dijk, we wait for the qualifications first. As of last night, the government can't hide behind that anymore, so I'd like to hear from this minister how he's going to perform the SP motion. The World Cup in Qatar will continue. I hope we play some good games. But we do not want an official delegation to lead there, because there has been terrible suffering with the construction of stadiums there, more than 6,000 dead, and that should not be approved by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you to Mr Van Dijk. I call Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate Mr Brekelmans on his beautiful, personal maiden speech. And the pride he feels for his little daughter: I hope that he will be able to feel the pride of his little daughter when she grows up and sees her father here in Parliament as a member of the VVD. Of course, in line with what the President has said, I would also like to say a few words to our clerk, Theo van Toor, whose last budget discussion is this. I have benefited nine years as a Member of Parliament from his knowledge, his experience and, at regular intervals, from his relativism. When I was a little too excited again, he always knew how to tell me that the world didn't go away immediately. But then he went after it again. That's awesome. And as Mr Van Dijk said, it is difficult to say goodbye to someone in support who has put his entire life, for 35 years, into service not only to the Foreign Office, but also to democracy. I would also like to thank him so much from here on in for his contribution. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Foreign Affairs budget. That is always an opportunity to take a step back and to look at the world from a slightly greater distance. In the previous budget, I considered the fact that under Trump's presidency the alarm bells went off in the Netherlands and in the European Union. How to relate to an America that doesn't want to relate to us? I argued at that time that it was important after his presidency, when President Biden took office, not to press the snooze button, pretend it was business as usual and fall back into old patterns. But I have to say that we are slowly falling back into those old patterns. Of course, we must keep this relationship with the United States as strong as possible. That's exactly what D66 thinks. But it is also necessary, and perhaps even more necessary, for us as the European Union to learn to operate independently on the world stage. We are an economic power but a geopolitical dwarf. We must become a geo-economic powerhouse. That brings me to my first point, Mr President. Our foreign policy must become European policy. We need a focus on this. We need the strength to do that. We need a clear division of labour and a long-term commitment within the European Union. Maybe first of all about that focus. It is all that the European Union has a pacifist strategy. That's what we need as greatness. At the same time, however, my group sometimes has the impression that we are neglecting our own backyard, so to speak. I am talking about the Balkans, where Bosnia is in danger of falling apart by a rebellious President in Republika Srpska. It's been the biggest conflict since the war there, since the genocide there. I am also talking about Belarus, Ukraine, about which our colleagues have already spoken, where we are being blackmailed or where we are in any case trying to blackmail us, with Russia's support, to distract us, of course, from the repression that is taking place in Belarus itself and to distract the enormous Russian forces that are collapsing at the border of Ukraine. I'd like to get an appreciation of that from this foreign minister: how does he indicate the collapse of that force? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to see that focus reflected in the way in which Foreign Affairs is deploying its capacity and its people. I think we should look more closely at our own region. Traditionally, we are talking about 'the broad ring of Europe', but I sometimes have the impression that we look so wide that we forget that things are happening at the point of our shoe. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Second, impact force. We as the European Union must be able to put more on the mat. That means faster decision-making. This means: less decision-making per QMV, by majority decision-making. I ask the Minister what possibilities he sees for taking steps in the near future. The second is, and colleagues have talked about it, that our dependence will have to be reduced. We can never do that entirely, but we need to be smarter with the dependencies we have now. In this context, I call 'gas and Russia' and 'oil'. We need to get rid of those dependencies. I would also ask the Foreign Minister to reflect on this. It simply bites that on the one hand we want to be critical of, for example, a Russia, but on the other hand a Russia can blackmail us through the gas. Then the third point within that impact force. Traditionally, the European Union is strong in soft power, but the European Union must also become strong in hard power. That is simply inevitable. We can see that in the Strategic Compass. In this we see that the Battlegroups must be transformed into a rapid reaction force. We see that attempts are going to be made to take slow steps in the area of security. As far as my group is concerned, it is also decadent, simply decadent, that the European Union, Europe, is dependent on the United States for the security of its own territory. I do not want to say that we have to leave NATO or that NATO is an obsolete, absolutely not. We need to stay a part of that. But the fact that we depend on the United States for the security of our own territory is decadent. That is also why my group is so passionate about this spot on the horizon: a European army. Please respond to those plans for the Battlegroups and the European Security Council. Mr. Chairman. Fourthly, human rights policy. The European Union's human rights policy must get teeth. Too often it's statements full of convictions. It is important to express this indignation, but if there is no force behind it, it means little. Therefore, my group, supported by the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union among others, would like to advocate that we provide the Magnitsky Act, which is already there, with new input: a kind of unity with human rights detectives. GroenLinks has already argued for this. These are people in the Foreign Office who are going after these criminals, who are trying to collect evidence and who are also scratching behind the letterbox companies to see where the assets are all being hidden, to make sure that once we have them sharp, we can actually freeze them and keep them outside the European Union. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I would like a response from the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u75	Maybe two more points on this. My first point is that we have previously asked for a greater role to be played by relatives and human rights organisations. We have also asked for the lists drawn up under the Magnitsky Act in the United States and Canada to be reviewed. I would like a response from the Minister to what exactly happened to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u76	Quite rightly, Mr Sjoerdsma is calling for greater investment in a sanctioning unit with Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask him about that. First of all, it is good that there is an amendment. We have already discussed before the debate that it would have been nice if there had been a moment of contact, but we have corrected that. I would like to make the point that I hope that Mr Sjoerdsma's group chairman will no longer say in future that D66 is the only progressive party that wants to take responsibility, because there are other parties who want to and have proposals. We'll find each other on that. But doesn't Mr Sjoerdsma find it strange that the government itself is unable to find 1 million in a structural budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u77	Yeah, that's a good question. I find that a little weird myself. I've been a Member of Parliament for nine years. I myself have noticed that a government can sometimes surprise you with a drive that you think is: well, what a welcome surprise; I didn't see it coming. But I have also learned that, where that does not happen, sometimes there is still a role for us as MPs, fortunately, but, I would say, to encourage the government a little bit. I understand that the government does not feel too free to allow all kinds of major changes or to get money from anywhere in a missionary period, but I sympathise very much with you. In view of the sentiment in the Chamber about sanctions regimes and how to use them for years, you might have expected a little more self-reliance here; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u79	A third and fourth point on European foreign policy. This also requires, of course, a good division of labour and a long-term commitment. In this respect, the European Union is too often like a kindergarten, or at least like someone with the attention span of a kindergarten, who is shocked every three months by another crisis. Then the 27 countries are looking at that again, rather than just being distributed neatly, so that there is a constant focus on what concerns us. Mr. Chairman. If you do that at European level, then of course you have to look at what the Netherlands itself should do, where there is added value. As far as I am concerned, foreign policy is designed so that we represent our values and interests so well that others can benefit from them. That should be at the heart of our own foreign policy. Then, of course, we have added value in the way we use our economic strength and climate knowledge, but I would also like to address two other issues in particular: consular services, that is, services for Dutch people abroad, and human rights. As regards the consular service, with 1 million Dutch people abroad, this is a core task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the most important task I have to ask the Minister. We have discussed the digitisation of services, the acquisition of passports and driving licences. I'd like to urge the Minister once more, as far as he needs, to move forward with that. The second thing I would like to ask him is to provide a more regular and confidential feedback on consular cases that are really long-term or that are very sensitive and very complicated. The Chamber doesn't have a good view of that from time to time. I should just like to mention the case-Singh and the case-Van Laarhoven. That's how we've had a number of cases. I think it would be good to discuss this more often with the Chamber. In the area of human rights you cannot do everything, but human rights apply to everyone. So where do you put that focus for the Netherlands? As far as D66 is concerned, you focus on those areas where the Netherlands has the greatest added value, where we have a unique voice. This is the case in the defence and strengthening of Ihbti rights worldwide and in the defence and strengthening of the rights of non-believers and journalists. In that context, I have three questions for the Minister. My first question concerns the following. In 2017, together with a large number of parties, I tabled a motion to set up a journalistic emergency fund for journalists in need abroad. I would like to ask the Minister whether this will continue in the coming period. Is that the plan or does it end? My great hope is, of course, in view of the vote in the Chamber, that this will continue. My second short question is about Poland. Women can't have abortion there anymore. They can no longer possess their bodies themselves. I would like to ask whether it is possible, with a financial contribution from the Netherlands, to make it possible for Polish women, if they wish, to make that choice elsewhere, if necessary in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then Europe. Our foreign policy is European. Our own added value lies in a number of unique things. As far as I am concerned, our own credibility also depends very much on how we look back at and how we take responsibility for our own actions. I think we're very good at taking other people's measure, and sometimes we have to. Few countries do. We must do the same as the Netherlands. But then we must also be honest and clear about what we have ever done wrong. I am referring to Srebrenica, where relatives have had to sue until the Supreme Court in the Netherlands in order to obtain compensation. I call Indonesia, where we are still waiting for a structural investigation by three research institutes, to finally get some kind of definitive version of what happened there in post-colonial Indonesia. And then the government would relate to that. I believe that research will be carried out in February next year. I ask the Minister how the government looks at that process. I also mention, of course, our slavery history, which I think if you do not dare to make excuses for, which is not only bad for our relationship with Suriname, but also makes it difficult for us to appeal to other countries to do what they have to do. Whether that's correcting wrongdoing or reconciling. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of questions that did not lend themselves to this more general story. I see Mr Van Dijk is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u80	I have two more questions on two very different subjects. So I cut my interruption in half. As far as I am concerned, the fact that we also have to look at ourselves is a perfectly justified appeal from Mr Sjoerdsma. We have to look at ourselves, too. Then Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned a number of examples, good examples, but I missed Afghanistan in that list. What lessons did D66 learn from this war? I'm gonna drop the qualifications this time. There's gonna be another big investigation, but we already know a lot. Is Mr Sjoerdsma prepared to confess that this war, let me put it this way, has not been a great success?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u81	Let me cut this up. I hope the President will forgive me for talking a little longer, because this is not a question that lends itself to a 15-second one-liner, I think. Look, I've always argued that our presence in Afghanistan has been far too fragmented. We have hink-step-jumped through the country: from Baghlan to Uruzgan, from Uruzgan to Kunduz and from Kunduz to Mazar-i-Sharif. If you want to be somewhere significant and serious, you need to be in one place. Then you really have to choose. That's one of the things I've always argued. The second point is that you have to look very seriously at what neighbouring countries actually do for influence on Afghanistan. In this respect, I believe that we have ignored Pakistan's spoiler behaviour for a very long time, for example. We just thought: well, let's try to relate constructively to that. I cannot give an exhaustive answer, but one of the more painful lessons from the evacuation is that we as the Netherlands and also as the European Union were unable to launch an evacuation operation on our own. That raises the question of what that means, not only when it comes to how you deal with your security mechanisms in a European context, with your capacity, but also how this is done in a Dutch context. We have chosen to pool strategic air transport. The question on the table is: was that wise or not? I must honestly say that I will not answer that question for my colleague in the defense. Then there is Mr Van Dijk's question: did it result in what we had hoped for? I think the answer to that question is clearly 'no'. However, I would like to say one thing, also because I was allowed to work in Kabul for a year in 2011-2012. Apart from the horrible images that we always see on television, I always have a picture of the times when there were parliamentary elections. Then I saw kids playing there. They were standing in line for some kind of cottage. Then there came a child in front of the line, that stood there for a moment and that then ran away very happy laughing again with a painted thumb. And what were those kids playing? Those kids preferred to play. My great hope would be that, despite all the misery that is there today and despite all the setbacks that we have seen there, with the girls who have been educated there, with the children and young adults who have been able to see how democracy has been able to function there, we have planned a seed that has been so strong that it can also resist this repression of the Taliban. Whether it is and whether it will be, I dare not say. Anyway, at least I'll cherish that hope for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mrs Piri, then Mr Brekelmans and then Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr Sjoerdsma referred just now to the fact that he himself was once a diplomat in Afghanistan, in Kabul at the embassy. That's what my question is about. If there's one important group, that's the local staff of an embassy. Mr Sjoerdsma has also been working for this over and over again over the last few months, when we were talking about Afghanistan. Now I am surprised to read in the Volkskrant this morning that the local guards are abandoned and not evacuated because they were not directly employed by the embassy. How does Mr Sjoerdsma feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u84	I have one reservation to make: I haven't seen that message myself. So before I react too strongly and become too categoral in my statements, I have to make the reservation that I didn't see what was in that message. Let me say, however, that I think it is of the utmost importance, especially from my own experience there, that the Netherlands is a reliable employer. The Netherlands has gone a long way; the Netherlands has never evacuated and has now evacuated local staff. The Chamber went a long way in that and, as far as I am concerned, quite rightly, with the Belhaj motion. My own feeling, even in a general sense, without going into this case too specifically, would be that that Belhaj motion should be carried out in the way that motion was described and as it has been answered, also in the letter from the Cabinet implementing that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u85	Then I assume that we will be supported by D66 to make an exception for this group as agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u86	I heard Mr Sjoerdsma critically about the missions in Afghanistan. We have also had an extensive debate recently on a mission in Mali. We have debated this as a Chamber, and we have agreed to it. Mr Sjoerdsma had a number of very critical questions there, especially about a small EU mission that played there. He was pretty much the only party that wanted to withdraw six people we contributed to it. Now he also pleads for a European army. Does that mean, in his wishful thinking, that it will be decided in Brussels that Dutch men and women will be broadcast and that Dutch men and women will risk their lives, and that we will, with all these objections and critical questions that we ask the Minister, be excluded from such a mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u87	In all honesty, this is often the bogus debate as it is conducted in this Chamber. That was also the case when my colleague Belhaj presented an initiative paper on how to shape such a European military force. Then the debate was narrowed down to this question. My group's answer was very clear at the time: no, you cannot put the broadcast of Dutch soldiers in Brussels' hands. It can't be. But what you can do is a lot of steps ahead, namely joint training, joint missions, joint procurement, a military headquarters, joint capabilities, a joint rapid response deployment whenever necessary. When the question comes, "Would you like to join us?', Then the Dutch Parliament has, of course, to say whether you want to participate in it. If the Netherlands does not participate, the European Union can, of course, still make the effort with other countries that do, under the European flag. That is exactly how NATO works, but on the European side. I myself think that is incredibly necessary. I think it is also necessary that we make the thinking about this a little more complex and less flat, if I have to be very honest. Because I understand Mr Brekelmans' concern, but that is not the debate we have to have right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr Eppink and then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u89	Just now the name of Qatar fell here, or Qatr as you pronounce it. I was waiting for the end of Mr Sjoerdsma's speech to hear about China. Now I have recently seen a quote from him saying that autocratic regimes are hit hardest when they are hit in their reputation. "Can we assume that there will be no government delegation from the Netherlands at the Olympic Games in China?" Now my question is: how effective is that? Do you think that China's leaders will be damaged in their reputation and will fall on the ground crying if the Netherlands does not come? I think these leaders would say, "Luckily, they're not coming, we're done with that." If you stay home, you won't be able to say anything. I think it would be better if a government delegation went ahead and tried to raise points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u90	Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u91	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I was indeed not at the end of my term. But I think it is a gain that the JA21 group considers it important that we address China on the abuses that are taking place there. I think that's a win, and that's what I think is important to note. If Mr Eppink asks me if I think that the Chinese government would fall back if there was a friendly note from the Dutch government that unfortunately we are not sending a government delegation to China, then don't think so either. But what I do think is this. The Netherlands is not a country that lives in isolation. At a time when, I will just mention what, the United States of America, where there seems to be a movement not to go to the Olympic Games, together with European countries and the European Union under which the Netherlands is doing this, I think that will have an effect, because nothing autocrats gets so hard in their own honour as when they want to celebrate a hugely important party and spend a lot of money on it, and then they are shirt-up because the rest of the world doesn't see it as a party. More moral... We can differ on that. I also consider morality to be important in foreign policy. You could say, "I don't think so." I find it very difficult to explain that this Chamber declares that there is genocide in China on the Uighurs in Eastern Turkestan and that we will then say: you can go there. I can't explain that to myself. That's why, Mr. Eppink, I'm still in favour of that. In fact, I will table a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u92	May I make one more suggestion, in this case, Mr. Chairman? Would we not have a stronger leverage function if we were to say, with regard to China, that if you continue to do so, we would restrict access to the common market in Europe? This affects China at the heart of its economic model and the income they need. That would make this much more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you for that. That too is a suggestion which I very much welcome and which I can support. I found it uncomfortable, but also clumsy, when the European Parliament decided to freeze the EU-China Investment Treaty for the sanctions imposed on European parliamentarians, including myself. I don't think that's the right attitude. If you have such a large investment treaty yourself, Mr Eppink is right to point that out in order to achieve clear objectives, or to achieve equal access for European companies to the Chinese economy, and/or to raise and change the abuses that China causes in its own country or in other countries. You really shouldn't "sold" such a big drug. So I very much agree with Mr Eppink. That's what we should do. If he has concrete proposals for this, I am very much looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u94	Then there is another question from Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u95	On the issue of no delegation from the Netherlands to the Games in China, I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. We are also both members of the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China. But I have another question. In this way, I shall continue with Mrs Piri's contribution. It's about Afghanistan and the evacuation of staff, guards, who worked for our diplomats. In the reply I heard Mr Sjoerdsma speak very emphatically about the Netherlands as an employer. Does this also apply to employees employed by a company that works on behalf of the Netherlands? Employees of such a company have guarded Dutch diplomats for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u96	Once again, I would like to add the reservation that I did not see that article. So I don't want to be too categorical either. I don't want to mow the grass at the feet of my colleague Belhaj either. I understand that there will be another debate on the intermediate position around the evacuation. Let me say this in general terms. I think that is the line contained in the cabinet letter. Those who have worked for us for a long time in positions that pose risks to the individuals themselves or their families should be eligible for evacuation. What exactly is in that article you are talking about, I am afraid to say, so I cannot respond to it. But that's what it's like in general terms. Maybe a little more personal: look, I saw pictures during the evacuation of the embassy gardener, who was stuck outside the airport. I know him very well. I also call him a chef from the embassy; I know him very well. Some parties said: are we going to pick up a cook who once made us a sandwich? We need to realize what these people have done for us. Of course, not every one of those positions is equally profiled or equally public. But we are talking about people who have all gone through the fire for all of us, knowingly taking a risk. This has now turned out to be much bigger than they might have thought possible when they started doing so. I think we owe them great gratitude, in a general sense. When I look at what they can expect from us in the Netherlands, I hope they have had a warm welcome and will receive an even warmer welcome in the coming months and that they will be included here in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I had come up with topics that didn't lend themselves entirely to a general story. A few specific questions to this minister. First of all, on the fact that Israel has designated six respected Palestinian organisations as a terrorist organisation. Quite apart from the evidence, it is undoubtedly part of a war against everything related to human rights and international law in that area. Of course, the moment there would be terrorism, you have to intervene. But let me be very clear: this is an attempt to legitimise everything that civil society still stands for, both in Palestine and in Israel. I ask this Minister to respond to that move, also because, for example, the Democrats in America were furious. Second point. The same is happening with civil society in Russia: great repression, great repression. Putin uses the salami tactics of each time a step further. Now with the law on foreign agents, he also evicts journalists, to my horror Dutch journalists. But as a icing on the repressive cake, he now also threatens to label Memorial as a foreign agent, thus erasing all criticism and contradiction for good. I would ask the Minister to stand up for this renowned human rights group and, together with allies, to make it clear that we stand up for their right to do their work to ensure that this does not happen unnoticed and forgotten. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the subject that Mr Eppink touched on about China. In an earlier committee debate, I asked this Minister whether an invitation had been sent to IOC members and former IOC members. I still very much like to hear whether that is the case or whether that invitation is being considered. I would like to ask him once again, and I insist on doing so, in order to make a commitment not to send a government delegation to the Olympic Games in China. Mr. Chairman. That was my argument. Do not press the snooze button, go for a European foreign policy, let the Netherlands do what it really is good at and ensure that we maintain our credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u99	Please stand still, for there are questions Mr Van Houwelingen first. Then there is Mr Van Dijk and then there is Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u100	My question will not come as a surprise to Mr Sjoerdsma. Mr Sjoerdsma is not disgusting about teaching other countries: Russia, Poland, Hungary and so on. We also talked yesterday in the debate about the fact that in Latvia parliamentarians were expelled from parliament. I would just like to correct what my colleague from the VVD just said: it really has nothing to do with public health. The Latvian Parliament itself says so. It is about protecting the credibility of public policy. You might agree with me on that. They can't vote anymore either, they don't get paid, they've really gotten kicked out. Otherwise, they would have been able to participate online. It really has nothing to do with public health. My question is: imagine, for example, that Orban would say "you know what, Volt in Hungary undermines my anti-lggbt policy, which I throw out parliament." Would Mr Sjoerdsma say 'fine, I agree', or do you think that this is a great scandal, which I hope? Are you prepared to talk to the Minister about this, because in your speech I did not hear you say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u101	I want to divide the answer in two. Perhaps first of all the situation in Latvia and in a more general sense as regards parliamentarians. My group is opposed to any parliamentary vote, regardless of the colour or views of that party. Whether you are a Putinist like many of the Latvian parliamentarians, whether you are a Kurdish parliamentarians in Turkey or a Palestinian parliamentarians in prison, I find it unacceptable for a democratic voice to be smothered, thrown out of play or denied access to parliament. I agree with Mr Van Houwelingen. At the same time, I also feel a great inconvenience in what Mr Van Houwelingen has to say to me in this Parliament on behalf of a party that claims that Mr Hugo de Jonge is engaged in mass murder. I'm just quoting. On November 11, Baudet says in a member email that unvaccinated are the new Jews and that looking away shut-outs are the new Nazis and NSBs. That gives me such an inconvenience, because I think it is not only Forum unworthy. I also find it unworthy of Members of Parliament to make such statements. I think it is unworthy of our Parliament and our democracy. And no, I don't want to rule you out, but I'd like to ask you to take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u102	Just for the viewers at home: this is exactly what always happens here. I am asking you a question, a question of substance, which you cannot, of course, answer, because you are absolutely stuck. Now you're bringing in something completely different. It doesn't matter who's asking that question. Perhaps Mr Bishop will be able to ask the same question later and then, I think, you will be stuck. So answer my question, just the question I just asked you, instead of bringing in all sorts of nonsense. Are you prepared to ask the Minister, for example, to call on the Latvian ambassador to attend the General Affairs Council in Latvia next week? Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u103	I'd say, Mr. Van Houwelingen, be a man! Your group chairman makes that kind of statement, that kind of disgusting statement about the Second World War, about a minister, and accuses him of committing mass murder. Then Mr Van Houwelingen dares not say: 'Yes, I agree, I do not take that back'. Nor does he dare to take it back on my instructions. He just doesn't have the guts to repeat it. He's standing here, a little bedridden, accusing me of not giving an answer. But I gave him an answer. Klip-and-ready. I agree with you: what is happening in Latvia cannot be done, and if the Minister wishes to say something about it in a European Council, he has my support. But now you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. You. For this is about the dignity of Parliament, the dignity of our democracy, and I want to know from you: do you support those statements, those despicable statements made by Mr Baudet or not, and do you take it back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr. Sjoerdsma, I'd love to go through the chairman. That's gonna take out some of the emotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u105	Through you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u106	Through the President, I will answer this Chamber. So you are very dissatisfied with the comparison with World War II. Okay. What period may we allow your crimes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u107	No, not "your." Not "your"!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u108	He's doing it, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u109	No, not "he" either. Mr. Van Houwelingen: through the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u110	Can we compare your crimes: the exclusion of millions of people from our society, the introduction of that terrible apartheid card based on a great hoax? You can tell me what period you want us to compare it with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u111	"Mrs. Chairman, can Mr. Sjoerdsma indicate what comparison can be made?" That's how we do it here to calm things down. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. This period is not easy to compare with another period, because we are dealing with a pandemic of unprecedented proportions. We are dealing with a global disease that has resulted in millions of deaths. And then you can let me say, Madam President, that that disease is a fake, that it is a hoax. Then you can insinuate that it will inject microchips. Then you can write a novel under a pseudonym that is half Hitler glorifying, as Mr Van Houwelingen did. Then you can stand here and ask me a question, but I'm asking you, Mr. Van Houwelingen, and if you don't have the guts...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u113	"I ask Mr Van Houwelingen..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u114	Through the President: if Mr Van Houwelingen does not have the courage to repeat those words here in Parliament or to distance himself from them, then Mr Van Houwelingen is not worthy of his title as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr. Van Houwelingen, before you interrupt, it's your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u116	It's my last one, indeed. They are, of course, disgusting insinuations as we are used to from Mr Sjoerdsma. Indeed, you are unable to give just one answer. You haven't answered any of my questions either, and you're also unable to give a comparison, and that makes sense, because your crime...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u117	Not "your"!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u118	Okay, through the chairman, Mr. Sjoerdsma's crimes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u119	The chairman is innocent anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u120	... are indeed not comparable to that period, because they are incomparable. They are on a global scale, as we can expect from a globalist as you can expect. You must be deeply and deeply ashamed. Your time will come, because there will be tribunals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u121	Those are all threats, Mr. Van Houwelingen. I don't like it any better. Mr. Sjoerdsma, you still have the space to respond briefly, and then I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u122	Look, the statements of Forum are, of course, a low point. I've been a Member of Parliament for over nine years now. However, I must honestly say that I have not experienced before in the plenary of this House that a colleague of mine is standing on the interrupting microphone with a threat. He says, "Your time will come; you will face a tribunal." And I tell you, Mr Van Houwelingen: at this time, in which I am very concerned about the safety and health of all my colleagues in this Parliament, that does not come light to me and I do not take that threat lightly either. I'm asking you, Mr. Van Houwelingen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u123	You ask Mr Van Houwelingen, not "you."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u124	If you, Mr Van Houwelingen, do not want to take back the statements of your group chairman, I would ask you to at least take this back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u125	All right, so far. Mr Van Dijk has another question on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u126	Well, Mr President, I must say that I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. I don't just think it's weak...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u127	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u128	I also think it is a cowardly thing that Mr Van Houwelingen does not answer the question. If his political leader here compares non-vaccines with Jews who are being transported to quarantine camps, then that is no different than disgusting and reprehensible. It is really very cowardly that you do not respond to this, because you are walking away from the question that has just been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u129	Not "you"! I also think that Mr Van Houwelingen has the right to respond briefly to this interruption. But I would ask you all to speak through the President. Otherwise, I'm just saying that we're gonna stop here now, because that's just gonna lead to more emotion and more sense and more you, you, you, you, so it's gonna go through the chairman, or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr President, I say through the chairman. We have on our website an extensive piece about the comparison with World War II. I would like to refer to that. Read that. It's being built all over history there. The parallels are terrifying. So the gradual exclusion of a group must be recognized. You can't go there now, later... I started with the bench; you were so angry about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u131	Not "you"! Mr Van Dijk was so angry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u132	Sorry. I started, Chairman... Mr Van Dijk was also so angry about this when I compared it to the bench, in May I think it was in a debate. It is now going much further, Mr President. We unvaccinated people can't get into all kinds of theatres... that debate about the coronapas is tomorrow. We're gonna try to fillibuster that. If that is extended, people can also be robbed of their bread. We get thousands of e-mails from people who are terrified. They get other MPs if it's okay, too, because I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u133	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u134	Excuse me. I'm being accused of everything here. We hear about children who can't go to a festival anymore, who have to dry themselves out outside. We're hearing some really outrageous things that I never thought were possible. We come here, 'fucking' I would almost say, for Article 1 of the Constitution. That is what we stand for! That is what we stand for! And then I get all sorts of disgusting insinuations thrown to my head by Mr Sjoerdsma, I say through the chairman. We stand up for Article 1, and for people who are completely in tribulation, they no longer know what to do. That's what we do. And we have also seen in an earlier period that people were expressed out of society in that way. That was also happening then under the pretext that they would be contagious to others. So the parallels are terrifying. So read that piece instead of "o, oh, oh, what's the big deal" to do. It would be a pleasure for you to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr Van Dijk, in conclusion, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u136	I'm not getting an answer. Mr Van Houwelingen says nothing about Mr Baudet's tweets, which both I and Sjoerdsma mentioned. Those tweets refer directly to the Holocaust and the persecution of Jews. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u137	You had another interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yes, then I shall proceed to my second interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma. It's about Belarus. Does he want to say something about that himself, or was he done with his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr Sjoerdsma needs to get back to his senses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u140	Well, to be perfectly honest, no, I'm out of my mind. Because there's just been a threat made to me here. So, no, I'm not in class. In fact, I expect it to be simply intervened, or taken back. I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u141	Okay, then I'm gonna see if it might be a wise decision to suspend briefly for the moment, and see how we proceed. Mr. Van Houwelingen, I think you've spoken enough. I would like to allow Mr Van der Lee to make a brief interruption or an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u142	Yes, I have a point of order, Mr President. I fully sympathize with Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u143	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u144	It is no longer a question of who has said anything outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u145	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u146	It is about what has just been said in this Chamber by one Member of Parliament in the direction of another Member of Parliament. "Your time will come, the tribunals are coming." Those words must be taken back! It is not possible in Dutch parliamentary democracy for a Member of Parliament to say this to another Member of Parliament. It has to be done now!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr. Van der Lee, I left you the room to make an order proposal. I would like to suggest that we suspend briefly to see how we deal with this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u148	I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u149	For the record, I was just saying that, as far as we are concerned, there will be tribunals at some point, because the crimes that are taking place around the covid regime are so enormous that it can only be solved in this way. My comment, of course, is not directed personally at Mr Sjoerdsma, because he is one of many who may be eligible by that time, so he does not have to take it personally. But he did just make a personal remark to me about a novel, which has long since been defunct. It would adorn Mr Sjoerdsma if he distanced himself from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u150	Okay, Mr. Van Houwelingen, this is exactly not what we just agreed to. It's too bad, though. I'll rephrase your words. That's what I'm doing now, by the way. I would rather not do that, because I would rather stand above the parties and not let myself be dragged into a debate between you and Mr Sjoerdsma. But we just agreed that you think that there are going to be tribunals and we just agreed that this was not a personal threat to Mr Sjoerdsma. I see you nodding in agreement. Let's leave it at that. But realize that words matter. Yeah? Then we're back. I am looking at Mr Sjoerdsma, because he had not yet come to the end of his speech. I don't know if you want to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr. Chairman. I have come more than at the end of my speech. I will, of course, give an answer to those Members who still want to ask me substantive questions. They have a right to that. They have the right to question me, as spokesman for D66, the second party of the country, critically. That's why I'm gonna stand. But I must say, Madam President, that despite your rephrasing, which I appreciate, Mr Van Houwelingen does not take back those words. In fact, he might make them a little worse. Because where the words were first directed at me alone, he now focuses them on everyone who is responsible for the corona policy. I'm marking this now in this House of Representatives. He's now targeting all those who support the Corona policy to some extent. I tell you this: you cannot equate democratic decisions with crimes. You cannot call parliamentarians criminals, you cannot say 'your time will come'. Those kinds of threats don't have a pass in this House of Representatives. We will all have to fight back that dignity, I say to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u152	I agree. We're really gonna close this point, Mr. Van Dijk. We can keep going over this. I see your annoyance and I share it, but this is what it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u153	Mr. Chairman. I just want to say that I am not going to make my interruption anymore, because the debate has been seriously disturbed by what happened here. I find it very, very disappointing that Mr Van Houwelingen just indicated to you that he wanted to say that it was not a personal threat, but that he did not repeat it for the microphone. Unbelievably cowardly!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Van Dijk... There's another "normal" interruption, to name it. Mr. Brekelmans, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u155	My maiden speech I used to end with a cry of hearts, namely to cherish our political culture and not to harm each other too much. I would like to repeat those last words, not to repeat this debate, but to ensure that we keep each other a bit whole and that we respect this institution, which is so important to us. That is why I accept Mr Sjoerdsma's invitation to ask him a substantive question, because I would be very sorry that something as important as our foreign policy is disturbed and hijacked by this remark, no matter how many objections all the other parties have against it. So I am going to try to bring this debate back to its content. Mr Sjoerdsma made a plea for European strength and also talked about Belarus. There was recently a request from four countries in Europe for a statement of support. Now I can imagine that Mr Sjoerdsma did not fully agree with all the wording in that statement of support, but I noticed that he did not support it, which means that we in the Netherlands did not support that statement of support, whereas several other European countries and the European Parliament did. I would like a response from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you for the introduction by Mr Brekelmans. I can very much underline his words. There is no greater honour than being a Member of Parliament and there is no greater honour than being able to represent our people in this beautiful parliament and to give it as much dignity as possible. We are perhaps doing the best we can by redirecting the debate back to its content. In fact, my group did not support the relevant statement to which Mr Brekelmans refers. That is not because we do not support the general line of that statement, let that be clear. That is the general line of great concern about what was happening at the border between Poland and Belarus and the desire and need to act against it, the need for European unity. But there were indeed elements in it too, I think that Mr Van der Lee has described them strikingly, just like Mr Piri, in the Volkskrant itself, I think, which made it impossible for me to support them. This also has to do with a difference of opinion, for example, on how the European right of asylum works and what we should and should not do with it. I myself believe that we should not look at this through the glasses of asylum or migrants, but through the glasses of blackmail, an attempt to distract from the repression that is taking place in Belarus and the great Russian forces that are collapsing at the border of Ukraine. As far as I am concerned, that is the debate. In that respect, I found that some of the proposals in this letter distracted from them. Was it a dilemma? Yes, it was absolutely, so I say to Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u159	Good. Mrs Piri, PvdA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. I was hoping you might take a lunch break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yeah, I'm on that, too. Maybe after you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u162	Oh, after me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u163	Just to calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u164	May I try to bring the debate back to its content?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u165	Sorry to interrupt, but we have a pretty long program today. I want to see what's wise, but this was also my thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u166	Okay. I was hoping you'd suspend me before lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mr. Chairman. After this low, I suggest we suspend for lunch. Mrs. Piri can continue after that. Because what Forum for Democracy has shown here today is gross and scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u169	That's good; so was my thought. I just wanted to have a word with the plenary to see if that was wise in the planning. Then I'm just gonna suspend. In 45 minutes we will resume the debate, hopefully under a slightly more positive light.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u170	I should like to give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen. I can be open about that. I deliberately suspended a little longer because I think it's okay to let the moods calm down a little after everything that happened this morning. Not only that, but I also asked Mr Van Houwelingen whether he would like to nuance once again the words that were really addressed to Mr Sjoerdsma in a personal sense in the sense that he did not mean it as a personal threat. Mr Van Houwelingen is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u171	Indeed, to calm the moods a little more; that will be clear. I'll be very brief. We believe that major crimes have been committed and that they should ever be investigated legally, but my words are, of course, never meant as some kind of threat to Mr Sjoerdsma or anyone else. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you. I am very grateful for your willingness to do so. I think that we should get back to the substance of this debate on the Foreign Affairs budget. I would like to give Mrs Piri the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you, Mr President. However, it is good that a longer suspension has led to the withdrawal of these terrible words and threats against Mr Sjoerdsma. I'm happy about that, but of course those threats should never have been made. Mr. Chairman. In the debate on the world and its place, you will not be surprised that in my speech I will focus on the issues of democracy and human rights. This year's influential think tank Freedom House indicated that there have never been so many unfree countries in recent history. The painful conclusion reached by Freedom House is that democracy is experiencing a crisis because its most prominent examples are not doing enough to defend it. We can also charge ourselves with this. I am disappointed that the outgoing cabinet has not come up with any kind of initiative in addition to all the fine words that have been said in recent years. My group believes that we must show that we are committed to the protection of human rights and democracy. We have a reputation to lose as a protector of international law. In the absence of initiatives on the part of the government, I would like to make a number of suggestions. Mr. Chairman. Last month, Prime Minister Rutte spoke to his Polish colleague on the attacks on the rule of law. But why don't we put butter on the fish now? Where are the additional funds to support human rights fighters, the free press and independent justice in countries such as Poland and Hungary? Together with GroenLinks, we will make a proposal to make additional resources available for this purpose. Another problem within Europe is the Istanbul Convention, which must prevent violence against women and girls. Ten years after the signing of this important treaty, there are still six EU countries that have not ratified it. Is the Cabinet prepared to revive the Istanbul Convention? The Labour Party considers it high time to launch an offensive to put the fight against violence against women back on the European political agenda. Where is the action of this cabinet when it comes to the human rights situation in the Rif region in Morocco? Peaceful protesters of the Hirak movement are still unjustly in prison. For several months we have been waiting for the promised letter from the cabinet, which should include what the Dutch commitment to this subject is. When's the letter coming? As we speak, innocent people are in a court of law in Greece, where a prison sentence hangs over their heads for up to 25 years, because as aid workers they save people at sea. They're not criminals, they're heroes. Show courage and stand behind these people, I'd like to say to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the subject where the Minister is sitting, against his own expectation, in the House. I am talking about Afghanistan and the difficult evacuations. Soon we will have a wide-ranging debate in this Chamber. The front pages don't make it anymore, but the poignant cry for help that still comes to us is no less bad. I am therefore surprised to read in the Volkskrant this morning that the cabinet says that the security guards who guarded the Dutch diplomats in Kabul are to be excluded from evacuation. This must be a mistake. It's up to the Minister to put that right here. Another priority is the collection of evidence of human rights violations. I am pleased that the government is already committed to this in the countries of Belarus, Myanmar and Syria. Crimes against humanity must never go unpunished. Is the Minister prepared to also launch a evidence bank for human rights violations by the Taliban, who have already started executions and corporal punishment? Because no matter how far it may seem out of sight, the preparations for prosecution and trial of crimes begin when they are in progress. Does the Minister, like the PvdA, see an important role for the Netherlands not only to finance ad hoc but also more structuralally, for example with a separate fund, evidence banks worldwide? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to talk about Belarus. This has already been discussed by my predecessors, my fellow Members. That is a subject that has been on our minds since last year's stolen elections. In Brussels, the Netherlands demanded additional sanctions against the Lukashenko regime. Let there be no misunderstanding: the Labour Party supports tough measures against this dictator, but to my group's surprise last week it became clear that trade between our country and the regime is still flourishing. In fact, four successive European sanction packages have had no visible effect on our trade volume with that country. How can we continue to give oxygen to Lukashenko to continue his nauseous practices? Is the Netherlands avoiding sanctions? If not, I'd like to hear the explanation. I would also like to hear what the cabinet is going to do to make sure that the money flow stops. If sanctions as an instrument are to be effective, we will have to close the loopholes in the law. Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to the cabinet for taking over a plan by GroenLinks and the Labour Party to fund 50 scholarships for Belarusian students in Europe this year. I would like to hear from the Minister what is going on with the drafting of this motion and when the first students can be welcomed. And then there is the poignant situation at the border between Belarus and the EU. The degrading use of migrants to put pressure on neighbouring countries is a new hybrid form of warfare, with eight deaths. While Poland and the Baltic States are now considering using Article 4 of the NATO Treaty, we must recognise that this affects European security in particular and that a military response may not be the most obvious. The European Union has its own assistance clause, but it focuses on traditional threats. The PvdA therefore wants the cabinet to make a serious effort to reform this so-called Article 42.7. At the European external borders, hybrid warfare has been the order of the day for many years. It is therefore high time this article, which obliges assistance, also applied to the threats of the 21st century and to clarify the means available to the EU in the event of aggression. Is the Minister prepared to make a short-term commitment to this in Brussels? Mr President, I will conclude. Today's world doesn't always cheer up. The democratic recession and attempts to blur international standards and make the world less free will continue. But my group's appeal to the cabinet is not to sit down and, if it does not, to put a little bit on top of it, to support courageous human rights fighters, wherever in the world, and to come up with initiatives to make the world more freer and democratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u174	Thank you, Mrs Piri. I now turn to Mrs Mulder, CDA. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Brekelmans on the beautiful maiden speech he has made today. That's democracy, too. Thanks also to Theo van Toor, who has done so much for our committee. I'm grateful to him for that. A lot of colleagues can learn from that. And I think we're all doing the same thing. I would also like to thank the outgoing minister, because we appreciate that he has just taken up this job. That is something special and certainly not self-evident at this time. That's what I want to say. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I've got a cold. You might hear it in my voice. It sounds a little nasal. I've been tested; it's not a corona. So a little sleep and then I'll get rid of it, I hope. Then there's the Foreign Affairs budget. It is an apparently clear budget, but it is a budget with a very big task. Most of the expenditure relates to the global postal network and to the Ministry itself. It's called "device costs." And then, of course, there is the contribution to the EU. As a small country, we have a direct interest in a strong Europe and other international fora. This is particularly true if we want to be a global driver of our European standards, if we want to remove trade barriers and hear from our business when there is a need for support if the relationships are uneven when it is competing with states. Stand on it. In doing so, we help our companies to have a level playing field abroad, and so we provide jobs here in the Netherlands, and thus prosperity and well-being for our families. One of these standards is the stable international legal order. For this, it is important that the Netherlands is a reliable international partner. The Netherlands is one of the founding fathers of the EU. We have shown that we dared to lead the way with reforms, that we pay attention to people whose human rights are being violated and that we keep naming and raising these violations time and time again. Today we are calling for attention to be paid to the changing world relations and how we can respond to them. We want to talk about the situation at the external borders, such as that of the Baltic States. Our border doesn't end at Hazeldonk. The situation at the border between Poland and Belarus is also under pressure due to the reprehensible agenda of Lukashenko. I would also like to talk about climate change and the Middle East peace process. Mr. Chairman. Today's major challenges are climate, migration, cyber attacks, disinformation and economic instability. Safety is linked to all these themes. These are the themes with which we shape the international playing field. Moreover, the world is economically totally disturbed by the scarcity of raw materials, the uneven rebooting of economies and the imbalance of the global system of sea containers. These changes are not necessarily positive for Europe. We need to revisit the world and assess it on opportunities and challenges, and we need to be proactive. Global panels have been sliding for a while. Covid only makes that clearer. After more than a year in lockdown this week, it has only become clear that we are still not there, we are awakening in a world in which the challenges have only become greater. Major challenges are of a global nature. Covid or its successors will disrupt international organisation for a while to come. That is why our group believes it is important that we strengthen global health care. Can the Minister state what his agenda is on that point? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Last week I was with a number of colleagues at the climate summit in Glasgow. Climate change also requires a global approach. The fight against climate change connects us with countries that, like us, are below sea level and that also have to adapt to changing circumstances. Many of these countries do not feel heard. Europe is fulfilling its climate finance commitments, but the world is failing. With all our knowledge, should we be able to come up with technological and innovative solutions? The European Union started with coal and steel. Let us take the next steps in this tradition, especially in the area of climate. Mr. Chairman. For our group, transatlantic cooperation is the cornerstone of our Western international order. At the same time, we see US attention shifting to the Pacific. In this world, therefore, we will also have to look for like-minded countries, with which we can live up to our ambitions in terms of economy, climate and geopolitics. We will need to strengthen relations with the world's largest democracy: India. We would think that would be wise. As far as we are concerned, this can be done both at national and European level. We see opportunities in terms of security, climate and economy. We saw what happened to the final statement at the climate summit in Glasgow. Then I wonder: how could we have paid more attention to this at the front? What opportunities are there for Europe and the Netherlands? Has Europe, with Mr Timmermans in the lead, invested enough in this at the front of the process? Mr. Chairman. On 9 and 10 December, US President Biden will organise the first two digital conferences on democracy. This is a time when all these like-minded countries are coming together. Our question is: what will the Netherlands bring in during this digital conference? Who will participate on behalf of the Netherlands? I would also ask the Minister, after this conference, to share with the Chamber what the Dutch succession is in 2022 and how we can make this American initiative a success. I'm also asking the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u176	There's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u177	I'm almost at the end of my paragraph. I also ask the Minister what he thinks is necessary to make that a success. Can he tell us how we can strengthen that Atlantic alliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u178	There is a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u179	I'll come back to the part about the climate. I also know that Mrs Mulder was present at the climate summit in Glasgow, although she was not there as long as she wanted, I think. I hear her asking legitimate questions. I find that interesting. But I also have a question for the CDA. On a number of points it was really disappointing what happened in Glasgow. She's referring to the biggest extortionists. You can see in the dynamics that the discussions about climate finance and about loss and damage have really been a stumbling block. The next climate summit will take place in Egypt. Does she agree with GroenLinks that this cabinet, as well as the next cabinet, should step up its efforts to achieve greater progress in the area of climate finance, so that the necessary progress can really be made in Egypt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u180	I share Mr Van der Lee's analysis that these were important points last week in Glasgow. I don't think that was entirely new, but we were surprised anyway. I'm thinking, "How is that possible?" Where's the cause? That India did that... A number of years ago, I was at an IPU meeting, that is, of the Interparliamentary Union. That's what my colleague from India said. I have already put it into several debates: know that this funding issue is a very big issue; we will have to find new coalitions for that. And I think that certainly a country like India, which still has 4,000 kilometres of disputed borders with China, could be a partner in other areas for us as well. Then I think you should look together at how you can ensure that the world, the Western world that has promised to do more, fulfills its obligations. At the same time I say: Europe does that, doesn't it? So we shouldn't pretend we're not doing anything. I think that's the other side of the story. But we also need to talk to each other in Western countries: how can we take another step; or can you invest even more in a smart way? These are all questions that I put to the cabinet. I did so in the run-up to the United Nations General Assembly. I asked questions about this too, because you have to switch to all those supplies. That is what you have to do as the Netherlands, but that is what you have to do as Europe. For my part, this is now being left too much to the Dutch Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, and his Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u181	I'm glad to hear that, because I share that analysis. Whether Europe is doing enough can be contested; it does not apply to all Member States. But does the CDA agree with me that one of the forums in which this discussion should be conducted should be much more strongly, in addition to the forums it mentioned, is the OECD? Because there are most countries, or almost all countries that are supposed to make those contributions. And that it is also important that there be a clearer agreement on what is meant by fair share, because now every country can interpret it for itself, and then you can't get any further with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u182	Well, I'm sure there's another blow in that, or you'll stay at the point where you're sitting. And I do not think that is the agreement we made in Paris, and that is what we must stand up for. A colleague from Belgium indicated at that IPU meeting last week that they are also watching this in the Council of Europe. That's what we're in, isn't it? So we need to move in all these areas and make sure that we can do it. Because in the end they also benefit in India that we can move towards that 1.5 degree. Now they act as if they have a lot of costs or budget, so they can go on a bit longer, but they also know that it is important for their children that you do not manage with that 1.5 degree if they also continue on the road on which they continue. The same applies, of course, to China. So everyone's got their share in that, and we just have to talk to people because otherwise you're just not gonna make it. Mr. Chairman. Globally, and also in Europe, the rule of law is under pressure. And I mean not only the countries you might expect it from; countries that were on the right track also seem to fall back. Covid, climate change, migration crises, everything is being used to strengthen xenophobia and anti-Semitic sentiments. And unfortunately more and more echoes from the past sound; again today in our Parliament. Disinformation plays a major role in this. We must take strong action against this, because our democracy is under pressure. Actually, we're in a cyber war almost completely continuous. We shouldn't be naive about that. This was underlined yesterday in our conversation with Mr Milov from Navalny's team. They, too, deserve our support. Europe, and with it the Netherlands, is facing a new front. On the border with Belarus, migrants are used as political means. Proactive foreign policy by standing alongside the Baltic States and also Poland, we as CDA consider desirable. As the Foreign Affairs Committee, we were able to experience this ourselves during our work visit to the Baltic States. The stories we heard, they don't put you in cold clothes. The cabinet states that effective European cooperation will in the coming years be the subject of an investigation into the consequences of the integration of Belarus and Russia into a Union state, and what that means for the EU and NATO. Our question is: when will this research be carried out? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister on how and where we can support the Baltic States, and I am referring specifically to the opposition in Belarus. The British have recently sent people to the Polish border. Is that also an option for the Netherlands? And what additional sanctions does the Minister see? We find Russia's enormous troop-building on the border with Ukraine very, very worrying. Is the Minister aware of this troop-building? To what extent is this discussed in NATO? This is also important because the US and France have said that they want to take an extra look at it. And then I wonder, what is the state of our government? Have any agreements been made on this subject in the context of NATO? If all this is not clear at the moment, we will also have a debate next week, and then perhaps the Minister can send us a comprehensive letter for that debate. Mr. Chairman. Then Israel and Palestine. In the budget, the Minister states that the conflict between Israel and Palestine calls for our continued attention. I'll share that. That's why I want to discuss it now. The peace process continues, but seems to be particularly visible to the general public when the armed conflict flares up and peace is a long way from being sought. There are no shellings at the moment, so it is necessary to create room for conversation. Can the Minister indicate what is now being done to facilitate the peace process? Mr. Chairman. I do not have the illusion that the conflict can be resolved from this Chamber, but we may be able to facilitate dialogue, perhaps better than we are doing now. And if parties go over the line, on both sides, then we have to dare to name it. Does the Minister do that enough, does he think? We notice that people continue with the settlements. Of course, it is a good thing to build houses for the Palestinians, but that does not make it right for Israel to continue with the settlements. Mr. Chairman. We have spoken about this before, in the Van Helvert motion. We would like to inform the Minister that we may not be tabling any new motions on this now, but that we do expect him to make a strong effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u183	I'd like to put it in relation to Russia for a moment. When the Russian authorities called Mr Navalny's political party a terrorist organisation, among others, the CDA criticised it. Now six NGOs, which are committed to the human rights of the Palestinians, have been identified as terrorist organisations. How does Mrs Mulder feel about the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u184	I expect the Minister to ask about what is the basis for that. What are the arguments for that? There are also excellent questions asked by colleagues. I'm just very curious about answering those questions. We also know from a few of these organizations that there has been some trouble. It is therefore not the case that there is no reason at all, but it must be done in a state of law and not just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u185	I'll ask the Minister how he feels about that later. However, I believe that Mrs Mulder from the CDA has been able to take the information we have been given, so I am curious to hear Mrs Mulder from the CDA, regardless of the Minister's reply. What is the status of the CDA as a political party in this? That was my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u186	Civil society is always nice to me as a CDA. You'll always hear us about that. This also applies to Israel or other places. I will always speak out on that. But also with NGOs it happens sometimes that it doesn't add up. We also see this more widely in our foreign policy. Unfortunately, subsidies are not always used properly. Then we have to be critical about that, but I'm just curious about what's going on and what's going on. I never have all the information. I don't think Mr Kuzu has one either. But I ask the Minister very clearly to ask for this. We have, of course, also seen the Norwegian Minister, who reacted very firmly to this. I don't know if that's the way, but I think we should discuss this. Mr. Chairman. We would like to inform the Minister that if both parties do not provoke, threaten or escalate, we may be in the brunt of the conflict. Does he want to take steps towards peace? Does he want to help build bridges between both sides? We ask the Cabinet to intensify the good projects at these moments. One of the projects that inspires us is, for example, the Communication Middle East project. It's been around for 40 years. This has been organising dialogue seminars between young Israelis and Palestinians in neutral areas for decades. Does the Minister know this organization, abbreviated COME? And does he see any chance of continuing to support this good example? Because it always starts with dialogue and knowing each other. Finally, Mr President. We hear reports of escalation at the border in the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia. There would have been casualties on the Armenian side. We ask the Minister to reflect on this too, because this is not going in the right direction. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you. There is another question from Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u188	We have heard Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 make a fervent plea for the establishment of an EU army. I wonder what the CDA thinks about that. Mr Sjoerdsma wanted the EU to put an organisation in charge of an army with the attention span of a toddler. I ask the CDA spokeswoman: how are you looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u189	Of course, I do not share that comparison made by Mr De Roon of the PVV. We always try to move forward in Europe through good cooperation. So I'm glad we have Europe. We, the Netherlands, simply need these international forums very much. I am more charmed by the path of transatlantic cooperation with NATO. So I would always look at what you can do under the NATO flag at first. That would be my route. Otherwise, you might want to see if you can do business with a number of fellow countries. We can see that we are already working together. We've been to the Baltic States. There we were at a joint club from the Netherlands and Germany. There is really intensive cooperation there. Those are wonderful examples. That's what I like to be inspired by. You might also be able to take a few more steps at European level to work together, for example through a head office, which should therefore work. I do not think that, at a time when these two routes are not yet sufficient, does not exclude the future. I would only always intrinsically initially choose the route of the transatlantic NATO route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u190	That's obvious. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u191	This is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u192	But does this mean that Mrs Mulder says: we are closing the door to an EU army? Unless, of course, I say we keep it closed. 'Cause you were always against that. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u193	Yes. We're still against that. We are against an EU army, but we do say that sometimes you have to work together. Because these threats are sometimes so great that you can't do it alone, even as the Netherlands. That is why I am pleased that we have partners in the EU. We have partners in the NATO talks. I'd like to concentrate on that. I am actually quite proud that we are working well within NATO with a party like Germany. Especially after all of history, I find that extra special. It's still in my memory that we were allowed to stand there on that field, 10 kilometers from the border with Belarus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u194	In my speech, I made a plea for a court of evidence for the Taliban and the crimes they are already committing. Of course, we're holding our hearts for what's going to happen in Afghanistan. My question is really simple: is that something the CDA could support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u195	We also have one of those courts of evidence for Iraq. There we see with those Jezidis that it is very important that the evidence of the genocide that has been carried out on them is well collected. Sometimes, of course, these lawsuits take so long that it may take up to ten years to make sure that it is also important that you have people on the ground who can help you collect those evidence. Those are organizations from there, too. Together with my colleague Anne Kuik, who deals with BuHa-OS, I had a good conversation with the Jezidi community. It's already important that you build that up. If you do that there, then I think it would be very wise to do so with regard to specific groups in Afghanistan. So I want to take a positive look at how we could do that. But such a evidence bank, in order to be able to conduct good business later, seems to me to be quite essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u196	I'm glad the CDA is willing to look at that with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u197	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u198	Can I ask Mrs Mulder another question about Belarus? Because it's horrible what Lukashenko does. There's no misunderstanding about that. It seems that the flow of migrants towards the Polish border stops, because the airlines stop flying to Minsk. This may lead to a group remaining at the border in appalling conditions. There's no food, there's no drinking, there's cold. There's ten dead already. What does Mrs Mulder think should happen to that group? If we don't get back, should we help them? Do they have the right to an asylum procedure? How does the CDA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u199	Thank you for this sharp and, of course, very difficult question. This is about people. You'd better stand there yourself! At the same time, these people have all come on a tourist visa that way. Have Lukashenko bring them back to where they came from. Lukashenko has taken on these problems. He's abused these people horribly. It would adorn Lukashenko if he just took the people back to where they came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Mr van der Lee van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like once again to congratulate Mr Brekelmans on a wonderful maiden speech. I thank him for his willingness to seek and enter into the discussion immediately. And we'll keep doing that. I too would very much like to thank Theo van Toor. I haven't been a member of the committee for very long, but I appreciate his role in that. I share with him many years of habitation of the Binnenhof. He's always been a familiar face to me. On behalf of others who have been around for a long time, many thanks and good luck in the future. Whoever I want to thank is the Minister. I find it special that someone is willing to take on this role in these uncertain times. Of course, I would also like to thank all the officials. These are weird times. When I talk about foreign policy, I don't get away from it. I'm from that generation of "G.B.J." to think about G.B.J. Hiltermann, who spent 43 years discussing the situation in the world. That feeling is now happening to me as a member of this committee. There's so much going on in the world, so much unrest and conflict. But there's a red thread in it. And that common thread is Mr Piri already mentioned that the space for democracies, for individual rights of people, for organisations of people, is getting smaller and smaller. Unfortunately, this is the case in many parts of the world, even within Europe. This means that there are many issues where these rights, these freedoms, need to be fought. The Netherlands is a blessed country, in the sense that we are prosperous, one of the most prosperous countries. We also have economic interests, and we can defend them. But we have a constitutional duty to defend the international legal order, where we can contribute to defend democratic rights, fundamental rights of individuals and their organisations. That is why I have a number of issues that I would like to raise. First of all, Afghanistan. I would like to join Mrs Piri's justified question on the Volkskrant article: what about those guards who were perhaps not directly employed by the Netherlands but by a company that worked for the Netherlands? Do they also have the right to be brought to the Netherlands and to offer them a safe future? I am also very much in favour of the idea of a proof bank for Afghanistan. Also topical, and we have already talked about this, is the situation in Belarus. My party has called with others for additional sanctions, a fifth sanction package. It has been decided, but what exactly is it going to include? There have indeed been justified questions put by Mr Brekelmans about Belavia. How exactly do we deal with that? Strong sanctions are therefore necessary in any case. At the same time, my group also calls for attention to be paid to the provision of direct humanitarian aid to people trapped in the situation at the border. Here too, European solidarity is appropriate. There is a need for an asylum procedure, including for these people, and also for solidarity if it is right, in the reception of these people. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this? Specifically when it comes to sanctions, I'm glad that letter came last night. I had also asked the cabinet many times whether we should not strengthen our efforts and our knowledge in the sanctioning unit, because smart, intelligent sanctions are more effective. Sanctions that were broad and affected the population sometimes even strengthened the position of authoritarian regimes. So you need to introduce a different type of sanctions. We have taken steps in this, but that requires knowledge and skills, many different expertises. It's a good thing we're paying attention to that now. What I find very strange is that the amount of EUR 1 million is not structurally available in the budget. Fortunately, there is now an amendment, I myself had one in preparation and I would like to join the coalition, but I still have the question as to why this could not be done directly from the Ministry. More European steps have also been taken in how we deal with sanctions. At the same time, you can also see that countries deal with it differently. Mr Piri is right to draw attention to the fact that our trade with Belarus does not appear to have fallen significantly. But there are also different ways of dealing with sanctions in other countries. My question to the Minister is to what extent further harmonisation is possible within the European Union in sanctions policy. Can he make an effort to do that? The freedom that is also under pressure is freedom of the press. We recently saw it with the Dutch correspondent who was evicted in Russia. I also read that Ingeborg Beugel is leaving Greece because she is threatened, because she was too critical about pushbacks on the Greek border. But we also see Belarus, the kidnapping on Roman Protaseevich's plane. Those are all actions that are reprehensible. This also requires extra effort and additional protection. Countries such as Canada, Denmark and Sweden offer journalists life-threatening structural protection. What about the implementation of the Dassen/Van der Lee motion on facilitating emergency visas for journalists? Is the Minister also prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Netherlands, for example, could save 50 journalists and part of their families from a life-threatening situation and also provide shelter in the Netherlands? Then, quite rightly, much has been said about China. The performance is becoming increasingly self-confident, assertive and aggressive towards specific ethnic groups. There are many abuses, which we often talk about, towards the Uighurs, the Tibetans, the increasing threat towards Taiwan and also all kinds of activities in the South China Sea. And now specifically the message that Dutch DNA kits would be used to store the appearances of Tibetans and Uighurs for Chinese mass surveillance. Is the Minister prepared to find out what is going on here and does he not agree with me that if this is the case, the policy should also be strengthened in the context of dual use goods? It cannot be the case that the Netherlands contributes to systematic oppression, humiliation and also torturing population groups in China. In this context, I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that there is every reason to refrain from a Dutch delegation to the Beijing Games. Then there's the rule of law. It's under pressure, including in Poland. We often talk about this too. I see that there are signs that there seems to be a movement to make a financial contribution to Poland from the new recovery and resilience fund, without making too much demands. An appeal has been made by almost the entire European Parliament, at least by the largest groups, at the initiative of the Greens, to say very clearly to the Commission: do not do that. Is that still the position of the Netherlands? Will we continue to demand that the rule of law in Poland be secured better than it is now before we agree to new transfers? I would also like to dwell on Israel and Palestine. It is right what Mrs Mulder said about this, namely that sometimes it seems as if we are only talking about it when there is another escalation of violence and there are many victims. It is a long-term conflict and I am curious to see what steps are being taken in the peace process. What about the investigation initiated by the UN? What is the Netherlands doing in response to marginalising and actually criminalising civil society organisations that have been active for years? They are being dismissed as terrorist organisations. Do we therefore condemn Israel and are we prepared to assist these organisations, diplomatically and perhaps financially, to ensure that they can continue to fulfil their role? We can't accept this type of behavior. I would also like to draw attention to climate diplomacy. Fortunately, Mrs. Mulder has already mentioned it. I think it is very crucial to the next climate summit in Egypt that we are doing much more about climate finance and that we are also taking the discussion about loss and damage seriously. There's a huge price tag on that, too. The Netherlands does what it has promised, but that is its own interpretation. There are others, NGOs but also other countries, who calculate the fair share differently. I hope that the new coalition will take steps in this direction, but I call on the cabinet to prepare itself for climate diplomacy in the coming year to ensure that real progress is made at the summit in Egypt. Finally, on raw materials. That is what we discussed during the debate on Mali. The struggle for raw materials is a very important source of conflict. I think it is important that we build up knowledge and skills to better analyse how this battle is going, so that we can better predict where conflicts are threatening. That knowledge must be applied and used in our foreign policy, in our development policy and in the choices and decisions on missions, if necessary. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u202	Thank you to Mr Van der Lee. Mr Brekelmans has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u203	I very much agree with that last plea and I also think that we should consider the role of the Netherlands and the European Union in this. I have a question for Mr Van der Lee. Like Mrs Piri, he rightly began to sketch that human rights and democracy are under pressure. He actually says: what we should do in particular is expose that even more and use instruments that we have been using for years even more. I would like to ask him: if we consider what is happening in the world, what is underneath it? China and Russia are becoming more autocratic and maintain countries and regimes that also violate human rights. What are the underlying causes that we need to address? I fear that merely appointing more human rights and putting some resources into it, as we have done in the past, is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you for this question, on an almost philosophical or perhaps ideological level. It is my belief that much of the conflicts in the world are caused by a combination of extreme inequality and exploitation of our environment. We are with an increasing number of people in the world. That growth continues towards the 10 billion. That is simply because people live longer. The number of children born has now stabilised. This leads to a struggle on scarce raw materials and on who owns the power and resources. That is why I am also a GroenLinkser, because I think that you need to tackle such fundamental injustices and inequalities in order to remove incentives for conflict. I can also see that this is extremely complex, that it requires a lot of idealism to take steps in it, and also the willingness to make sacrifices sometimes. The Netherlands has a certain tradition in this. We are a country of human rights, we work here in the city of peace and justice. But we are also very pre-emptive with our own prosperity, with our economic earning model, we want to be in the first place for a dime. It's not always the same. Sometimes you have to make a sacrifice for a greater purpose, and so is my party. That's not everyone in the world, and that's too bad. It requires a permanent political struggle in a democratic manner without violence, and that is what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u205	Much of what Mr Van der Lee says has been stolen from my heart. He's fighting the same social struggle, and we'll find each other there. The same applies to Nord Stream 2, where there is now a new development which I am curious to see where GroenLinks sees the next step. We have always fought together against the pipeline being built, and now Germany has stopped certification. That raises the question of what next step the Netherlands should take to ensure that Nord Stream 2 never comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u206	Thanks for the question. As GroenLinks, we have also opposed it because it creates a new geopolitical weapon. It is not necessary from the point of view of energy policy, there are already pipelines that can transport enough gas. I believe that this choice has been made in Germany. There's been a mock-up. The ownership of that pipeline is housed with a daughter of Gazprom and is therefore still owned by Gazprom, and Gazprom is controlled by Putin. That has rightly been put on hold, and I call on the Dutch Government to discuss with Germany as soon as the coalition agreement with the new coalition is in place how we can work together to stop this pipeline. I hope that my party colleagues who are going to sit in that coalition, together with the ideological friends of the PvdA, will take steps to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u207	Mr Van der Lee, like me, spoke about the climate summit, and I mentioned India's crucial role. I wondered how Mr Van der Lee looked at India's role and position and how we could work with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u208	I welcome this question. India is the largest democracy in the world in terms of numbers, even though there are rights and civil society organisations under pressure. I happen to read this morning that in Delhi hospitals and schools are closed. And why? Because the smog from the coal power stations is so big that you can barely breathe. India has a very serious environmental problem. It also has a huge problem of poverty. It needs expensive energy for its inhabitants, and it is very important that we use our knowledge and skills there. We must be prepared to invest in this, and that can be done in a democracy, even if it is India. We need to help in that transition, and at the same time I think we need to step up pressure on India, China and America, because those are the biggest outbursts. They should not choose too easily to weaken their ambitions. At the same time, other countries that want us to deliver on our promises on climate finance, and we must do so. This will also increase the pressure on India. But I also agree with Mrs Mulder's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u209	And you were at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u210	That was me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u211	Thank you. I call Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating the clerk. I would like to thank him for his years of work and commitment. I would also like to congratulate Mr Brekelmans on his beautiful and moving maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. We live in a world with changing power relations and instability. These developments take place both a little further away and close by. Think of the further global influence of major powers such as China and the human rights crisis in Yemen and Ethiopia. And think of developments close by, such as the current unstable situation at the Polish border. These challenges call for a robust foreign policy, where our commitment should be to make the world safer, more prosperous, fairer and more sustainable. This is a policy in which human rights play a prominent role. Why are these human rights so important to the Christian Union? And why are they an important starting point for foreign policy? Because no human being deserves human rights in one way or another. Human rights are not dependent on, and based on, the part of the world where your cradle happens to be, but human rights are based on the fact that everyone has an inherent value and dignity. As a Christian Union, we also believe that is in the image of our Creator. If we strive to treat and protect our fellow human beings fairly and with integrity, for example by seeking national and international justice for our fellow human beings, then that action in itself is also a reflection of this Creator. That is why I am really committed to this budget in a number of areas where human rights play a prominent role. As mentioned earlier by colleagues, these human rights are under pressure in different parts of the world, for example not so far away from the Polish border with Belarus. The situation at the border between the European Union and Belarus can be described for good reason as a form of hybrid warfare. In a reprehensible and cynical way, people are being used as a political weapon. Why do I say "cynic"? Because fast agreements on migration, reception and return are indeed an Achilles heel of the EU. Other countries know this and are now playing into it. Mr. Chairman. Sanctions are also being used. I've heard my predecessors on that, too. I would also like to make a number of motions on this subject. But I would also like to ask whether it is possible to get Belarus out of the SWIFT system, the banking system, just to hit the system where it really hurts. There are a number of parties in the European Parliament that are in favour of this. I would also like to ask for a Dutch commitment to this. How's the minister looking at this? I'm considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. This vulnerability shows once again how important it is for the Netherlands and especially the EU countries together to use their economic influence to force or even force the countries with which we relate to respect human rights. We see that regimes that violate human rights do us real harm in the end. For this reason, the objective of promoting human rights becomes a strategically important and starting point in itself. We therefore also call for a stop-lamp system, so that a country's human rights situation is always involved, for example, in missions. Think of including a human rights paragraph in agreements, scaling down government representation at events or reconsidering or even suspending agreements and trade deals. Does the Minister agree with me that economic enforceability can also be an important means? And if so, how does he intend to implement this in the coming years through foreign policy? The situation in West Papua is also a concrete example of a situation in which human rights are under pressure. West Papua is an area with which the Netherlands has a historical connection. Amnesty International has reported, in the last three years alone, 96 deaths due to violence by the Indonesian security forces or police in Papua. But journalists and human rights organisations do not have access to the area. The Indonesian President promised in 2018 that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights would be allowed to visit West Papua, but unfortunately that has not yet happened. The Netherlands always addresses human rights bilaterally in talks. But does the Minister agree with me that progress should be made on this dossier? Perhaps we should also use other middle, economic resources here. On this point, too, I am considering a motion. I'd like to hear the Minister's commitment. Mr. Chairman. Just yesterday, Azerbaijan carried out another attack on Armenian territory. Here too, human rights are under pressure. There are also reports of the destruction of Armenian cultural heritage in Nagorno-Karabakh. I would like the Minister to be aware of the facts of last night and of the last few days, and to inform the Court of Justice about them. Also, Armenian prisoners of war have not always been released and not all have been released. What impact should this have on our attitude towards Azerbaijan, I ask the Minister. Should Azerbaijan's attitude to this conflict, and also to democratic freedoms in its own country, not affect cooperation with that country, for example in the Eastern Partnership? Here too, I call for a reflection from the Minister. I'm considering tabling a motion on this, too. That depends on that reflection. When we talk about human rights, that also means standing up for those who are persecuted on the basis of what they believe. The choice to believe or not to believe is also under pressure. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the protection and support of victims of religious persecution deserves additional support. That is why we also want to table an amendment for additional funds for the Protecting Belief Rapid Response Fund at Freedom House. In addition, we are pleased with the work of the Dutch Envoy of Faith in this area. We would also like to see the work continue, even if the present envoy says goodbye. How does the Minister look at the Envoy of Faith in the Netherlands? Unfortunately, the EU position of religious envoy is once again vacant. That's too bad. Can we expect an insight from the Minister that this EU position will soon be fulfilled? We also consider the work of UN envoys to be important. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the amendment we tabled earlier to support the UN Envoy with an additional EUR 2 million? What is the position with regard to the campaign against the death penalty on apostasy and blasphemy, to which the Chamber has previously called on the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the escalating conflict in Ethiopia, where the situation seems to be getting worse. The UN has now indicated its intention to sue all parties for war crimes. I would like to ask the Minister how he is now indicating the conflict there. What conclusions does he draw from the investigation of the conflict by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights? How many displaced persons have caused this increase in the fight? According to the Minister, what should be the EU's position on the latest developments? There is also criticism, for example, that the EU and US stance could have encouraged TPLF to continue the fight. How does the Minister view this, even in the weighting of the reports we have been able to read over the last few days? Finally, Mr President. Human rights and the various other issues, as I mentioned earlier, are not a final part of our foreign policy. We believe that this is the starting point, from which our strategic considerations and commitment should arise when it comes to promoting the international legal order and the Dutch interests. I hope that this can also be reflected in the commitment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u213	Thank you, Mr Ceder. Mr Van Houwelingen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For us, this kind of debate is always a bit strange because, as you know, we naturally rely on national sovereignty. We are very critical of supranational organisations and we want to get out of them in principle. We are therefore in favour of a nexit and against the European Union. We think it is particularly important that we first look at ourselves. This has been mentioned by one participant in this debate. Mrs Mulder pointed out that we can rightly point out all kinds of countries and that we can point them to human rights and a democracy that is not guaranteed, but the problem, of course, lies primarily with our country itself. Of course, there is a lot wrong in that, including our democracy. As you know, the last few referenda results have been ignored by the cabinet. The referendum has even been abolished. In the Netherlands, of course, this is a very worrying fact: it is a fusion of all kinds of institutions. We call that "the job carousel." This is the case, for example, with people who are in the cabinet. We saw it with former Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen, who started working as a lobbyist on a portfolio on which she was Minister. She was Minister of Energy and became an energy lobbyist. We see it in the media. Politicians go to work in the media and vice versa. We'll just have to look at ourselves first. That's the most important thing. This also applies to the rule of law and the separation of powers. I should like to make one brief point: this also applies, of course, to the introduction of, among other things, this criminal apartheid card. It's the absolute pinnacle. It does not suit us to point a finger; that is our basic attitude. We must respect the sovereignty of other countries. Now I come to the point I've been wanting to make. Of course, we have that lifted finger in this debate. All the countries already visited: Ethiopia, Indonesia, Belarus, Russia. There is another country I would like to talk to you about: Latvia. Latvia is a country in the European Union. We also discussed it yesterday in the debate with the Minister. What happened there? I am going to tell you exactly, because there is some misunderstanding about it, also with Mr Brekelmans, I understand. In Latvia, 61 Members of Parliament have a majority, because 100 Members of Parliament in Latvia have been thrown out of parliament by their nine unvaccinated colleagues. They will no longer be able to participate in the democratic deliberations in any way. They can't vote online either, so it has nothing to do with public health. They don't get paid anymore. They won't be participating in anything tomorrow. They just got thrown out. This has not happened again under the pretext of public health, I say in the direction of Mr Brekelmans, but because of the following. Let me read it to you. This is on Reuters. It's one short sentence. It is in English, so forgive me. It was "necessary to promote public confidence in the government's policies to control COVID-19 infections." In other words, these parliamentarians were apparently too critical of the covid policy in Latvia. Then it was said: you know what, we shouldn't have that; that undermines trust in the government. As far as we're concerned, there can't be enough mistrust, but the new mantra is apparently also something we saw in debate with De Jonge... that you have to trust the government on balance. And if you ask critical questions and, for example, request hospital data, then as a Chamber, you're obviously insane, because then you don't trust the institutions. Apparently, they have that mantra there, too. They were a little too critical and, as I said, they are the parliament. Imagine if this had happened in, for example, Hungary. Imagine that the local department of Volt there is a bit critical, for example on the lhbt policy of Orbán, and that Orbán then says: "That is very bad for our public morality. We can't have that. We need to maintain that trust, so we'll just expel it from parliament." That is a kind of similar argument. Then, of course, everyone would have stepped on their backs. But I haven't heard about it in this debate. It is an EU country. So why isn't anyone talking about this? Why isn't everyone very indignant about this? That's really weird, isn't it? Don't you think so? Doesn't the Minister agree? Now it's quiet, I understand. Anyone may step forward to notice about this, but that is not happening. And what do we conclude from that, for example? That it's kind of hypocritical. That, apparently, it is not about human dignity, democracy and all those big words and all that is being said, but that apparently something else has a role to play. Otherwise, of course, we would have been very indignant about this. So apparently, now I'm coming back to my central point: "The execution, roll-out, the covid policy, the QR code and injections, across the European Union, is more important than these fundamental principles. Otherwise, you would have come forward by now. You would have said something by now, or at least made a protest. We find this incredibly creepy. That's what we think of that. So we come up with two motions. Then we'll have to confess to color again. You might not like that either. We have a motion asking the Minister to address and report to his Latvian colleague next week, and a motion to call on the Latvian Ambassador. That is the least that could happen in this situation. So those motions are coming up. Finally, I have 30 seconds to answer one question for the Minister. I'd really appreciate it if he could answer that. Yesterday in the debate he said: I cannot make any announcements about this; these are Latvia's internal affairs. Gosh. We are talking about other countries' internal affairs all the time. That's even institutionalized. In the European Union, for example, this is called the 'legal dialogue'. And now we can't talk about it. I am therefore very curious to know what criteria the Minister applies, which makes him consider some of the issues to be an internal matter and others apparently not. There must be some kind of criteria for that. I'd like an answer to that. You can do that in a letter form. That's our input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u215	Thank you to Mr Van Houwelingen. Mr Dassen van Volt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations again to Mr Brekelmans for his beautiful contribution, his beautiful maiden speech. And thank you very much to Mr Van Toor. It is remarkable that you have served democracy in this house for so long. It is also good to hear the experiences that many colleagues have had with you. Unfortunately, I had it a little shorter, but thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. We live in a time of great change. International relations are increasingly complex. The global balance of power shifts from west to east. The United States is shifting its focus from Russia and the Middle East to China and the Indo-Pacific. China is on course to become the leader of the new industrial revolution, and is becoming more and more military. War is changing, too. Instead of boots on the ground, we are seeing more and more drone and cyber attacks. Now that the energy transition is not going fast enough, we are becoming more dependent on Russian gas and let Putin play us further and further apart. This poses major challenges for Europe, military, digital and climate. They're all connected. We will have to shape our place in this changing world. Because how do we stay economically strong when the centre of innovation shifts from west to east? How are we preparing for the new economy, not only in the context of technological developments, but also in the light of climate change and the energy transition ahead? How do we maintain European core values, such as human rights, now that refugees are being used as weapons? Mr. Chairman. Are we preparing enough? I read in the Foreign Affairs budget that the cabinet still assumes that it can count on Biden. The Americans will indeed remain an important ally of Europe, but they are increasingly drawing their own line. The events in Afghanistan, which my colleagues have already mentioned, are a tragic example of this. This means that, as Europeans, we must also ensure that we are able to stand up for ourselves more. The U.S. Secretary of State for European Affairs called for this too. I would like to take a brief look at the Secretary of State for European Affairs. We are here with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has also been Secretary of State for European Affairs. Perhaps he can reflect on whether it is indeed necessary to have a Secretary of State for European Affairs again, although I understand from the leaked documents that there might be a Minister for European Affairs. Mr. Chairman. We are approaching the French Presidency, a Presidency with a lot of weight. It is now important to use this Presidency to continue working towards European defence cooperation. The Minister mentioned yesterday in the General Affairs Council that we can save 40% if we buy together as Member States. It is, of course, important that we do not undermine the existing NATO structures, which remain very important for the time being given the relatively small defence budgets in the EU. But let us therefore start with the joint buying-in and let us also work on building a European defence pillar under NATO. Mr. Chairman. The French Presidency will also continue to give substance to strategic autonomy. Our outgoing Prime Minister here earlier this year, with the Spanish Prime Minister, Sánchez, put forward a paper on the importance of this European strategic autonomy. I see in the budget that a budget has also been made available to create this, but what does the French Presidency's cabinet expect in terms of strategic autonomy and how does the government intend to further this discussion in concrete terms in the months before the French elections? And what has already been done in advance by the Dutch cabinet for the presentation of the Presidency in December? Mr. Chairman. European security is not limited to the physical domain. We are already proven vulnerable in the digital domain. For example, see Russian hostage software, spreading disinformation about corona or corporate espionage from e.g. Booking.com or Gemalto. If we are to be able to guarantee our European values, we will also have to arm ourselves digitally. However, the Dutch international cybersecurity policy is too much to follow, says the Cyber Security Council. Moreover, this policy seems never to have been evaluated, I read in the Foreign Affairs budget. The rule of law, corporate property and critical systems in the Netherlands are under great pressure. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet will conduct cyber policy more focused and effective and what the timetable is for the evaluation of current policies. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. When you see the challenges we face as Europeans, it is logical that we should work more together to meet those challenges. But the EU is also playing against each other, not only by emerging world powers but above all by itself, because we focus too much on national interests in the short term, while the longer term European interest would be our interest. Why do we still allow the right of veto to stop the necessary progress? I do see Mr Sjoerdsma nodding. He also asked this question, and rightly so. Where does the Minister see room for abolishing the veto? Mr. Chairman. By not looking beyond national interests, we have also created an Achilles heel that Lukashenko and Putin are taking advantage of. Moreover, the tough attitude of Member States towards refugees who are now literally in the cold is affecting Europe's image as a defender of human rights and, consequently, our international action perspectives on the protection of human rights. We must show character and also try to help these people. At the same time, of course, we must stop the Minsk route, as has already been pointed out by colleagues. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister agreed with his colleagues on Monday to impose targeted sanctions against companies and individuals involved. I also agree with the previous questions that have been asked. But last night we saw that the Polish government is using water cannons against migrants and that the situation is escalating rapidly. The aid organisations also fear that more people will die in the next few days and weeks. This situation is unacceptable. I therefore wonder what the government's commitment in this area is to the humanitarian level. Because now we also need to help solve the crisis at the border, allow aid organisations and give journalists access to provide protection for people in need. Mr. Chairman. In order to protect our European values, we must not only appoint them, but above all respect them. Only then will we stand strong in preventing attempts to break down the European rule of law. The promotion of European values also falls and stands in compliance with European treaties and constitutional conditions. Following the letter from the European Parliament to Von der Leyen, I therefore call on the Minister to stand firm in holding the RRF funds towards Poland and thus to show the Polish people that we support her in the fight against the government there. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, in order to create a solid democratic sound that is increasingly needed in this world, we need to tackle the restriction of freedom of the press firmly. Because this year, reporters Without Borders concluded that the freedom of the press is under pressure from fake news, intimidation and opposition across the continent. Mr Van der Lee mentioned just now that the journalist Beugel left Greece because of threats. It is therefore a good thing that the Netherlands, together with Canada, will chair the Media Freedom Coalition in 2022. In the run-up to the Presidency, I do indeed wonder, for a moment, that this part was also on the train and that Mr Van der Lee had already run away with it, what is the follow-up to the motion of myself and of Mr Van der Lee. I agree with his call to save 50 journalists and family members a year from this life-threatening situation, because that way, at the start of the Dutch Presidency, the Minister can immediately share the fact that the Netherlands is taking action when we, as President, stress the importance of freedom of the press. Mr Van der Lee told us about the next piece. So I can skip that. Still this question: what is the further commitment of the cabinet under the chairmanship of the Media Freedom Coalition? Mr. Chairman. The system is often stuck because of its short-term focus on national interests, while we can no longer afford a standstill, whether it is about security, climate, digitisation or human rights. At a time when we need to work more together, too often we take advantage of each other with European Member States. I say clearly 'European Member States', because many Europeans see this differently. They want more cooperation, at least better cooperation. They want us to stand up for our European values. They see that European cooperation must be more democratic. Volt agrees with the outgoing Prime Minister that the European Union can no longer hold on to the right of veto. Let us build a European parliamentary democracy in which the national interests of the short term go into the background and the general interest of Europeans comes first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u217	There is a question from Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u218	I heard Mr Dassen say very sensible things about defence, about a European pillar under NATO. I think that's a very realistic story. He also called for sanctions against Belarus. I wonder what Mr Dassen would like to do towards countries of origin which are cooperating in the flow of migrants through Belarus. Is he also prepared to use the economic market power that the European Union has for this purpose? And is he prepared to remove, for example, trade advantages that such countries have if they continue to participate in the smuggling of human beings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u219	I think this calls for a broad package. I think we should also look at legal migration routes. But I am also sure that at the moment when countries are not prepared to take people back, we as the European Union need to talk to those countries to make sure that they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u220	That was the short answer. Now we go to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am speaking on behalf of BBB, the BoerCitizen Movement. My neighbor, Mrs. Van der Plas, isn't here right now. Mr. Chairman. Former Minister of Defence Joris Voorhoeve once combined Dutch foreign policy with the words "peace, profits and principles." That's very balanced. At present, however, both the policy and the ministry are out of balance. Too much attention is paid to principles read: human rights policy and too little to profit, i.e. the Dutch interest. This week we were told that Shell will become a British company after 130 years of royality. That is not a miracle after the Urgenda pronunciation, which was provoked by Milieudefensie. This NGO is co-financed by the Dutch government, with tax money. This undermines the Dutch interest. On 1 November 2010, the Minister, when Secretary of State for Development Cooperation, said that NGOs should become less dependent on the government. My question to the Minister is: what is the situation now? Sometimes I feel like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself has become an NGO, one large echo chamber. Take the International Affairs Advisory Council. Its composition is one great on-know-it-us system. A question to the Minister: is there no need for more internal criticism and discussion in the Ministry? And then, colleagues, Europe. In 2018, the Minister, when CDA-senator, said that the Netherlands should stop counterweighting the Franco-German axis. Within the euro area, however, the Dutch interest does not automatically coincide with the French. We see the Recovery Fund as a one-off, while France sees it as permanent, on the road to a transfer union. Also look at the dynamics within that axis. France sees Germany as follows: Deutschland ist das Pferd und wir were es reiten. France often plays on the German spirit and on the historical guilt of getting its way, and often it does. It's a sophisticated strategy. In my opinion, France looks most strategically towards Europe, but in doing so it puts its own stake in the sintering cheese gift paper of European interest and then gives it to Volt as a gift. To use a variant of a statement by French statesman Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand: naivety, she is worse than a crime. I do not, of course, call on the Minister to commit crimes, but rather to keep an eye on the Dutch interest. If not, the cheese will be eaten from our bread. And there's more to it than the Franco-German axis. In the Northern Alliance, we find coalition members who feel similar to us to the EU budget and to finance. And then there's Central Europe. We used to talk about Central Europe as a cultural concept from the Donaumonarchy, but it has now become a political factor in Europe, in the EU. We can't get around it anymore. Central Europe is pro-NATO and protects our external borders. Hungary did, and Poland is doing it now. Both countries are currently protecting our welfare state, which would not be able to cope with mass immigration. But the Netherlands plays morale in exchange and wants to punish both countries. Like the Netherlands is so perfect. Keyword: supplemental affair. Poland can also say to the migrants: boys, go on; go to Germany and the Netherlands; the border is open. But Poland stands for us, too. That is why I would say: dziękuję bardzo, thank you very much. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about food security. Shell is going to be British and our farmers are going to be miserable. The Netherlands has one of the best and most sustainable agricultural sectors in the world, just like Israel. Thanks to the peasantry, the Netherlands has food security. And that's a luxury, because the world only has a food supply for 11 weeks. I repeat, 11 weeks. What happens if deficits occur? Food production in the world must rise by 60% until 2050 to meet the food needs of a growing world population. That's a lot. If there are food shortages, they cannot be directly supplemented. Prices rise and hunger tears up populations. Mr. Chairman. The Minister, as he said recently, read the book War by Margaret MacMillan, about the causes of conflicts and wars. Does the Minister see food shortages as a possible cause for the threat to peace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u222	Thank you, Mr Eppink. I call Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u223	Madam President. I would like to begin by warmly congratulating Mr Brekelmans on his beautiful, personal maiden speech. I would also like to join with all the words of thanks that have been expressed in the direction of our implored clerk Theo van Toor. With his experience and great commitment, he has indeed been very supportive of us as foreign spokesmen. That is what I can say about a series of years in which I have been able to experience it closely. And that he's been there for a long time, I can back it up by saying that, when I came in here, he was already very experienced and had been on it for many years. And there aren't many who can say that. Mr. Chairman. And then we have a new minister here. Theo van Toor has not yet seen so many foreign ministers take office in one cabinet period, but he was allowed to call himself Foreign Secretary at the time. And that's also true in the interior. "We're moving forward," says the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the content of this budget debate. Democracy is under pressure worldwide. We've got our hands full driving out tyranny, just to use one word from our national anthem. Democracy remains fully worth defending. To quote the well-known Oxford professor Lewis: "I am a democrat because I believe in the fall of sin. Humanity has fallen so deeply that no one can cope with unlimited power over fellow human beings." A sober observation. We better share power and thus promote justice and peace. My question to the Minister is this: does democratisation not deserve to be at the heart of human rights policy? Would it not be good to pay even more attention to the value of democracy as an institution? International commitment to a democratic rule of law is a long-term issue. We saw that penetrating in the heartbreaking scenes in Afghanistan. Overwhelmingly fast, how the bells were put back there. Exactly what Afghans were afraid of years ago. It has just emerged from the interruptions: with much enthusiasm it has been said that the combination of diplomacy, defence and development cooperation could actually make a leap forward, but that turned out to be more tough than thought. My question to the Minister is therefore: what lessons do we actually draw from that, including for future foreign policy? I say this very honestly myself from a great deal of involvement in the years that lie behind. What's happening in Afghanistan leaves some kind of emotional behavior. It requires a reflection that goes deeper than just the question of how the evacuation went. What does that really mean for what we can and cannot achieve in our foreign policy? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Union. It was founded with noble motives. At the same time, as a SGP, we believe it is important that the administration is designed as closely as possible to the citizen. These concerns rarely lead to a negative assessment of competence, subsidiarity and proportionality. It is very easy to have a snowball effect, an oil spill, with the powers in Europe being extended again. When do concerns about subsidiarity actually lead to a negative opinion? Do we dare to go one way and draw a line by saying again: no, this really should be taken care of nationally? In the international context, in the United Nations, we have been talking for years about the possibilities for improvements and reforms. It is an important forum for cooperation. Unfortunately, unfree countries are given the room to misread others. How does the Minister see the prospects for further reform of the United Nations? In the international context, in the UN context, Israel is often the bitten dog. Consider countless anti-Israel resolutions, blacklists of companies and a UN investigation committee on possible war crimes between the Palestinians and Israel. That committee is permanent. The mandate is too broad. The members are not neutral. The cabinet has recognised this before, but what is the Netherlands doing to adjust the composition, mandate and deadline? That's my question. Mr. Chairman. The United Nations can still have added value in matters such as basic human rights. An SGP motion has called on the government to initiate resolutions in the UN Human Rights Council on combating religious persecution in countries where this is very urgent. I'd like to ask what's going on with that. I would also like to draw attention to North Korea. Whoever doesn't honor the Kim Dynasty is in danger of life. For years, the country has remained unchanged in the sad first place in the Christian persecution ranking. Evidence of arbitrary detention, forced labour, torture and other injustices is beyond it. On a large scale, human rights are very poor there. Does the Minister see any possibility of calling North Korea more firmly on the violation of fundamental rights of its own citizens? In this context, does he wish to explore options for UN resolutions, personal sanctions at EU level or in any way, in order not to rest on the long-standing sad situation surrounding fundamental human rights in North Korea? Mr. Chairman. For me, budgetary treatment is always a time when you also look at the forgotten conflicts, which you sometimes see very little attention for. What is happening in Nigeria is very dear to us. So many people have been killed there for such a long time, including by terrorist activity. Churchgoers are regularly beaten, kidnapped or even killed in large numbers. Is there an eye for this via diplomatic channels?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u224	There is a question from Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u225	I have a question about North Korea, because that is a country that I am also generally concerned about. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned the option of sanctions. The tricky thing is that, of course, that country and its leaders are quite isolated internationally. Those aren't people who travel the world easily or have all kinds of assets everywhere. As a result, I fear that the typical sanctions we do, for example, as the EU, are not very effective. Of course, the United Nations will never issue sanctions against North Korea, because China supports North Korea. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van der Staaij whether he sees other ways of curbing the threat posed by North Korea. How does he think we should appeal to China about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u226	To address China is absolutely an important key in this whole. If that protection continues to exist in the UN context, it is difficult to really go through with it. It may well be that the answer is that personalised sanctions by the European Union are having too little effect there. What Mr Brekelmans says about this is quite plausible to me. However, I would like to have a little more detailed and further explored whether it is true that there is nothing to be done or whether the issue is that there is not much on the agenda for human rights in particular. When it was about North Korea, it was very often, and quite rightly so, about the concern about weapons of mass destruction. But if you look at it worldwide for such a long time, we are also dealing with the violation of fundamental human rights. So that's why I asked you this question. It has also been suggested by NGOs as a possibility: should you not, à la Rwanda, go to some sort of ad hoc tribunal? That also seems practically very complicated to me. But any suggestion, I'd like to put the next question. Now we seem to have some sort of resignation, as 'we can't do anything with that', but couldn't we put it a little higher on the agenda, including addressing human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u227	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u228	Mr. Chairman. When we talk about China, we also believe that continuous cooperation with Taiwan is very important, both in terms of trade and in the fight against international cybercrime. And I said 'when we talk about China', because I know how sensitive it is, but at the same time I also think it is important not only to look at China, but also to stand up for Taiwan's legitimate interests. My question is therefore: does the Netherlands support Taiwanese observer status at Interpol, which is also needed in practice? Then Armenia, another country like that. I thought that Mrs Mulder, on behalf of the CDA Group, also called for attention to be given to the recent aggression which has once again affected so many Armenians. What can the Netherlands do to condemn Azerbaijan's recent attack, is my question, and how to contribute to its relations? And isn't it high time to officially acknowledge the Armenian genocide? Finally, Mr President. When we talk about democracy, my group is also shocked by the ban on voting and debate for those unvaccinated Latvian representatives. I would also like to leave that concern to the Minister, also to address Latvia. It is about freedom of conscience, and it is also about the functioning of parliaments; parliaments that are a valuable way of dealing peacefully with conflicts. It is precisely this focus on peace among ourselves and the peaceful handling of conflicts in this way that we must be very careful about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u229	Mr. Chairman. May I devote my last interruption to someone who's been in the Chamber a little longer? We can learn from that. It's about Afghanistan. Mr Van der Staaij probably remembers former Prime Minister Balkenende, who had the war in Iraq investigated and then came up with the famous phrase: "With the knowledge of today, we would have done it quite differently." That was the spirit. Could Mr Van der Staaij also apply this to the war in Afghanistan, so that he says: 'With the knowledge of today, of what we know how easily the Taliban walked into Kabul, we should have done so quite differently'? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u230	I have already raised it in debates at that time, also on the basis of work visits to Afghanistan. I've been there several times over time. I also remember how impressed I was after reading the flight to Kabul The pilot, and I realized at one stroke what a person of my age, in the early 50s in Afghanistan, had experienced from changes in power: the Russian occupation, the Taliban and what came with it, the situation of civil war. And that with a certain distrust they sometimes looked at those new people from the West: they say they are really going to help us to establish democracy here now, but aren't they going to be gone again after a few years with their tails between their legs, if it gets too difficult; are they going to keep it up? That is the question I raised at the time. But I say with the wisdom of today: perhaps you should change your ambitions further, and say that reality shows that you can only last for a limited number of years as an international community. And you're also asking: if you face that, what can you actually do and can't do? But if you need that very long, intensive commitment to bring about real change, then you have to ask yourself strongly whether you can make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u231	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, Mr Kuzu van DENK has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join all the compliments that have been made towards Mr Brekelmans of the VVD. Congratulations on his maiden speech and I hope that there will be many fine contributions in the Chamber, accompanied by equally fine debates. I would also like to thank the Minister. It was for a short period of time and I don't know if the ministier has been pulsed for a new period, but I think it's especially very brave that he wanted to do it for this short period of time. A word of thanks to our clerk, of course. Theo, thank you very much for what you've done for the Foreign Affairs Committee in recent years and also since the nine years I've been here in the House of Representatives. Then there is the content, because geopolitical relations in the world are on edge. The prosperity and progress that started in the early 1990s after the fall of the wall has made way for ever more whimsical. Dutch foreign policy is not a far-from-my-bed show. Conflicts and wars that take place thousands of miles away affect people in our cities and in our neighborhoods. The House of Representatives regularly protests to draw attention to the situation in Iran, Afghanistan, Myanmar and so on. And even though it seems far away, it also sometimes comes very close. We see it at the eastern border of Europe, where Lukashenko uses refugees as weapons to put pressure on the European Union. Cyber wars and hybrid wars seem theoretical concepts, but it's closer than many people think. Misinformation, misinformation, who didn't fall victim to it? Apps on our phone like TikTok and facial recognition can be used against us if it falls into the wrong hands. In order to overcome these threats, it is important, and my group is very much in favour of doing so in favour of multilateralism. An international institution such as the United Nations has brought us peace and security. An international institution such as the European Union has brought us economic prosperity. But my group is also increasingly concerned about the sustainability of these institutions if we do not want to be a pioneer in the reform of these institutions. This is first and foremost necessary for the support of our own people. The Netherlands may be a small country but it is a great act. It is the country that is distinguished by its excellent diplomacy. It is precisely now that it is important to put the values that we in the Western world often talk about first. It is even our constitutional duty, on which all 150 Members of Parliament have promised or sworn to be faithful to it, to promote the international legal order. The Netherlands must continue to look at minorities in need and minorities who are oppressed. Mr. Chairman. Today, therefore, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to three issues: the atrocities of the apartheid state of Israel, the human rights violations that are taking place in China against the Uighurs and the worrying developments in Bosnia. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the apartheid state of Israel always manages to undermine the international legal order. One time the Gaza Strip is bombed and the other time Israel illegally annexes even more Palestinian territory by annexing illegal settlements in the West Bank. I am not even talking about the numerous UN resolutions that Israel has lashed out over the past few decades. And as if these atrocities by Israel towards the Palestinians were not enough, last month Israel put six NGOs on the terrorist list. Breaking down civil society is an excellent tool to make sure that you can arrest even more people, so that the last hopes of tens of thousands of Palestinians for humanitarian aid, offered by these NGOs, can be taken away from them. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared not to recognise Israel's classifications towards these NGOs and to demand Israel to reverse that decision. Mr. Chairman. The second point concerns another country which repeatedly violates human rights and is champion in suppressing minorities: China. Not a day goes by without poignant reports from China about the repression of the Uighurs. More than 1 million Uighurs have been forced into re-education camps. Uighurs who still live in Xinjiang are followed daily by cameras and via their smartphones. This applies not only to the Uighurs in China, because in the Netherlands too, Uighurs have something to do with this. Uighur women are forced to marry Han Chinese and systematically raped. In short, genocide is taking place on the other side of the world. It is good that the House of Representatives has acknowledged this, but it is only empty words, if there are no consequences from the government. So the question to the Minister is: what do you think is the next step? Could it be, for example, that we companies in the Netherlands, such as QIAGEN... I understand that company provides sample and test technologies for molecular diagnostics. But they also supply products to China that are used to ethnically purify the Uighurs. I would like to ask the Minister whether an inventory has been made of Dutch companies providing products or services to China that suppress Uighurs. I would also urge the Minister to impose an export ban on products and services from the Netherlands, which directly or indirectly implement these ethnic cleansings in China. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point: the worrying developments in Bosnia. My colleague Sjoerdsma also mentioned this. While the wounds of the failed Dutch peace mission in Srebrenica have not yet healed, we are on the eve of another tragedy in Bosnia, a drama in which Serbian nationalists, supported by Russia and Serbia, are engaged in their long-cherished dream of separating themselves from Bosnia and becoming part of Serbia. This drama was set in motion by Dodik, because recently Dodik on Serbian state television said that the genocide in Srebrenica never took place, especially in the period 11 to 18 July 1995. I quote the best man: "There is no way that anything happened in Srebrenica during that period." How wild do you want it? The same Dodik called Bosnia and Herzegovina a "miscarriage." We in the Netherlands cannot allow the next humanitarian tragedy to happen again before our eyes. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to act decisively against this. As far as I am concerned, it is time for economic pressure and specific sanctions, aimed at Dodik. His political allies and business friends need tough convictions. I would also suggest that the best man's bank accounts be frozen. Everything must be taken out of the box to avoid the doom scenario that Serbian nationalists have been dreaming about for years. The question is: is the Minister prepared to do so? Because if we do not intervene today, we will reward the genocide in Srebrenica. "Never again" turns into "once again," and we shouldn't want that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u233	Thank you, Mr Kuzu. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber, with fortunately a lot of content, and also with two beautiful moments, namely the maiden speech by Mr Brekelmans and the fine words of thanks for our praiseless Registrar Van Toor, but also with one low point. That had to do with a direct threat from one Member of Parliament to another Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u234	We'll continue on Thursday. I hope, then, that we all remember Rule 8.14 from our own Rules of Procedure. I would just like to read it out: 'Every Member behaves in a manner that shows respect for one another and does not undermine the dignity of the Chamber'. With these words, I would like to suspend the sitting for a short time. We will then have votes and an order of business.
