ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security (35925-VI): Adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Justice and Security (VI) for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, whom I welcome here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u3	Mr President, thank you. It is special to me that today I am allowed to speak in the First Chamber of the States-General as a ruler. For reasons that you will all understand, your room has a special place in my heart. Depending on the time when the new cabinet will be sworn in in January, it may be that this is the last time that I, as a ruler, will be allowed to speak with Parliament; in this Chamber, to which I have so many beautiful memories. When I was allowed to hold the debate in the House of Representatives on the budget for Justice and Security a little less than a month ago, I expressed my concern about the hardening of the contradiction in the debate on asylum and migration. This debate is increasingly being conducted on the basis of caricatures of reality. On both sides of the political spectrum there are images that are directly opposite each other. In the experience of one we are inundated and threatened by hordes of malicious profiteers. And in the perception of the other, this cabinet has an inhumane policy to keep everyone out of the door. Both images are distortions of reality. That reality is that we are pursuing a humane asylum policy that gives place to those who need our protection, those who flee war and violence. At the same time, this humane asylum policy is effective and decisive towards those who wrongly call on asylum and who have to leave the Netherlands. But I have also indicated in the House of Representatives that our asylum system is under pressure, for example from malicious regimes that use migration as a geopolitical weapon to pressure or disrupt other countries. Belarus is the most worrying example of this. And under pressure from a group of oppressors, not rarely from the so-called safe countries, who travel around Europe and abuse asylum facilities in one country after another. The answer to this pressure must not be to throw away the entire asylum system, for example by closing our borders to the outside world and isolating ourselves. Our asylum system is an expression of our humanity and solidarity. Those aren't principles you throw overboard when it gets tricky. My answer is therefore to use reasonable means of arming ourselves against this pressure and to protect the system, by combating nuisance, as we do with the chain marines, the Top X approach, time-out spots and the enforcement and monitoring location (htl) in Hoogeveen. We are working with countries within and outside the European Union to improve the cooperation of countries of origin on return. We ensure proper management of the external borders and make a joint fight against situations such as Belarus, Belarus. In consultation with transit countries such as Iraq, we managed to stop the route to Belarus. Protecting the system requires commitment and hard work and a robust migration chain that can withstand the fluctuations in numbers of asylum seekers or other developments that we have only limited control over. I've had the IND and the chain as a whole vetted by EY. This screening is an important basis for strengthening the chain. The chain is therefore working hard to follow EY's recommendations. It is these efforts, of a large number of organisations and the staff, that will also guarantee for the future that we will be able to accommodate people in the Netherlands who need our protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u4	I hear the Secretary of State say that on the one hand the Netherlands wants to pursue a humane asylum policy, but at the same time effective and decisive action must be taken against those who abuse it. They must also leave the country effectively. But these two commuters are not in balance, because we can see that this humane asylum policy is being implemented to the utmost, but the effective abandonment of the Netherlands by those who have no business here is causing nuisance, etc., is not happening in practice or hardly. How can the Secretary of State compare these two pillars of her policy equally if in practice one of them does not produce anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u5	There is indeed a imbalance. I agree with Mr Van Hattem. I'm going to explain why now. On the return, there are more obstacles than those who come here to ask for asylum. When asking for asylum, anyone who comes to the Netherlands and asks for asylum is included in the asylum procedure. Over time, it may appear that the person concerned is not eligible for asylum and therefore has to leave. But there are other problems at the departure. In particular, it is a question of forced departure. Voluntary return is happening, but forced return is a bit more difficult to realize, especially in the present time, since last spring the covid pandemic plagued us all, because in many countries a lot of countries called for negative PCR tests in the world. A lot of people who have to leave our country don't take that test, refuse to take that test. This means that we cannot allow these people to return to their country of origin. That doesn't make it easy at the moment. But it is so that you should always be careful with that, because those who mirror themselves to another, are softly mirrored by the fact that the Dutch Service is still able to get a reasonable number of people to leave the country. In addition, we are still number five of the European Union in terms of return results. With your permission, Mr President, I will now answer several questions. I want to do that by the order of those who have contributed. First of all, Mrs Vos, who also spoke on behalf of Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks. The first question, whether one of the questions was whether the Secretary of State was able to assess the errors made by the government. How can the next policy prevent it? As you know, Mr President, Mrs Vos and Mrs Karimi, I have had an external independent review of the asylum chain carried out by EY this year. This research has focused both on the IND and on the asylum chain as a whole. On 21 May last I presented the reports prepared by EY to the House of Representatives. On 12 July, I sent a response to the screening to the House of Representatives, explaining how the asylum chain deals with the findings of EY and the action perspectives provided. I've had that survey done to make the chain stronger and to anticipate the different developments within and outside the chain. The follow-up to the screening requires a careful approach. It's gonna be filled in in the next few days. To this end, a member of staff of the Directorate-General for Migration's Directorate-General for Migration has been appointed, inter alia, to speed up the follow-up and implementation of the recommendations. It is my intention to deal with this task in stages, and I am in line with the phasering contained in the EY reports as much as possible. I believe that these screenings and the actions that have been launched provide sufficient guidance and perspective to achieve strong migration and meet the challenges. I will inform the House of Representatives at the regular moments of accountability about its progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u6	The Secretary of State did have that external review done. That's good. But in my memory, EY had also advised to keep the funding of COA and IND stable. Perhaps you will come back to that, but I would like to know what you are doing with that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u7	The stable financing of COA and IND is an important issue. We have also indicated in the budget that we want to go there and are going there. This is indeed important for the stability of both organisations, because it is indeed up and down, then more and then less difficult. It is true that, so far, we have always known the multiannual forecasts (MPP), which will be drawn up in February and September. In today's budget, we are working with the February MPP, but by now there is an September MPP. It could no longer be incorporated into the current budget, which was adopted in August. But the extra finances that are needed will soon be in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u8	That's exactly the point. In my opinion, the advice was right to maybe to fluctuate a little less with the predictions from the MPP and to keep them stable. The Secretary of State says "that's a point," but is the government going to do the same? I do not read it out in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u9	That is absolutely the intention, because it is also difficult for me and the department, perhaps even a thorn in the eye, that it fluctuates so much and that you have to scale down and scale up all of a sudden. This does not make it easy for the staff, but it certainly does not make it easy for the asylum seekers and for the people who need to be taken into account in the asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u10	Mrs. Fox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u11	Isn't it an idea, or is it included in the thought that the system of this MPP may not be good because it fluctuates every six months? If you look at the ten-year average, the average number is 25,000 you send earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u12	I do not know whether it is wise to speculate on how to do or not to do the MPP. Perhaps it is reassuring for Mrs Vos that we think it is important that there is stable funding, both for the IND and for the COA, and that we are also committed to this with the report published by EY and with the implementation of what is recommended in it. Then Mrs Vos had another question about the overload of the question and why it had to come to this. Let me first say that I regret the current situation. All efforts are aimed at reducing the overload of reception. We are only dealing with an increased influx at the moment, but above all with a stagnant outflux. We have about 11,000, almost 12,000 status holders in the shelter. Those status holders are entitled to flow to a municipality within fourteen weeks to give their lives and to integrate them into Dutch society. This is not entirely successful, especially because of the fact that there is a large housing shortage in the Netherlands. That's reality for once. At the same time, I must also say that, in recent months, municipalities have achieved enormous results by allowing 10,500 status holders to pour out. I think I should report that too because it deserves a compliment that it has succeeded. The inflow has been increased by the number of first applications and, in particular, by revisiting family members. That's not really happening until last May, June. Then the travel possibilities became easier worldwide, because covid was thought to be somewhat under control. Turns out that's a little less now, but still. As a result, the detours, which were delayed due to the fact that they could not be traveled, have got off to a huge start in the last few months, so to speak from June onwards. So the number of followers is huge. In addition, we received 2,400 Afghan evacuations at one stroke. It is right that that has happened, but it is. So much for the shelter. Then Mrs Vos had the question of whether the current situation met the legal right to receive care. The COA sees itself forced, in view of the increasing number of people in the occupation, to receive asylum seekers at emergency shelters. That is absolutely not ideal. Those locations have a lower, but adequate quality level. Indeed, they are less suitable for long-term stays in my opinion. That is not desirable, but it is necessary at the moment. Hence the enormous amount of work being done at the COA. The result is the clue I gave to a number of municipalities to ensure that the people in the emergency shelters, who were available for a limited period of time, can be placed in a better location. So in the coming period we have these acute emergency shelters, which are used to empty Heumensoord, for example, so that people get better shelter, especially with winter approaching. The goal remains to close the emergency shelters as soon as possible. The COA continues to work to achieve regular locations for a longer period of time. This seems more difficult than being seen, but it is being worked hard and unabated. So we also try, where possible, to make improvements at locations, to ensure that people are properly housed at all locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u13	I hear the Secretary of State say that emergency shelters should be closed as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the COA is still in the process of setting up new emergency shelters as far as I know. How does that relate to this ambition to close them as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u14	We've got emergency shelters available from the Department of Defense. They're pavilions. Those pavilions aren't all suited to winter conditions. We are doing our utmost to ensure that the shelter can take place in more or less stone buildings, which are able to cope with winter conditions. This is not possible in all cases, but in a number of cases there are emergency shelters that have better facilities than the temporary emergency shelters that we have at our disposal so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u15	This is about the nature of the building, but I am more concerned with the concept of "emergency reception location." Is it then the case that that concept will at least cease to exist in a few months' time, so that no new emergency shelters will be set up? Is that what the Secretary of State is trying to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u16	The COA is working very hard, together with municipalities and provinces, to ensure regular reception for the longer term. The emergency shelters, such as Heumensoord, were temporary, are temporary, and the emergency shelters, which I have just discussed in connection with the designation, are also temporary for three to a maximum of six months. Meanwhile, there is a need to work hard on regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u17	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u18	Do you mean "regular reception" than only reception locations that are really for the longer term, or are they also, for example, reception sites for up to one year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u19	I can't say exactly if it's for up to a year. What the COA would like is that there are reception locations that are available for a longer period of time. That seems very sensible to me; I would also like to do so. Often there are administrative agreements with municipalities for a location for about five years. Then there may be a possibility for renewal. These are about the deadlines by which it is good for all parties, the municipalities, the COA and the asylum seekers to be able to stay in such a location. This also means that better provision can be made for education. Do you mind if I take a sip?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u20	Go ahead. That's what it stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u21	I'm ready again, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vos had also asked whether the COA's spare capacity would be reduced and whether I could further clarify that decision. The Spring Paper 2021 provided the COA with resources for spare capacity. These resources are used for the current situation and therefore for the reception. Therefore, there is no additional spare capacity and it is not reduced. Mrs Vos still had the question of why you would cut COA at all in these times. Shouldn't there be a general commitment to wider capacity? The contribution to the COA is falling as a result of the Multi-Year Production Prognosis. I just talked about that. It was used for the 2022 budget. That's the Multi-Year Production Prognosis last February. The MPP took into account a declining inflow in combination with an outflow in accordance with the assignment housing licence holders. The MPP is not multi-annual, as uncertainty increases as the years lie further away. The current image shows a higher inflow and a lower outflow. This combination was not included in February when the MPP and the budget were drawn up in August. This picture is updated each time and is involved in the regular moments in the national budget cycle. I have already said that this is done twice a year. In September this is again and then the spring note 2022 adjusts the finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u22	I have a question on that point. Then you're just late, aren't you? You're talking about the February MPP. That was not taken into account. We had also hoped that corona would be over, so something often goes wrong, but do you say that only after the Spring Note has been adopted will additional capacity be added to COA? Because then people are still crammed in sometimes really inhuman conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u23	No, the COA collection capacity is constantly being expanded. The COA can do that, only the finances are determined by the Spring Note. We must not anticipate that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vos has asked another question about how to break the circle of under-assessing the influx. I actually just said something about that. Prognosis of an asylum influx is a matter of many factors and is very complex. This is also subject to interim change. That's what we saw last summer. In June, a lot more people came in than they thought. Because this asylum influx is so often volatile, the cabinet has decided not to make continuous adjustments, but on fixed budgetary moments. In any case, care always adapts to the needs that exist. The finances are coming in. Then Mrs Vos had questions about the IND's asylum applications, the cuts in the IND and the delays. There was an early scaling down of staff in 2017, after the 2015 refugee crisis. We had a slightly increased asylum influx in 2018 and a funding system that didn't go beyond the short term. This led to an increase in the lead times at the IND in 2018 and 2019. As a result of these accumulated lead times, in particular on track 4, the IND has been increasingly confronted with defaults and appeals in non-time decisions leading to periodic penalty payments since 2019. The periodic penalty payments didn't help. A periodic penalty payment is intended to ensure that the government doesn't get involved, but makes the decision so that the government doesn't have to pay a periodic penalty payment. But the periodic penalty payments system that existed at the IND didn't work at all. We were looking at an amount of periodic penalty payments for 2020 of up to 100 million and perhaps even 140 million. Then one thing is clear: that the penalty payment as such does not work. A task force was set up in March 2020 to eliminate the old asylum stock before 1 April 2020. That order turned out to be 15,350 cases. On 12 July last, the House of Representatives received a letter informing it of the completion of the task force's mission. Since the start of the task force in April last year, almost all outstanding old applications have been eliminated. The few requests that remain are very complicated things that require answers to questions that the IND cannot answer on its own. That's what we depend on others for. The IND will focus on deciding on open applications made from 1 April 2020. And based on... I need to blow my nose. I've been tested negative, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u24	That's it. We have all the time we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u25	Based on the experience of the Task Force, including written hearing and telehearse, and on the recommendations made by EY, the process will be smarter and more efficient within the IND organisation. Part of the task force's capacity will be taken on a permanent basis by the IND in order not to lose the knowledge and skills acquired and also to be able to cope with the work supply by 2022. Risks related to the effects of new corona measures, labour market cuts and possibly higher influx are closely monitored. As far as possible, we act on it, but that is not always possible. Then about cutting back on the IND. No cuts have been proposed for the IND in the 2022 budget for the coming years. A financial series has been incorporated into the 2022 budget on the basis of the decision-making process of the Spring Paper 2021. The updated image for 2022 and further will be presented to the Cabinet on the basis of the February 2022 Multi-Year Production Prognosis. These figures form the basis for decision-making on additional resources. The implementation of the recommendations such as a permanent workforce and so on is financed as much as possible by existing resources. If additional resources are needed, they will be involved in the ordinary budgetary decision-making process. This is an immediate answer to Mrs Vos' question as to whether there will be another budget problem in the IND in 2023, because I have just outlined how this is being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u26	The Secretary of State says that the IND is not being cut, but if I see the numbers coming down here, that's a cut, as I've learned. In thousands, that goes from 507.188 Why isn't this austerity? It's going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u27	I hate to say it again, but that is based on the February 2021 MPP. It's gonna be modified. I just explained that. As far as the IND is concerned, the figures now being determined by the September MPP also adjust all resources. That MPP is being used for the budget. The current picture indeed shows a higher inflow and a lower outflow than expected, but as far as the adjustment is concerned, the cabinet will consider whether additional resources are needed at the forthcoming budgetary moments on the basis of the current estimate. Then that will be a different series from the series that Mrs Vos is seeing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u28	We just had it a block ago... oh, no, you don't want me to use cubes. We were talking about the MPP and the fluctuations a few minutes ago. We were talking about EY's report on permanent funding. Now an amount is adjusted downwards on the basis of a prediction that probably has no predictive value. Then the question is whether it would not be more logical to keep that right, so that you also have equal funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u29	I understand very well what Mrs. Fox is saying. At the same time, we are working on EY's report, making sure that we get this stable funding in order and how it is going to be arranged. That is also the implementation of the report and also the recommendation of the report. At the same time, we are in the here and now still with a system that we work with. At some point, that's gonna be straightened out. Then we come into a system with more stable funding, as Mrs Vos means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u30	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u31	Finally. In the next budget, next year, we can therefore expect a bit of a uniform line with this other system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u32	The aim is to obtain more stable funding, both for the IND and for the COA. This is being worked on to ensure that there are parameters that can be worked on. But again, the old system or the system as we have it now is leading. But they're working on it. Then Mrs Vos had questions about the international paragraph, namely Belarus. That's a complicated situation. A Member State such as Poland is indeed protecting the external border of the European Union. Each Member State has the right and the duty to do so. It is a conscious strategy of the regime in Belarus, the Lukashenko regime, to deploy migrants to undermine the European Union. We do indeed have to react firmly to this, because these actions do not go far enough. The responsibility for this lies with Belarus. We need to be aware of this, and I think that this is something special every time that Belarus has also signed the Refugee Treaty. It should not and should not do so at all, but the European Union and a Member State such as Poland have to abide by the rules we have agreed with each other at EU level, because border surveillance must always be carried out in accordance with international and European law. Reports of possible violations should be followed up seriously. Then it is important for the Commission to monitor this, because the Commission is dealing with the acquis. The Netherlands supports the Commission in this matter and also urges the Commission to address this role. I also spoke with my Polish colleague last month; I did so during the JHA Council. I myself called my Polish college to remind him that this is important. I have stressed the humanitarian situation and the importance of giving humanitarian organisations and journalists access to the no-go area. I also stressed the importance of registering as many people as possible and allowing them to apply for asylum. Furthermore, the JHA Council, both bilaterally and with all the Member States, is constantly urged to apply the humanitarian rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u33	I am a little surprised that the Secretary of State does call a Polish colleague who dares to take measures to counter the invasion of asylum, but in the meantime it remains frightfully silent in the countries of origin from which the safe people come, such as Morocco. When is the phone going to be red-hot in Rabat, Marrakesh or wherever their ministry is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u34	I can reassure Mr Van Hattem: close contacts with countries such as Morocco and Algeria are being worked hard in cabinet-wide. I myself recently concluded an agreement with Egypt to take back asylum seekers who cannot get asylum in the Netherlands, and to help them there with border control and so on. But that agreement was just made to make sure they take their own people back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u35	So it's cabinet-wide, as the Secretary of State points out. Now the coming cabinet, in terms of the number of people in it, is almost as large as the number of Moroccans who have returned to Morocco in recent years. So I would like to ask: what can we expect? What is the stakes of this still outgoing cabinet? Are we actually going to return people who are not supposed to be here, who often cause nuisance here, who contribute to crime and so on and so on? Is there any indication of this, or is it still a government-wide commitment that leads to nothing yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u36	I can speak for the missionary cabinet. I don't have a crystal ball; I'm not about what the new cabinet is going to do. It will be up to Mr Van Hattem to debate with the new cabinet. But the outgoing cabinet is working on the possibility of returning people who have not received asylum in the Netherlands to their country of origin. Then the no-go zone for journalists in Poland. Not just me, but the whole cabinet thinks freedom of the press is very important. It is also an important part of Dutch foreign policy. The Netherlands is committed to this worldwide. That is why I share Mrs Vos's view on the great importance of transparency and access for the media to border areas. Let me now turn to the pact. One thing is clear in the pact presented by Mrs Johansson, the Commissioner, in September last year. On one subject, all 27 Member States agree, namely that there must be a good return. There are then different views on all kinds of other subjects. Some southern countries find something different than countries in the east of the European Union, and these countries find something different from countries in the north. For example, there are different Member States that have different views. The views are therefore sometimes different. The Netherlands is developing constructively within the framework of the BNC-fiches. In doing so, we actively seek contact with other equal-minded countries in order to move together, wherever possible, and to ensure that we can move forward. One thing is clear: the current European asylum policy simply does not function well in parts. I would like to mention Dublin as an example. It is very difficult, in any case because of covid, to get people back through the Dublin Regulation to the country where they first entered the European Union. But it is also difficult to get people back under the Dublin regulation to some of the countries whose courts have said: you cannot send them back there, because the reception facilities are below the standards. So that makes it all very difficult. This also means that you can no longer rely on the principle of interstate trust. That is the basis for something like the Dublin regulation. The structural improvements in the Pact, therefore, the responsibility for asylum policy, must go hand in hand with solidarity, and solidarity must go hand in hand with responsibility for the whole asylum procedure. Mrs Stienen also asked about this, as did Mrs Vos. We believe that the proper implementation of all the rules is vitally important; let me say that it is very important to make the European asylum system work. A few steps have been taken, though. The European Asylum Agency Regulation has been adopted. As a result, EASO, which was first the Support Office, has now become a fully-fledged agency. But it's quite a challenge for the cabinet. It is an important challenge for the Cabinet to help bring the negotiations forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u37	I'll check the clock, Secretary of State. You've been busy for 40 minutes and you're still with the first spokesperson. There's gonna be three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u38	Yes, but in the meantime, I've already dealt with a number of other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u39	You're mowing the grass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u40	I can say something about the border procedure. It was deposited in the BNC sheet dated 5 November last year. But the right to asylum of those who have fled their country for persecution, war or violence is not affected. Dan Frontex. I think I've already dealt with a lot of other questions about that. Primary responsibility: border surveillance. Through joint operations, Frontex contributes to more effective management of external borders and to ensuring a secure Schengen area through the fight against irregular migration and cross-border crime. Over the past year, several investigations have been carried out into both Frontex's possible involvement in alleged pushbacks and the implementation of the extended mandate since 2019. The various investigations conclude that no conclusive evidence has been found of this involvement of Frontex. We have the management board, OLAF is investigating and the European Ombudsman is also investigating. Then there was a question from Mrs Vos about regular migration and the blue card. The Netherlands has an inviting policy for highly-skilled knowledge migrants who are highly educated, less educated, who make a positive contribution to the Dutch economy. The Blue Card Directive fits in with this. This applies to knowledge migrants. Work is currently under way to implement a revision of the Blue Card. Then there are no ongoing negotiations. Other forms of labour migration are subject to a restrictive admission policy: you can obtain a permit if there is no offer in Europe. In the context of the motion of the MPs Van Weyenberg and Maatoug, the cabinet explores the role that a broad advisory committee can play in identifying sectors and professions in which shortages occur and migrant workers are needed. The cabinet talks about this with the partners, including VNO-NCW. Another question from Mrs Vos on Afghanistan: was that drama not foreseeable? Several debates were held in the House of Representatives on the evacuation from Afghanistan and reception in the Netherlands. For a proper evaluation of the evacuation, a committee will be set up to investigate the evacuation operation from Kabul. I'll wait for that evaluation. Wasn't the drama predictable? I just said that. That's it. Those were the answers to Mrs Vos' questions. I shall now answer Mr Van Hattem's questions. I'll talk very quickly, so it'll take less time. Mr Van Hattem asked an important question about a legal basis for a designation. The Dutch State has committed itself through European Union law, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Refugee Convention and other conventions to the reception and supervision of asylum seekers. In concrete terms, the Reception Directive can be considered. That Directive lays down mandatory legal standards for the reception of asylum seekers. As should be the case with EU law, this directive has been transposed into national laws and regulations. Thus, it is a joint responsibility for all Dutch authorities to comply with this and other obligations regarding the reception and supervision of asylum seekers. In addition to a legal obligation, there is also something like a moral obligation. In the Netherlands, we don't let anyone sleep on the streets. In all my talks with municipalities, I feel that they take this obligation very seriously. I therefore have no reason at the moment to believe that a municipality intends to resort to remedies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u41	The Secretary of State mentions the international obligations. That is more the motivation to do it, but I do not have the basis to intervene in local autonomy as a government in this area. Because it's a lot that you pass the local autonomy to intervene here. For example, in the case of local government law, the government can decide to draw up a federal plan to overrule the municipality, but I see no legal basis here to put aside municipal autonomy in this way as a state government. So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what formal basis there is for passing local autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u42	Mr. Chairman. I have just said which conventions and other European law, international law and treaty obligations the Netherlands has, and that the Netherlands has committed itself to them and implemented the directive in national laws and regulations. That's the basis we used for the clue. I would also like to say to Mr Van Hattem that we have done so in order to prevent the crisis response, because crisis relief is a very unpleasant tool. It may be necessary at some point. There's a crisis relief scheme. Emergency care means that people are taken in a sports hall or in another place for 72 hours or up to a week, then have to get back on the bus, then go to another place, where they are also taken 72 hours or up to a week, and so on, and so on, each week in which children cannot receive education. That is why the cabinet has decided to appoint an appointment, in consultation with the national board of directors and with provincial boards of directors and, as it is called, the national lords; these are all the King's Commissioners. In consultation with all these gremia and on the basis of European and international legislation and treaty provisions, we have decided to do so for three to six months, so that there is some peace and stability and so that young children can also receive education, but not in crisis relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u43	I still don't hear an answer to my question. This is all about the reason, the justification, the context in which it is taking place. But what about the constitutional part of this, the intervention in local autonomy? What is the title of this clue? Under what jurisdiction does the Secretary of State use this designation? I have not seen the indications myself, but I assume that there will be an introduction on the basis of which legal article the Secretary of State has the power to impose such a designation on a municipality. This is lacking in the story, because from the Reich all kinds of powers can be used if there is a legal basis for that, but I have not yet heard a start of an answer to that legal basis which in this way can pass the local autonomy within Dutch state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u44	Mr Van Hattem says that he has not yet heard the beginning of an answer, but I have given a comprehensive answer. If Mr Van Hattem asks me which Dutch law, which article, paragraph of an article or sub-paragraph of an article, then I must disappoint him. I have indicated now that I repeat that the Dutch State has felt entitled, through what I have just said, through all these European and international treaties and all these things, to give a lead in order to prevent crisis relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u45	Mr Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u46	Once again, Mr President, that is the context, but I still lack the power of the Empire to do so. What if a municipality says, "We're not going to do this at all, because we don't want to do this at all. We don't want that shelter in our congregation. We refuse to do so."? What's that? Then I do not think the Secretary of State has any formal basis to say: we are going through with it. Is that right? Or does the Secretary of State have a means of power to force that municipality to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u47	The Empire has a wide range of legal instruments to provide, if necessary, for this. In any case, I refer to legislation and regulations in the field of spatial planning. What remedies are then available to municipalities depends on the precise legal instruments that are being used and is determined on a case-by-case basis. We have chosen for the municipalities that are called "Those are at least the region Rotterdam, Gorinchem, Venray and Enschede " because in the short term space is possible and is also of a good size. Because we need 2,000 places available by the end of this month. Hence these places. Then sexual harassment of women. Notifications and declarations are always registered by the police. If there are signs that this is not happening in some places, then it is wise to advise people to talk to the police. Report it! As far as archiving is concerned, it is wise for the municipality concerned to do so, but reports are also registered with the police. If no report is made, it is difficult, but I can assure you that the COA always records the incidents that occur within the walls of the COA. What am I going to do to improve safety around those azc's? Is there going to be a police station available? That question was also asked in the Lower House. I'm not about the police. That is up to the police and not even to the Minister of Justice, because the police decide where the police stations are. That's a matter of management from the Chief Constable. The police are in conversation with the municipality of Westerwolde. There is Ter Apel... to extend the mail to the office with better possibilities. There's gonna be a renovation there, too. Are there gonna be boas? Some money has been made available by my ministry for municipalities that have to deal with nuisances: 1 million a year, from which they can draw. In addition, we have appointed chain marines. We've got time-out spots at the COA. There is a lot of staff at the COA to make sure that the nuisance can be reduced as much as possible. In addition, I have opened the htl in Hoogeveen where notorious nuisances are placed. A lot is being done in this respect, but of course there is a constant review of the need for more. For example, tomorrow I would pay a visit to Emmen because of the bus, to Ter Apel, to the shopkeepers in the municipality of Westerwolde. I'm going to do that digitally now because of the covid restrictions. But I have another conversation tomorrow to hear what the situation is like and to see if there are any possibilities to respond to any felt complaints with an answer that is helpful. What do we get from potential Islamic tourists... eh, terrorists? That's well screened by the COA. Social media is also being used to see if there are any signals. The police and the KMar do the I&R (identification and registration) before the people enter the asylum process. They do that very professionally. I think it's very good to do that. But once again, reading social media is very important. In response to the resignation of my predecessor Harbers, Rutte said that asylum seekers who are guilty of serious crimes must leave the country. How can I justify that? I believe that committing serious offences cannot go unpunished. That may be a reason to reject an application or withdraw a licence. That's what's gonna happen. At the same time, there are also considerable obstacles to a truly satisfactory solution to this problem. In this respect, I have already said something about the actual circumstances, but I am also bound by international laws and regulations. Work is also under way at European level to see whether we can take better steps in this regard. Then there was the question of whether there were insufficient interpreters to adequately monitor the asylum influx from Afghanistan. The effort is mainly directed at Afghans who have a specific relationship with the Netherlands, such as work for the Dutch authorities. You could read that in the letters we sent to Parliament. This has led to more than 2,400 Afghans being evacuated to NL at the moment. Those applications have already been examined by the IND. A special group of people has been released by the IND to deal with those requests, but that is no longer necessary. There is also, of course, a regular flow of asylum seekers who report to Ter Apel. We currently have a decision and departure Moratorium on Afghanistan. I set that up in August, the summer. Dan Marrakech. International migration cooperation is a priority for the Netherlands. This means that appropriate measures must be taken in good time to better regulate migration and, for example, to reduce irregular migration to Europe and the Netherlands. For that, it offers GCM, as it is called, leads. But the countries, including the Netherlands, voluntarily commit to this, in accordance with our own laws and regulations. That's voluntary. The GCM has 23 common objectives. Then, as a country, you can have your own freedom of policy. The intentions are clear. It is not legally binding and there is recognition of its own sovereignty to pursue migration policy. A letter was sent to the House of Representatives on 30 November 2018. I'm getting along now, Mr. Chairman. I've been a long way. I have already said something about the total asylum influx for 2021 of 18 000 in response to Mrs Vos' question on the MPP. I explained how this system works and how we look at it, and that this will certainly be adjusted financially in the spring paper 2022, because the September MPP shows different figures. Then the return of funds to the ODA budget. 198.6 million have been returned to BuHa-OS as a result of the lower allocation of first-year asylum care. The return of these funds is, on the one hand, due to low expected COA occupancy due to a lower inflow. At the forthcoming budgetary moments, the Cabinet will consider, on the basis of the current estimate, whether the allocation to ODA should be increased and whether additional financial resources are needed. Self-employed return doesn't work. What is our commitment to return? For those who do not cooperate on return, they will be put on forced departure. I have already said in reply to Mrs Vos that the Dutch Return and Departure Service is still able to achieve reasonable results despite the many limitations that exist, particularly because of covid and because of the fact that we still have difficulties with Dublin, because there are Member States that do not meet the minimum reception requirements. In 2020, around 2,780 foreigners left the caseload, of which 1,240 were forced to leave the caseload until week 40. The DT&V is in position five. Then the subject of illegal residence. Effective measures aimed at or contributing to return and departure shall be used. We have the country's foreign facilities. This is being worked on, at least that is the idea, a nationwide network. The pilot with five municipalities is almost completed. It may also examine whether there is a national coverage network, where reception is always directed towards return. But that is up to another cabinet, and there are also things about that in the coalition agreement. Reception in the region is one of the key elements of the Dutch integrated migration agenda. They're working hard on that. And the EU is also making funds available for this, for example in the EU-Turkey declaration, because 6 billion has been given to Turkey for reception in the region. For the rest, I must refer you to BuHa-OS. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the position on the closure of borders. Mr Van Hattem is well aware that the Netherlands categorically rejects the closure of borders. It is not a structural solution and it is of particular importance that the Netherlands wants to protect people who flee war and violence. Mr Van Hattem also mentioned the point made by Mrs Becker, my party colleague in the House of Representatives. Many of the elements of Mrs Becker's proposal to focus on measures in a national migration crisis plan are reflected in the current comprehensive government migration agenda. Then we have been asked to improve border management. Yes, we are working on that in the Schengen area. An important point is also that the Netherlands is genuinely committed to linking the improvement of the Schengen Borders Code to asylum, in particular secondary migration. I thought I had answered Mr Van Hattem's questions. Then I'll come to Mrs. Stienen. This is also about the budget and the money there is. I thought that I had answered this question to a large extent in response to Mrs Vos's contribution. Then it's about the higher influx, the lower and the MPPs. I hope that I have answered Mrs Stienen's questions sufficiently. If you don't, I'm gonna find out. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Stienen also talked about other notification centres that could relieve the pressure on Ter Apel. Can I explain this in more detail? Yes. A plan is being worked out right now. I hope that at the end of this month or, if not, at the beginning of next month, there will be a second entry site, especially for the after-travel. The after-travel is quite large and, moreover, the people who travel have already undergone a number of studies. So that can be achieved very well. In addition, other possibilities to relieve Ter Apel continue to be sought. Then the coalition of the willing and the shelter of children from Moria. On the implementation of the exceptional relocation offer made following the fire on Lesbos in September 2020 and in which 100 vulnerable refugees were transferred to the Netherlands, including 57 minors, your parliament, including the First Chamber, has been extensively informed. At present, this cabinet sees no reason to make further commitments on the relocation of single minor foreigners from Greece. It is perhaps good to mention that from my ministry there have been three shelters for single minor foreigners on the Greek mainland and that this has now been successful. There is one for single girls, possibly with babies and small children, and there are two for single underage boys. More than 100 single minors have now been received and then helped to other places in Greece or to family members elsewhere in Europe after they had reached the age of majority. There, minors receive education, reception, legal assistance and everything necessary for their well-being, including psychological assistance. The Netherlands also helps the Greeks to improve the custody system. I have just confirmed, just before I came here, the MoU with my Greek colleague: this is how it works. Then there's the troublesome asylum seekers. Are there any recent figures? The WODC shall publish in 2022 the figures for the year 2021 in the annual incident report. However, there are quarterly figures from the department on Rijksoverheid.nl. Has the group of the heaviest offenders changed? The WODC is currently conducting an investigation into the 2019 incident overview. On the basis of the explanation of the figures and their comparison with subsequent years, it should be made clear whether there are any changes in the characteristics of the group of nuisances. But in the composition of the group of foreigners from the top ten... I have to say, the Top X list. There have been no fundamental changes in the last two years. I sent my policy response to this to the House of Representatives on 15 June. It may also be useful to mention that from 1 July this year until 1 December this year there have been around 730 unique people on the national Top X list. The number of persons on the list remained fairly stable for the first eight months of 2021: around 30 persons per month. Then Mrs. Stienen had a question about the pushbacks. I share Mrs Stienen's concerns. It is important to give serious follow-up to such accusations. Member States are primarily responsible for the implementation of border control. This is not always easy for Member States with external borders. First of all, action at the border must always be in line with European and international law. As guardian of the Treaties, the Commission is on top of this. For example, the Commission is assisting in setting up monitoring mechanisms, recently in Croatia. I myself have stressed the importance of respecting EU and international law in border control during the last JHA Rays, not the very last one, but in several JHA Rays. I'll keep doing that, too. I am also actively bringing this into contact with my colleagues. I have spoken to my Greek, Croatian and Polish counterparts on several occasions, not only in the context of JHA, but I have also picked up and called the telephone on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u48	Are we approaching the end of your folder?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u49	Yes, I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. What do I think of the proposed Council decision on emergency payments for Lithuania, Latvia and Poland? I've taken note of that. This is a proposal for a Council decision under Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Council must agree to this after consulting the EP. Last week I sent the BNC sheet on this matter to Parliament. I welcome the proposal because it paraphrases provisions of existing arrangements. There are also similarities between the European Commission's proposals, for example for the Pact, and the border procedure. In this way, it may be possible for Lithuania, Latvia and Poland to have some control over this major problem at the moment. Finally, a question from Mrs Nanninga and then I am ready, Mr President; you are eager, I see. With regard to a sound action plan to reduce the influx of asylum, I have already replied to Mr Van Hattem that the Netherlands does not see it as a realistic solution to close the borders. Moreover, the Netherlands believes that we do not do so either because those who flee war and violence should be able to apply for asylum. What we are doing is opting for a package of realistic measures. We want to minimise the risks, promote safety and thus also protect those who need our protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u50	Yeah, that tear-making mantra of refugees, war and violence, and so on, we usually hear on the left. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that a great many of these so-called refugees are killing us here? Our group in the House of Representatives visited the bus drivers of Ter Apel. I regularly speak to Amsterdam and The Hague policemen, people from Service Return & Departure, people from the IND, and they really don't all talk about terribly pathetic people, fleeing war and violence. Isn't that something that needs to be done on the inflow side? Does the Secretary of State agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u51	I understand very well what Mrs Nanninga is saying. Her colleague in the Lower House, Mr Eerdmans, has also raised this point. I share those concerns, too. At the same time, it is true that you say it is tearing, but that is true and that is how the Netherlands feels. There is support in the Netherlands to protect people fleeing war and violence. At the same time, a lot of people are coming this way, happiness seekers, for a better position, but also just luck seekers. They ask for asylum and then take advantage of the reception and conditions in the Netherlands, because they are very pleasant. I hope that with the European proposals for the border procedure we will be able to get that under control much better. It is important that, as soon as possible, we inform people who apply for asylum, especially those who are safe, as we call it, to let them know that they do not have access to asylum and that they can leave. But the border procedure proposed by the European Commission is much clearer in this respect. People can report to the external borders of the European Union. The more successful... Let me put it this way: the more promising people can enter the European Union, after which their asylum application will be dealt with. The non-opportunities will receive the message in that border procedure: you cannot go here; you must return to where you came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u52	I'm familiar with the system, but that obviously doesn't work. If we look at support for people who really need it, then something really needs to happen about that influx. That is where the colleagues from the left and we will find each other. Of course, there should be no less or unstable money to the service that has to process that power. We agree on this, even though we are heading in a very different direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u53	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u54	I'll get to that. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that precisely because of that support... there are really pathetic people. That's right. But to maintain and increase that support, it doesn't work to keep puppies and wet and those open borders. In Denmark, a country in the EU too, it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u55	Thank you. Just one more brief answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u56	Then let me take the bull by the horns, namely Denmark. Denmark is not bound by the Reception Directive, not bound by the Procedural Directive, not bound by the Qualification Directive, not bound by the Family Reunion Directive and a bunch of other directives. That makes it easy for Denmark to act the way they want. They had 1,500 asylum applications last year; we had 25,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u57	Now we're getting somewhere. Of course, that's fantastic. We can, of course, also withdraw from all these pointless European Commission treaties and agreements, which we are only suffering from. We only facilitate profiteers. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that we should cancel this as soon as possible? Again, I repeat: precisely to keep those few people who really need it, who really deserve it, with support of decent shelter and without chance stealing, robbing scum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u58	Short answer, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u59	That sounds attractive: the Netherlands, get out and do just like Denmark. But that's a crossing station. You can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u60	Then there is a brief interruption for Mr Van Hattem and then we really go to the next term. Just one question, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u61	I can largely endorse Mrs Nanninga's comments just now, with the difference that reception in the region should be the focus instead of bringing the individual here. I have put a number of other questions to the Secretary of State who have not been, or have not been, fully answered. Speaking of Denmark, I have asked about the situation of the former Danish minister who is now going to prison for two months for carrying out policies of good faith and honour. How does the Secretary of State view this? How is this seen from the Netherlands, in the European context? Is that perhaps the fear of this Secretary of State and does she want to prevent a stay in Nieuwersluis? Then I had another question about the effectiveness of the labour market, the replacement migration and labour migration, including family migration and status holders. Can the Secretary of State still come up with that? Can performance indicators also be linked to them? I also asked a question about the scheme for housing large status holders' families. I haven't had an answer to that. Then there is the total ineffectiveness of self-return and the role of activist NGOs, and the more than 3,000 Afghans to be received who, according to Commissioner Johansson's plan, still have to come to the Netherlands. This Secretary of State, or at least the Netherlands, has apparently committed itself to this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u62	Is it an idea to answer those questions in the second term, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u63	That's good, Mr. Chairman. It's a long line. Let me answer one question, namely that I might have to go to Nieuwersluis. I do not know whether that is still a detention centre in the Netherlands. Mr Van Hattem is already late in this respect, because in the House of Representatives my colleagues Grapperhaus and Dekker and myself were accused of treason. I wasn't cuffed. Then the entire House of Representatives was accused of treason. In that respect it can be even more exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u64	Let's not go that way. Then, Mrs Stienen, you still lack an answer, perhaps even for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u65	That's right, Mr. Chairman. My group has expressed concerns about the position of NGOs and aid workers who want to provide aid at the borders in Poland and also on the islands in Greece. And also about the journalists who want to report on it. We see in Greece that a law has just been passed, on which Human Rights Watch has also expressed itself that is deeply concerned that under the guise of fighting fake news now journalists reporting on pushbacks are also thinking of our own Dutch journalist Ingeborg Beugel...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u66	Mrs. Stienen, can you keep it a little short considering the time? A brief interruption is allowed, a long one is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u67	I have a question on this because I had hoped that there would be a response. My group is therefore very concerned about this development, and we are curious whether the Secretary of State also expresses concern about this in her contacts with the Greeks. The Secretary of State herself just mentioned the importance she attaches to freedom of expression and the freedom of journalism, so we wanted an additional response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u68	This may be possible in the second term, if you wish. Whatever you say, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u69	I can be quite brief about that, Mr President. Yes, in a general sense we are speaking about this and saying that it is extremely important for journalists to be able to do their work freely, because that is very important for the Netherlands. Dutch foreign policy is also based on this. But in individual cases we do not call on the Greek authorities to do so, but there is intensive contact between the persons concerned and the Dutch embassy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u70	Thank you. Then we now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Vos on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to this Secretary of State. It is indeed a memorable moment, because it is perhaps the last day that you will be here in this house and also in the Binnenhof as a working man. So I feel sorry for you. It's a beautiful place here. It's a good thing we're marking that. We have discussed in detail the ongoing funding and what the cabinet is going to learn and is going to give to the next cabinet. I also really hope that the next budget will have a stable funding of both the IND and the COA, because that will help to calm down. In any case, peace and stability is good for this country. We are still talking about the emergency measures proposed by the European Commission at the eastern border of Europe, in Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. As you know, our groups are very critical of this. We will also mention this in our written contribution, which is also being made today. I would like to make one final point. I didn't talk about the new coalition agreement. It's not about that either. That's not what this Secretary of State is about. I saw some hopeful things about circular migration and more realistic migration policy, but I also saw something that worries me very much. That's the phrase about the junk. A junk declaration is something you're gonna get your pants on if you've committed a crime. What is stated in the new coalition agreement is that the undesirable statement may be extended to people who have not committed a crime but who are ordinary here and who are somehow unable to return. Then it's about those cleaners in Amsterdam who can't go anywhere, don't want to go anywhere. Our group and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will be strongly opposed if this means extending the misunderstanding to those who have not committed any crime. I also hope that is not the intention of what is in the coalition agreement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer by the Secretary of State in the first term. I have a few points to make, first of all the points I mentioned earlier which were still unanswered, where I hope to get an answer in the second term. I would like to come back to the point of those directions towards Dutch municipalities. In fact, there was only a half answer on what is now the legal basis. Then I hear that the situation is determined, and that spatial administrative law can be used for it. But I have not yet been able to find out anything about a specific mandate from this State Secretary to take coercive measures towards these municipalities to facilitate such housing, or at least to impose it. Of course, under state law, there are certain possibilities to intervene with a municipality, but we are talking about job neglect or all that kind of development. Then it must be very far-reaching and concrete to be able to do such a thing. So my question remains as follows. Measures must simply have a formal basis in our country. I'm sure the Secretary of State will be able to confirm that as a lawyer. I just miss that in this story. There is a compelling international question, according to the Secretary of State. But the international aspect, international law, relates to the Dutch government. Local autonomy is outside, basically. So my question remains: what formal basis is there to give that clue? What is included in the clue as a basis for saying to a congregation: you will have to accept this from the government? So I'd like to have some thought about that. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned it in the first period: according to the figures in this budget, 77% of asylum seekers who enter are single men. Then we now see a lot of municipalities that arrange emergency shelters, which facilitate asylum reception. It is then stopped: families are also coming, and it is very painful for those families, because there are children in Ter Apel who have to sleep in chairs at night. Those kinds of stories are literally held up as tear pullers to such a city council. With such emotional blackmail, a majority often agrees. Now, for example, we see the situation in the municipality of Oirschot. That's where a story like that was kept. It was a former addiction clinic. The city council was told that there would be 150 asylum seekers. 50 of them would be single minor refugees, children between 15 and 18 years of age, and 100 people would come, mostly in family life. That's what the college assumed. Still at that council meeting, information suddenly came from the COA that it would be mainly men. So you can see that a city council is told a completely different story than what's actually coming. So can the Secretary of State say again what's going on? Is there even a fair story told from the COA towards the municipalities? I'd like to give you the source. This was in the Eindhovens Dagblad last week. Then I come to my next point. Last night a decision was taken by a court, in Limburg or Maastricht, I believe. There was a situation with a family of status holders. They were assigned a place they thought was too small. Then it was said: you must accept that house. They didn't, and they're now being called equal by the judge. I would like to have a reflection of this Secretary of State on how this now relates to the Dutch house seeker. It has to be on a waiting list for years, and here we hear: within fourteen weeks, a status holder must have a place to work on his future. The Dutch have to wait ten, sometimes fourteen years for a social rental home, in order to work on their future with their families. How honest and sincere is this in relation to our Dutch house-seekers, and are they not simply discriminated against? Mr. Chairman. We're getting the story that those clues are coming. At the same time, we hear the story that these emergency shelters, the temporary emergency shelters, are going to be phased out. Can the Minister indicate a timetable within which such decisions are taken? Because there are now all kinds of research into, for example, spatial locations that may be used. The story is that it's for emergency shelter. Can the Minister indicate whether these municipalities will soon be overruled by the government in one go, saying that it should be a permanent reception site for several years, while perhaps now it is intended for a few months at most? Can this simply be given transparency and clarity? I had something else. Yeah, the asylum influx. It has just been rightly mentioned. The Minister... Sorry, the Secretary of State states: there is a high asylum influx and we continue to facilitate that reception as the Netherlands. At the same time, the Secretary of State says: we see a lot of lucky seekers coming in who use it. Isn't it important to have a clear lock on that door and say: we're not letting everyone in here? That's better than once everyone's inside, let's see what the situation is. At least a very large part turns out to be just a lucky seeker. Isn't that an impossible problem to solve with such numbers? I don't want to say "draw a dead horse." But a very limited part leaves. So once again, can we look at a limitation of the influx? As far as PVV is concerned, it will be completely discontinued. If the Secretary of State does not want to do so, the PVV wants to ensure that at least there is not until everyone is in the Netherlands, there will be another check on whether someone is a lucky seeker or not, and then stay here for years in the asylum system. We don't even know how many illegals there are here in the Netherlands. Mr President, that is my second term. Again, it is a memorable moment to speak for the last time here in this beautiful room. For this secretary of state, it was probably the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mrs Stienen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u75	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her input. In 2015, my maiden speech covered, among other things, the Reception and Procedure Directive in the beautiful Chamber. At that time, the Secretary of State was President of our beautiful home. Now we're here together. I look at that chair and I think, "This is a good time." It's nice to go through that together. On behalf of my group, I wanted to show in the first term that our support is very important. It's important that we see that there is. That support depends on a humane asylum system on the one hand and on a good return policy on the other. I therefore support those who are critical of the latter. I think that it would also benefit from careful language. On behalf of my group, I would like to make a comment on this. I just heard the Secretary of State use the word "happiness seekers" a few times. I know she's very careful. The IND trends show that the majority, almost 70%, consist of people coming from countries such as Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia. Those are countries where there is war and violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u76	At D66 people like to complain about the tone rather than talk about the content. Anyway, that's not what my interruption is about. Is Mrs. Stienen familiar with the Kantar investigation I quoted in the first term? This shows that the majority of Dutch people do not want much more immigration, let alone asylum migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u77	I think if we do a competition about investigating... I myself quoted Barbara Oomen's research. She has conducted an investigation in more than 200 municipalities about the council decision on whether or not we are going to include children from Moria. It turned out to be a lot of support for that. I can understand why we all have an obligation here to always be careful in that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u78	Sad children are, of course, another story. The bulk of the asylum entry, especially the happiness seekers and the people from safe countries, who cause all this crime, does not consist of sweet children in pitiful tent camps. Then you actually measure two different surfaces. Does Mrs. Stienen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u79	I do not think Mrs Nanninga and I will find each other here in how we should interpret these kinds of investigations, so I will leave it at that. Locking up on lucky seekers. 32% of the people who have applied for asylum come from other countries. Maybe that's what the Secretary of State means by "happiness seekers." My request is to be careful with what we call people asking for protection in the Netherlands. Finally, on the clue. I am actually very pleased with the letter from the former governor of Limburg, the acting mayor of Enschede, who said very nicely at the end of his letter: we have to provide shelter but we also have to take care of the concerns of our residents, but yes, it is Christmas and airport Twente will then be a place, a kind of inn. I think that's a good idea to close with. Then I've got one more viewing tip for everyone when it comes to young men. Take a look at the Golden Calf winning documentary Shadow Game. I see my nephews, who are not a lucky seeker, but who are trying to find safe protection from countries such as Afghanistan and Syria. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u80	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. Finally, Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u81	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Secretary of State for your reply. "A not insignificant proportion of the people who apply for asylum in the Netherlands do not meet the criteria for admission here. Many arrive from safe countries or have travelled through the Balkan route or one of the southern EU Member States. Some of it's never been registered. Many have no identity papers on them. The latter is usually not a coincidence; these people know very well that according to the rules they do not have a chance to obtain a residence permit. In the end, therefore, many people who apply here do not have the right to our protection. Then it is often not possible to force these people to return to the country of origin." This is a quote from the Secretary of State in the debate on the budget in the Lower House. The Secretary of State therefore always acknowledges that the problem exists and that it cannot be solved. The response is: "The European Commission's proposals for a well-functioning border procedure would be extremely helpful in protecting the asylum system." Another quote from the Secretary of State. So we hope for a proposal from the European Commission that could be helpful. That's bullshit. Denmark is also in Europe and there they get a year in what flows in here in two weeks. The argument that the Secretary of State rightly argued that, after ten years of disastrously low-level VVD policy, we have stuck ourselves in all kinds of rules and treaties, does not relieve the Secretary of State of the duty to do what it can within that straitjacket. To that end, our motions will be put to the vote. Because intervention, even within those treaties that undermine our sovereignty, is simply a choice. A choice that this Secretary of State has not made for years, even with this budget. Do not intervene, do not deliver an appropriate household booklet and hide behind procedures, while Denmark is doing what we really can and must do to a large extent. And yes, there are international obligations. We're standing there wringing hands. There's nothing we can do about it. What about all the crime and nuisance of asylum seekers? Yeah, that's because there aren't any apartments, even something like that. It just happens to us. It's not a result of conscious choices. This Secretary of State does not sound like the Secretary of State for asylum of a sovereign country, but as a completely flooded Secretary of State for natural phenomena: migration, asylum flows, regulation, no housing. Sexual harassment? Well, report it and we'll write it down. Extra police? No, that happens somewhere else, no influence on it either. Unfortunately. It's all happening. Zero influence on. She's standing there and she's looking at it. And call Morocco and Algeria to pick up their criminal robbers on penalties they'll see stars of? I can't do that either. Mr. Chairman. In this way, the problems and, I repeat, the support for those who may and may not have been resolved here will of course be solved. It's not gonna be okay. Mr. Chairman. We're not the worst. We would like to make two concrete proposals to the Secretary of State in the form of two motions for resolutions. I'll recite it with your permission. The: Mr Nanninga, Mr Berkhout and Mr Van Wely proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that until week 40, only 2,780 foreigners returned to their country of origin in 2021;]] [[Considering that the expected influx of asylum across 2021 is against 40,000 people;]] [[Whereas the asylum chain is therefore completely blocked;]] [[Whereas this puts enormous pressure on several facets of society;]] [[calls on the Government to present an action plan before the summer of 2022 to significantly increase the outflow of asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Nanninga, Mr Berkhout and Mr Van Wely proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in recent years EUR 1 million has always been made available to municipalities to combat asylum reception problems;]] [[noting that a large proportion of the so-called (criminal) safe-lords inside and outside the shelters cause nuisance and/or are guilty of crime;]] [[Whereas this has a significant negative impact on society;]] [[Whereas municipalities often do not have sufficient (financial) resources at their disposal to combat this problem effectively;]] [[calls on the government to provide structuralally EUR 5 million to municipalities that receive asylum seekers in order to effectively combat the asylum reception problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-C]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u82	That's me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u83	I thank Mrs Nanninga for her speech, but I have a question on the last motion. I hear that 5 million should be made available to combat the asylum problem. Should this be done within the current budget? That's the first thing. And what are we supposed to mean by "fighted"? Is the best fight not simply to close down those asylum centres or, even better, simply to close down our borders for those asylum migrants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u84	That is, of course, absolutely the goal that our group supports, but it is a fact that there are a lot of people here who are now causing a great deal of nuisance. As much as I want it, they won't be gone tomorrow and we can't turn the people around those asylum centres entrepreneurs, police and bus drivers over to what these people are causing. Well, I guess that's where the money's gonna have to go. I would also have preferred to spend it on something else, I say to the PVV, but something has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u85	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u86	"Money to it"... What should that money be spent on? If, so to speak, only nice things are done at those asylum seekers' centres to make things more cozy, to distribute play stations, and you name it instead of real enforcement... Can Mrs Nanninga be a little more concrete? What measures should be envisaged for the use of this money? Then I'd better point out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u87	Finally, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u88	That's a very good question. I think Mr Van Hattem knows me and my group better than to think that this should go to play stations and ping-pong tables. But it's a good, clarifying question. We are, of course, referring to enforcement and measures to improve security and, where appropriate, compensation. Of course, there's a lot of shoplifting and so on. It all takes time for entrepreneurs. So you have to look for it in that atmosphere, really in enforcement and repression, and certainly not in hugging projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u89	Thank you. We have arrived at the end of the second term of the Chamber. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u90	I think so, Mr President, but I would like to ask Mr Van Hattem something, because I wrote it down very sloppyly. He said I didn't answer a few questions in my first term. I have heard the question about the people with large families and the question about the 3,000 Afghans, but there was also something about migrant workers and something about NGOs. Maybe he could repeat those questions, because then I can take them with me right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u91	Thanks to the Secretary of State. There's been a policy investigation into... well, I've lost the floor myself. In any case, it concerns the perception of migration and its impact and also of labour migration on society. There is actually simply no clear picture of its effectiveness and results. At the same time, this budget is committed to promoting regular migration and labour migration. Family migrants and status holders are seen as a potentially important source for the labour market, which is not really based on anything. I would have liked to have a reaction to that. And are performance indicators linked to this when such policies are implemented? Then there's the other point. There was also a policy investigation into independent return. That research is also included in the documents of this budget. According to that study, self-employment is very ineffective. For this independent return, the International Organisation for Migration and NGOs are deployed. My question is: why do we continue to focus on this ineffective self-return policy instead of firmly focusing on forced return? I ask you to stop using these NGOs, which seem to have no results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u92	I would like to ask the Secretary of State and Mr Van Hattem to keep it short in the fourth term, otherwise I will be in trouble with a number of committee meetings that have yet to be held. You've had a lot of interruptions, Mr. Van Hattem, so maybe we can keep it brief for now. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, I'd be happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u93	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to Mrs Vos's point about stable funding. I think I have made it clear that there is indeed a commitment to stable funding, both for the COA and for the IND. That point is really important to my department. It is sometimes called "jojo policy." I do not want to use that expression, but it is indeed important for all concerned to have stable funding. There's a lot of work being done to do that. We will see this in the spring note and in the future, but we are currently working with the MPP last February. This stable funding is really an important point; I say this to Mrs Vos. I think it's very important, too. Then there's the junk statement. It's in the coalition agreement. I am not going to let that out of my mind as a missionary government and as a outgoing executive. Then there is an important question from Mr Van Hattem. I believe that I have already given a comprehensive answer to this question. I have also told him that I have to disappoint him with regard to that legal basis if he insists on me pointing it out in Article this paragraph 3 of the law so much in sub-paragraph so much. I said what the clue is based on. I also told him that the Empire could use all kinds of legal instruments to do so. But I have to disappoint him on that exact question. So it's asking for an answer that I'd already given. Then there is the question of the 77% single men in Oirschot. Is there a fair story being told? Yes, an honest story is being told, because I can assure Mr Van Hattem that those men deserve shelter too. Then there is the case of the Dutch judge who has righted a family in which Dutch house seekers are disadvantaged, at least according to Mr Van Hattem. That is indeed difficult, but I will have to say that I am not taking a decision from the Dutch judge. The Dutch judge is an independent person, an independent gremium. I think it is very important that we live in a rule of law in which decisions of this kind can be taken by the courts. Then a time plan for the designation for openness and clarity. The indication is a measure to solve the acute situation in which we now find ourselves, where we need 2,000 places by the end of this month. So we didn't choose crisis relief. I just explained that. It may be that there is still a single clue to follow, but we are not supposed to go from clue to clue to clue. We're open about that. We're clear about that. We'll talk about it at the national director's tables. We talk about it with the provincial director's tables through the national director's tables. And we'll talk about it with the state lords, too. So there's no mystery left. That's the thought behind it. To the question of a lock on the door for asylum and limiting the influx, I have already answered several times: the Netherlands does not. Then there is the study of migrant workers with performance indicators. Migrant workers can come to the Netherlands. Then there must be a referent. That referent can arrange that. A referral must be requested from the IND. If one is satisfied and can also demonstrate that there are no persons available for these places in the Netherlands, then someone can let a migrant worker pass through. That's the arrangement we have. We introduced them in modern migration policy a few years ago. We are committed as much as possible to independent return. It is being worked hard to ensure that people who have to return can return on their own, because that is much better than when they have to return. This has been very successful so far, but in the last year and a half, starting in March 2020, we are facing serious and very serious limitations due to covid. Mrs Stienen spoke of the term "happiness seekers." I agree with Mrs Stienen: I should not have used that word in this way. There is only a very small percentage, really a very small percentage, of people who are really lucky seekers, but I agree with Mrs Stienen that I have to be careful. There are people who come to the Netherlands and apply for asylum here, but are not entitled to asylum because they do not meet the requirements for asylum status as we know it in the Netherlands. I should have put it that way. Mrs Stienen also said something about the clue. It now applies to solve the acute situation of the 2,000 places we lack.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u94	That puts you at the end of your speech, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u95	No, no, no, Mr. Chairman, but I see Mr. Van Hattem standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u96	Shall we let the Secretary of State finish her speech first? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u97	Mrs Nanninga didn't actually have a question, but she did have two motions. I'd be a flooded Secretary of State. I'm not flooded at all, but it's a tricky wallet. There are things that go well, there are things that go bad. At the beginning of my speech I said that there are people who want to close all borders, there are people who want to receive everyone. In between, we need to find a solution for those who need our protection. We need places for that, too. We have people who can make a family travel. We need places for that. People who cause nuisance, people who may have wrong motives for coming here, all those cases need to be solved. I would also like to draw attention to the problem that COA has with recruiting people, just like everyone else in the Netherlands. The IND also has a problem with recruiting people. COA and IND also have people who are affected by covid and disease and cannot do their job or people who are in quarantine at home because family members are ill. The common problems that everyone has also have COA and IND. This means that every now and then it is not easy to make all these things happen as everyone might want in their most beautiful dreams. Me too. And I'm not flooded. Then there's the motions. On Mrs Nanninga's first motion, under letter C, I can be very faint and say that I must discourage it, because it says: before the summer of 2021. Ms Nanninga said 2021, but she probably meant 2022. If it says "2021" in the motion, it has to be adjusted. The motion then calls for an action plan before the summer of 2022. I must advise against this motion, because we are already working on a lot of intentions in this area. Asking for an action plan at the moment seems a little premature to me. We are very busy implementing EY's report and all its recommendations, such as better management, better planning, a more efficient approach to all sorts of things. We implement them in a very short term, a shorter term and a slightly longer term, but those are the actions we are undertaking. An action plan for the summer of 2022 is too short, and that is why I must discourage that motion. Then there is Mrs Nanninga's second motion, the motion with letter D, which calls for structural 5 million. Perhaps this has escaped Mrs Nanninga, but the tricky thing is that last year, with the 1 million I made available, there was money left. It wasn't all requested. Well, then it's kind of hard to say right now that we're going to bet $5 million. Of the 1 million we have said: the deadline is over, but if you still want to ask a few questions, we will open up that possibility, because there is still money left because not everything has been asked for. It is not always clear what the money can or should be spent on. Moreover, the 5 million cannot just be ripped out of the back pocket. That is a question of finance, but of course Mrs Nanninga understands that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u98	That puts you at the end of your speech, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u99	I still had the 3,000 Afghans of Mr Van Hattem. He had something about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u100	Then finish it first. Then we'll look after that... but you yourself are at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u101	Well, can I have those 3,000 Afghans...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u102	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u103	Mr. Van Hattem mentioned 3,000 Afghans. The number of approximately 3,000 Afghans concerns the total number that may come to the Netherlands. It's not like these 3,000 are still on top of the group that's already come. It is also a reference number. This has been reported to the European Commission to obtain a financial contribution from the EU-AMIF fund in order to reserve it. That's why we registered thirty-one hundred people because of that fund, because of the finances. I think it would be wise for financial management to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u104	And with that, you're at the end of your term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u105	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I've answered all the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u106	Then I will give Mr Van Hattem and Mrs Nanninga the chance to ask one more question. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That one question will then concern some outstanding questions, because I have not yet answered everything. That 3,000 was indeed still an issue. I understood that from a video by Commissioner Johansson, in which she talked about what had already come in. That was where the 40,000 for the whole of the EU came on top, and of that, the Netherlands would still have more than 3,000 to distribute. But in the second term I had asked a question about the promises made to municipalities that families will all come. In the end, they all turn out to be single men. What about the pattern of expectations from the COA towards all those municipalities and municipalities that agree? And I had asked about the situation around the Danish former minister. How does the Secretary of State look at the fact that a former member of the staff, who, knowingly, filled out her duties, is now going to prison? In addition, Nieuwersluis is still a women's prison, and also a very nice village that reassures the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u108	I answered that last question in the first term, as you may recall. I have also just answered the question about the men who come instead of the families.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u109	Perhaps the Secretary of State now wants to take up the word "asylum crisis" in view of the overflux of the chain, the huge numbers and the blockage of the housing market. We are now in a huge asylum peak; that was a peak at first, but it seems to be a kind of plateau. In that light, according to the Secretary of State, the 5 million could really go up if it were available in the coming years, given the huge increase we are facing and the huge shortage of shelter for those people, which is likely to increase the number of incidents...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u110	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u111	Do you think it's possible that those 5 million... I think it's pretty easy to go up against security, compensation, and so on? How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u112	I'd like a brief answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u113	Mr. Chairman. The 1 million was used effectively after we indicated for the second time that there was money left and asked who had another plan. We do not have this amount available at the moment, but if the year in question shows that it would be good to see if we could and should take additional measures in the light of the circumstances, then my department is very flexible. That was also the case with the one million I made available. Then my department sees at some point that might help or might. But I can't say that in advance. The present budget provides a solid basis for what we want to do and what we are doing, so at the moment I still have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u114	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-18.u115	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill at the end of the sitting tonight. I also propose that we vote on the motions that have been tabled. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would just like to remind you that this is a special day, because we meet for the last time at the Binnenhof. This is happening in a long-term process, of which you, Mrs Broekers-Knol, as my predecessor, have been part of the cradle, just as you have been part of the cradle of our temporary new location on the Kazernestraat, which I hope to be able to show you soon. I think it is appropriate to thank you once again here, at the moment, for all the efforts you have made in this regard. You yourself like French quotes, I think you remember. A winged quote from you, at least an expression that you used here often and which made a lot of impression from your mouth, was the following. If there was a lot of interference, you'd cut it off and say, "Tant piss." I've tried that myself many times, but then it didn't impress at all! So I'm doing my best. I could of course add: partir, c'est mourir un peu. But in your case, with your energy, knowledge and experience, it will probably be a matter of: reculer pour mieux sauter. In any case, I say adieu, a bientôt.
