ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the own-initiative proposal 32411, Proposal for a law of Mr Bergkamp, Mr Özütok and Mr Van den Hul, declaring that there is grounds for considering a proposal to change the Constitution to include disability and sexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to represent my colleague, Mr Ganzevoort, who actually wanted to speak here. Of course, that's not an easy task, but I'm doing my best. Mr. Chairman. While this Chamber is considering the launch of a parliamentary investigation into the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation, we are also discussing today an amendment to the anti-discrimination provision in the Constitution. A nice confluence of circumstances. It shows how much the freedom and equality of people can be under pressure and how much we seem to be concerned about this. Combating discrimination is very important for our free, tolerant and inclusive society. More than in the past, we are aware that differences between people result in some getting more opportunities and back-up and more privileges, and others through whom they encounter more thresholds and more resistance. It is therefore essential for an inclusive society to see how we can reduce the thresholds. In that sense, the Constitution moves along. An appropriate metaphor of the Constitution is that of a house in which we live together. That house occasionally needs care and attention, small and large renovations to grow along with the changing family composition. That is why my group would like to thank and praise the initiators of this proposed renovation and the defenders who have followed them and are standing here today for their commitment to this bill. With this proposal, they are laying down in this House of the Constitution extra room for people who, because of their sexual orientation or because of their disability, may face additional thresholds and resistance in society. With this, the message of this constitutional change is that in the Netherlands your sexuality and your physical limitations should not be a ground for being obstructed in your functioning. I would also like to emphasise that we are talking here today in particular about standards. The Constitution is of a sober nature and therefore always calls for an impact in underlying laws, such as the General Law on Equal Treatment. On this point, my group still has a few questions, because the amendment of the Constitution creates some tension that may still have to be resolved. For example, when adopting this bill in the Constitution, it states that there should be no discrimination on grounds of "sexual orientation" while the General Law speaks of equal treatment as regards "hero- and homosexual orientation." The government's answers to questions from the Labour Party follow the principle that the Constitution is leading and that the General Law on Equal Treatment must therefore follow the interpretation of the Constitution. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she also believes that following the amendment of the Constitution on this point, the AWGB will also have to be amended, so that bisexuals, pansexuals, omnisexuals, queers and others will enjoy the same protection as heterosexuals and homosexuals. I am also asking this so emphatically because in the Netherlands judges are still not allowed to review the Constitution. It would be very sad if we now set this generous standard and then the narrower interpretation in the General Law would continue to be equal treatment as a test ground. Is the Minister prepared to agree that this change of law will be prepared after the constitutional change has been accepted? This translation is legal and not political, so perhaps even a outgoing minister can promise that. At the same time, I have a question for the initiators. We had asked in the written rounds whether it is sufficiently clear and explicit that discrimination against transgender and intersex persons falls within the scope of gender discrimination. In this context, the initiators replied that gender identity, gender expression and gender are explicitly covered by the General Law on equal treatment and that it should therefore be interpreted in this way in the Constitution. That seems to my group to be a reverse argument, because precisely the Constitution lays down the standard and the AWGB lays down the elaboration. We can well follow the reasoning that the Constitution only formulates the broader ground, such as gender or sexual orientation, and that the General Law on Equal Treatment concreteises this in different aspects or variants. But when it comes to consistency of reasoning, it must be clear that the Constitution is leading. Do the initiators agree with this? The further reply then states that awareness in this area still requires accompanying policies. Our society often assumes that gender is binary: either you are man or you are woman. This leads to uncomfortable moments for transgenders, intersex subjects and non-binary fellow citizens with great regularity. If we are honest, it is precisely at this point that we have seen a counter-movement over the last few years that opposes the acceptance of trans-, intersex and non-binary persons. On the conservative side, whether Christian or not, in recent years we have been acting against what is called gender ideology, but what is really nothing but the standard of equal treatment laid down by the Constitution in the General Law. Your gender, including gender characteristics, gender identity and expression, doesn't matter. That is why I ask the initiators how they look at this social headwind and what needs to be done in their eyes. I ask the Minister how the government works on awareness and acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u4	I hear Mrs Karimi van GroenLink's comments on opposition from the Christian side to this kind of gender expression. But isn't there a much more serious problem, namely the, to put it mildly, tough opposition, from the Islamic side, where, for example, transgenders are harassed, abused and treated in the most terrible way, because of Islamic ideology? This is a much bigger, heavier and more violent problem in Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u5	I think it should be clear to Mr Van Hattem that GroenLinks condemns any form of discrimination wherever it comes from. This certainly applies to myself, who knows very well what these societies can mean to women or to people who experience their sexuality in a different way. I can only express my disgust at that. The Constitution treats everyone equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u6	It is good that Mrs Karimi also expresses her disgust at this. However, why, in her speech, does she only mention the Christian problem and not the danger of Islam? Because that is a very one-sided approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u7	The parties that have expressed gender ideology are the parties that are now represented in our system. These are, in particular, conservative and Christian parties. As far as I know, we do not have an Islamic party in our parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u9	That Islamic party... well, DENK is quite a step in that direction, we'll say. Those parties are also always willing to listen to parties such as GroenLinks, the Labour Party and so on. So there is enough room to convey their Islamic message. Apparently, GroenLinks doesn't put them in the way. But I'd like to ask you what you said earlier. You said that if the composition of the family changes, then we must also amend the Constitution. Are you also saying that if the Netherlands were to become increasingly Islamic in the future, let us hope that this never happens and that we should combat it in every possible way, and some of society says that we should introduce Sharia, then the Constitution should adapt to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mrs. Karimi, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u11	I'm getting a little tired of this racket from the PVV. This is precisely a movement in which we advocate greater equality and anti-discrimination. GroenLinks is co-initiator of this. You stand there and start up your familiar revelation that it would be about Sharia and a constitutional adjustment in that direction. No, GroenLinks is certainly true for myself, but also for the other members of GroenLinks.. will always stand for a society where equality, emancipation and human values are central.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u13	Pf... I think I had...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u14	It has just been mentioned that there might be a problem with gender ideology from the Christian home. Ideology is a system of standards and such that may be politically translated. There's nothing wrong with that. Does Mrs Karimi mean that the word 'genderideology' should indeed not be used, as the European Commission seems to advocate at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u15	What we are arguing here is that gender equality, the freedom to experience who you are, is a fundamental right that can be enshrined in our Constitution. That is what we want. Do you have to call that ideology? Be my guest, I'd say. The point is that we should not be derogatory with regard to the attempts to establish gender equality and sexual orientation in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you. I note that we do not need to run away from that word, and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u18	Please continue your speech, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. In view of these debates, discussions and movements in society, I ask the initiators how they look at this social headwind. What should happen in their eyes? I ask the Minister how the government works on awareness and acceptance. And then to the other explication of the discrimination ground handicap. Here the norm seems much more self-evident. Of course, you can't discriminate against people because of their physical limitations. However, the debate on its inclusion in the Constitution has been going on for decades. This may be related to the scope of the concept of disability. What counts and what doesn't count as disability? It may also be related to the question of what kind of fundamental right is meant here. Indeed, while classical fundamental rights are primarily about protecting the individual from pressure and pressure from the government, fundamental social rights are about the responsibility of the government to meet the basic needs of the individual, such as health, livelihood and education. In the discussion it is clear that in the area of discrimination, disability has a strong social component. For my group, this raises the question of what is needed to make this basic social right sufficiently responsive to people living with disabilities. The Netherlands ratified the UN Convention for People with Disabilities in 2016 and this has also been implemented in the Equal Treatment Act for People with Disabilities or Chronic Disease. However, the Optional Protocol, which is part of the UN Convention, has still not been signed despite appeals from this Chamber since at least 2014. This Optional Protocol, which is already in 2006, is important because it makes room for individual right of complaint, so that citizens can also rely on something. In examining this ratification, the government promised to inform the Senate of the timetable in which the proposals for ratification will be presented to Parliament. That commitment is still open. Every time this Chamber asks for it, we get the answer that it is complex, that it has to be careful and that we are informed when there is news. And then we hear nothing again until we reappear, and then we get the same answer. So we don't even know what the government's timetable is. That is why I am once again asking what is going on with the Optional Protocol. How can it be that the successive governments are signing today and want to anchor in the Constitution that people with disabilities should not be discriminated against, but at the same time do not want to commit themselves to a treaty-based protocol that gives citizens with disabilities real rights that they can enforce? How is it that in 2016 the government promises to define its position within a few months, including the steps to be taken, and five years after that is not yet a step further? Despite repeated questions, despite the fact that the opinion of the Council of State is long overdue, despite the fact that the Optional Protocol is now 15 years old. Therefore, this question to the Minister: what does she think that this proposal will include in the Constitution that people with disabilities should not be discriminated against and that, at the same time, the government has been training the decision-making process on the Optional Protocol for many years and thus making it impossible for these same people to invoke their rights? Does the government agree with my group that Article 1 of the Constitution is more than a beautiful symbolic text and that it is a question of helping people? Can she therefore tell us how things stand with the signing of the Optional Protocol? What are the obstacles to finally doing that? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I reiterate my appreciation and thanks to the initiators and defenders of the proposal. I look forward to their answer, but to the government's response in particular. After the constitutionalist speaks the legislator, and after the legislative power it is up to the executive to make it happen. The inclusion of discrimination grounds disability in the Constitution means that we now finally have to sign the Optional Protocol. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Mrs Baay on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u21	I understand that Mrs Karimi is replacing Mr Ganzevoort and that it may be a more difficult question for her. Last week we adopted the report of the Temporary Committee on the Preparation of Parliamentary Research Effectiveness against Discrimination legislation, a mouthful. This shows a little bit that legislation already lays down a great deal in terms of non-discrimination, but that there is a gap between the paper law and the law in practice. How does Mrs Karimi intend to bridge that gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u22	I don't think we've established that report yet. Maybe there'll be a debate. We will hear that this afternoon, but I thank you for that question, because that protocol is now exactly what I have been calling for. At the moment, for example, when people can simply claim their rights with that Optional Protocol in their hand, you can also in practice promote the translation of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u23	Of course, if something is fixed in a protocol, it will make it stronger, but we have, of course, already a lot of non-discrimination, which is legally enforceable, also with the Dutch courts, through the European Convention on Human Rights. My question to Mrs Karimi is to what extent she will see that these two additions to the exhaustive list of Article 1 in the Constitution will make an additional contribution to this enforceability. What does she expect from the addition of sexual orientation and disability in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u24	Now I understand your question better. There is, of course, a social change that we are now adapting to in our Constitution. That was also the metaphor of the house: if society changes, you also have to make some changes to it. That is to make it clear at the level of the Constitution that discrimination based on sexual orientation and disability is as undesirable and prohibited as on the basis of your race. So in that respect, I think it is very important that this addition should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mrs Baay, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my own contribution, I will come back to the extent to which there is no discrimination in any way whatsoever, either on religion, nationality or sexual orientation or disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u28	We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u29	I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the corona and the smooth roads, today is a festive day, not only because my party was founded today exactly 75 years ago, but also because we are discussing an important legislative initiative here today. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators of this bill, representatives of D66, GroenLinks and the PvdA. Preparing an own-initiative proposal will cost a great deal of work and perseverance, which is very much appreciated. However, since the original idea dates back to 2010, this appreciation extends to the predecessors of the Dutch Parliamentary Assembly, Boris van der Ham, Naïma Azough, Liesbeth van Tongeren and our fellow party members Anja Timmer and Pierre Heijnen. Mr. Chairman. This is not just an initiative proposal. It concerns the first article of the Constitution. Although most Dutch people, 84% in 2008, do not know the content of the Constitution very well or at all, as Wim Voermans writes in his recent book on the Constitution, most of them can spontaneously indicate what they think of the most important principles of that Constitution. And then equality and the prohibition of discrimination, indeed Article 1, will roll out in this way. According to Voermans, these principles are internalized. Although most Dutch people do not know the text of the Constitution, they do know the story. The story that tells us who we want to be. And that starts with Article 1, the non-discrimination clause. The two sentences of that article sometimes adorn walls of council halls and provincial houses, and near here, at the Courtyard, we can read them on the Constitutional Bank. I just walked by: there is room to extend the sofa and add a few more words to it. This is what the legislative proposal is about: the inclusion of the terms "disability" and "sexual orientation" as non-discrimination principles in the second sentence of Article 1. The first sentence reads: "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally." In the second sentence it is said that discrimination is not permitted on the basis of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground. This proposal therefore adds two explicit non-discrimination grounds, namely disability and sexual orientation. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is clearly in favour of this bill. Of course, you can say that the two new concepts are already covered by the last words of the second sentence, "or on whatever basis." That's right. So you could only call the inclusion of these two terms symbolic. But symbolism is extremely important. It sends a powerful signal to people who sometimes feel excluded by this society because of their disability or sexual orientation. It is a signal that they, like everyone else, are fully part of it. Of course, a constitutional change is not enough to really change things in practice, but the standard is made explicit by it and, as such, can, albeit indirectly, also work through in ordinary legislation and in court rulings. But there are still a number of questions to ask about this fine initiative. The first question is whether this constitutional provision also affects the movement between citizens, the horizontal effect. If this provision in the Constitution does not first and foremost refer to the protection of citizens from a powerful government, I ask the proposers and the minister. This state should not discriminate on the basis of disability or sexual orientation, but should it also discriminate against the citizens themselves? If so, what plans and initiatives do I ask the Minister to combat not only government discrimination on these characteristics but also to help prevent discrimination by citizens among themselves? Sometimes that's a tricky matter. I recently read an interesting graduation thesis by the historian Nina Littel on the relations between the Ihbti movement and the disabled movement in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Both movements are served by this bill, you might say, but the practice is unwieldy. In practice disabled people are excluded not only by society as a whole, but also by the disabled world and by the lesbian and gay community. This example is not intended to focus solely on the specific group of disabled people, who are particularly difficult, but to show that a constitutional change alone is insufficient to reduce exclusion in practice. I would like to have a reflection on this from the authors and from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A second question, addressed in particular to the Minister, concerns the legal impact of the explicit inclusion of certain non-discrimination grounds. Does it lead explicitly to better legal protection against discrimination or does it not matter at all? Can the term "or on any ground" include grounds such as age, surname or social origin? Are they less or just as much protected as the non-discrimination grounds mentioned? Can the Minister clarify once again exactly what the legal effect of explicitly naming non-discrimination grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution is? A third question concerns the effects of the inclusion of these two grounds on the possibility of positive discrimination. How, for example, does the explicit inclusion of the term "disability" relate to the preferred policy aimed at creating equal opportunities for disabled people in the labour market? Can the initiators answer this specific question and also address the more general question of how the explicit inclusion of non-discrimination grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution relates to policies aimed at positive discrimination against certain groups of citizens? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a more general question addressed to both the initiators and the minister. When is a constitutional change justified? During the discussion in the House of Representatives, extensive attention was paid to the constitutional maturity or broad social acceptance of the proposal. We now have a very difficult procedure in the Netherlands for amending the constitution, with two readings in two chambers, with a two-thirds majority required in both chambers at second reading. A very rigid Constitution, as it is called. There are good reasons for making an amendment to the Constitution subject to more stringent procedural requirements than ordinary law. After all, it is the Constitution. But why, I ask the Minister and the initiators, should there be other requirements besides those procedural requirements, such as constitutional maturity or broad social acceptance, which should be subject to a constitutional change? Are they not already determined in the heavier procedural requirements? Is the debate on constitutional maturity or social acceptance not an exercise in superfluousness, which, moreover, only leads to confusion? For how is that maturity or acceptance to be determined, other than by those procedural requirements? Should Thorbecke have passed his Constitution in 1848 if he had first convinced others of constitutional maturity or broad social acceptance? Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I sometimes wondered how happy we should be with this bill. For should human dignity and non-discrimination not be self-evident, as the American constitution speaks of truths that are "self-evident"? But the practice unfortunately shows that discrimination is the order of the day. Then it is good that discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation is expressly prohibited in the first article of the Constitution, however self-evident that standard should be. That is why I welcome the whole Group of the Party of European Socialists and I welcome the fact that we are having this debate today on an important initiative proposal. I look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr Koole. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the initiators for the great work they have done in coming up with this draft Constitutional Amendment. And I wish Mr Baljeu every success in his maiden speech. Together with the initiators, the members of the 50PLUS Group support the importance of combating discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation; let there be no misunderstanding about that. My group is calling for all forms of discrimination to be eliminated, which makes an undue difference in the treatment of people on the basis of personal characteristics. People are not allowed to treat, disadvantage or exclude because of personal characteristics, because all who are in the Netherlands must be treated equally. It is already prohibited to discriminate on any ground, having regard to the collective clause contained in Article 1 of the Constitution. This legislative proposal seeks to amend the said article of the Constitution with regard to the already existing explicitly mentioned non-discrimination of religion, belief, political orientation, race and sex by adding two bans on discrimination, that of sexual orientation and disability. According to the applicants, the motivation to remove these two long-established grounds from the scope of the collective clause by making them specific is that there is sufficient need for this and that the discussion on them is sufficiently crystallised. My group considers that to be somewhat vague. Indeed, the need to combat discrimination in any category is already covered by the collective clause and is perpetuated by formal legal regulations. Discrimination is prohibited by law, even if there are discussions about it in society. With great attention my group has read the arguments and considerations of the authors, but it cannot always place them in terms of the specific added value of including the proposed two categories. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the view of Professor Van den Berg, who was expressed in his book "For the sake of justice. On law and power in democracy" on Article 1 Constitution. He stated that Article 1 would be "majorized'. The article is made up to much more than it is. The doctrine of our contemporary Constitution is based on the core idea of the British legal theorist mister Wheare. A constitution had to include the "very minimum" and "that minimum had to be rules of law." In other words, principles such as the coherence of democracy and the rule of law are not included, because they cannot be enforced in court. The austerity of our Constitution has been cited earlier by the Council of State in its opinion on this bill of amendment. 27 August 2010, based on the principle that provisions in the Constitution must be resistant to sudden and time-bound political impulses. Mr. Chairman. In principle, 50PLUS shares this view. Suppose, in the hypothetical case, that 50PLUS will obtain 40 seats in the forthcoming Lower House elections, it would certainly be reasonable to argue that there is a need for the adaptation of Article 1 Constitution by adding the prohibition of discrimination "age'. Whether another political party by majority calls for the addition of a non-discrimination ground for having a double nationality, a current fact given the premium affair. For example, the restrictive list of non-discrimination bans should be adjusted every time a political spectrum is changed, since it is believed that explicit appointment will give rise to a certain added value for that category. But is it? The opinion of the Council of State and the comments of the applicants of 14 September 2012 refer to the 1996 Report on Disability Law and the 2004 Opinion of the Equal Treatment Committee, which does not make it clear whether the explicitly stated grounds in Article 1 enjoy more protection than those that have not been appointed. Mr. Chairman. The case-law of these opinions teaches us that a judge does not make his judgement dependent on whether an alleged discrimination is explicitly mentioned in Article 1 of the Constitution or not. Mr Koole has already drawn attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u33	50PLUS seems to work that this constitutional amendment is not necessary because it adds nothing. It also seems that specific groups should not be appointed separately. However, your party's position at the moment is that the group of older people should be taken out and added explicitly. How do you reconcile your contribution so far with your party's view that senior citizens should be appointed separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u34	It is always a danger to ask halfway through these questions, because I will come back to this in detail in my further contribution. In principle, I would like to be informed as to why a particular category, whether it is about sexual orientation, disability, age or dual nationality... Again, I would stress very clearly that we are opposed to any form of discrimination. However, the question is to what extent it is desirable at all times to clarify and add a particular category from the category of group to the currently exhaustive list of the five prohibitions on discrimination in Article 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u35	But you're gonna handle that, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u36	I'm gonna go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u37	So we'll hear it again later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u38	Of course you'll hear it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u39	Shall we wait and see, Mr. Van der Burg? Mr. Kox of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u40	For the sake of clarity, I hear Mrs Baay say 'the exhaustive list of Article 1' three times, but if Article 1 is not one thing, it is a limitative list. That has been clear from the beginning, and that is not changed by this bill either. Everything referred to in Article 1 is then caught under "or on any ground." It is precisely the exclusion of limitivity that is a beautiful word... is the characteristic of our constitutional articles. It seems to me that this should continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u41	I did use the term "limitative." Perhaps "the specifically mentioned bans on discrimination" would be the better terminology. That might be a better terminology for that. Because, of course, the collective clause prohibits discrimination for each category.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u42	Words have meaning, especially in this case. The use of the word "limitative" in relation to Article 1 of our Constitution is completely out of fashion, and we must, above all, keep it that way. The specific mention of certain categories is not, according to the usual theory, a reason to say that the forms of discrimination mentioned therein would be of a different order than any other form of discrimination. I think we should keep that clear, otherwise we are going to undermine the nature of Article 1, and that does not seem to me to be the intention of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u43	Again, for 50PLUS, the aggregate category has absolutely the same value as the specific prohibition of discrimination mentioned in Article 1. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u44	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u45	A judge assesses the material gravity of a discriminatory act or expression and thus arrives at his judgement, taking into account the morals of society in force. My group concludes that there is no legal added value of inclusion in the specific list. Then the more symbolic added value remains possible. This implies that other grounds on which discrimination takes place would be of a different order. The prohibition grounds listed have a different status from those set out in the collective clause. What does that say about the hardness of the aforementioned or unmentioned non-discrimination grounds, I ask the proposers. Can the authors explain to my group why it is desirable to distinguish between the various prohibition of discrimination at all? Is there, in their view, a substantial difference between discrimination based on sex, religion or age, since violation of the prohibition always violates the equal treatment of persons in equal situations? Therefore, I ask the initiators if making such a distinction in a material sense is not discrimination in itself. I would like to give them an explanation of this view. Mr. Chairman. Right is living matter. A society is changing and views from the year 1921 are incomparable to those of today. Law moves along with this change through legal adjustments and case law and thus reflects the right social views. 50PLUS fully understands that for many, the current list of the prohibition of discrimination in Article 1 of the Constitution may be too limited. However, the question arises immediately: if this list needs to be adjusted, why does this change not take place in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and the EU Working Convention, or in the General Law on Equal Treatment, by analogy with the above-mentioned non-discrimination bans? Applicants themselves refer to this in order to justify the addition of the categories of disability and sexual orientation, but do not include other explicitly mentioned non-discrimination clauses in the Charter and the Convention, such as birth, age, ethnic or social origin, language or genetic characteristics. Why are these equally important personal characteristics not taken into account in order to combat discrimination? Is this a case of cherrypicking? Can the authors elaborate on this? Mr. Chairman. Then my group would like to hear from the authors exactly what is meant by the term'sex'. The general law on equal treatment explicitly refers to gender identity, gender expression and gender traits in the further reply and the letter of the Minister of State dated 18 December 2020. The results of the European Court since 2003 also indicate that sexual orientation falls under the term "sex." Due to the social acceptance in the field of sexual orientation, which fortunately has taken a huge flight in recent years, the further breakdown between "sex" and "sexual orientation" has not become superfluous, I ask the proposers. For example, would the concept of "race" not require a further breakdown into those of "race" and "skin colour"? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Another question to the authors about the concept of disability. Why was the term "disability" chosen instead of "limitation"? In general, the term "disability" often evokes a visual image of someone in a wheelchair or with a prosthesis. Few citizens will realise that this includes chronic illness. The term "limitation" is much wider and is also used by the umbrella organisation (Every). Therefore, please explain the use of the term "disability" in this bill. Mr President, in conclusion. Let me stress once again that 50PLUS strongly rejects any form of discrimination and therefore embraces the non-discrimination grounds of disability and sexual orientation. That is not what the debate is about as far as my group is concerned today. 50PLUS has questions about the thinking behind the drafting of this bill and hopes to obtain the necessary clarity through additional answers from the initiators. Mr President, that is my contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u46	A lot of questions have been asked by 50PLUS to the initiators. Among other things, the word "cherrypicking" was included. Can you answer the questions that you undoubtedly posed as a party when you decided to be a party to the need to explicitly refer to older people in the Constitution? Can you share with us how you answered it yourself? How did you, as a party, look at the explicit inclusion of elderly people? Did you see that as cherrypicking? In short, can you share with us your own views on older people in relation to the questions you have asked the initiators?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u47	With great pleasure. 50PLUS has made a strong effort to include age in the legislative amendment of Article 1. But the amendment was not adopted in the House of Representatives, so we are not dealing with it either. It is the same reasoning that I follow in my contribution: do you not discriminate against other categories if you remove a category from the collective clause and is that not discrimination against those other categories? It may be necessary to consider each time which category should be removed from the collection clause in order to give a certain signal to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u48	The answer continues to ask 50PLUS questions, while I am concerned about the answers. The questions you ask don't you discriminate against others by taking out a category? 50PLUS has stated itself and then concluded: no, that is not the case; 50PLUS will never discriminate, but we believe that older people should be explicitly mentioned in the Constitution, and that is not a form of discrimination against other groups that are not explicitly mentioned. If that is the reasoning of 50PLUS, isn't it the same for the two groups that are drawn from the group by the initiators?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u49	50PLUS never wanted to have the word "elderly" in Article 1 of the Constitution. It is about the age category, and that is another indication, because age can also affect young people. Age discrimination is also prohibited in the Netherlands. If the need, together with the ground that the discussion has been crystallized in society, is the basis on which you assess whether you take something from a collection category and then specifically include it in the already existing row, then I would like to repeat that I would very much like to know from the initiators whether that is a desirable course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u51	Yeah, finally. I admit that 50PLUS never said that "older" should be included in the Constitution, but that "age" should be included in the Constitution. You are right; you did say so in the House of Representatives. This is without prejudice to the fact that you consider that a particular category should be removed from the collection category, in this case age, and that as a 50PLUS you have concluded that the questions you ask the initiators can be answered negatively, because 50PLUS does not discriminate, so you would not have suggested otherwise. Did you not already answer the questions you put to the initiators by answering the question to yourself about age?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u52	Finally, Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u53	50PLUS... I insist that it is the question of whether it is desirable to go down the road again and again, depending on political developments, to see whether a particular category should be removed from the assembly clause. I would like to hear from the proposers and the initiators how they feel about this and whether this is going to be the usual course of action for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u54	Follow up on this. Mrs Baay, on the one hand, used the term "living right" and, on the other, she also referred to a restrictive list or specific non-discrimination grounds. She also used a term as "cherrypicking." If you really think that right is alive, what is the objection to adding two additional non-discrimination grounds now, even if there might be another ground in 20 years' time? 30 years ago, these two grounds were not in it. If Mrs Baay really thinks that the right should be alive, why does she actually continue to strive for a restrictive list, in the sense of: either all the grounds should be in it or nothing at all? Why does Mrs Baay do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u55	We can't use the word "limitative" anymore, I understand. You have never heard me say that specifically listed grounds should never be extended, quite the contrary. I say, if you change that, why not together with all kinds of other non-discrimination bans, so that they can be levelled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u56	So I will explain that as an exhaustive list: that is what they are. So if you had another one, you'd be discriminated against right now because the one isn't there yet. You are assuming the idea of a restrictive list, but on the other hand you have used the word 'living right'. If you were to assume that, you could go a lot further. You then say: this I embrace and what might be added to the land in twenty years' time, who knows? The Constitution, however difficult it may be to amend, is not a static document, but a living document, which is not often amended, but sometimes. We'll be able to look at it in 20 years. But if you hold on to that exhaustive list, it will never become a living document.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u57	In particular, I have stressed that justice is a living thing. The Constitution is a fairly static law for a reason. Underlying legislation is much easier to change and can also be much easier to define. This will also be included in procedures rather than in purely and exclusively Article 1 of the Constitution, precisely because there is specific legislation. I have also asked Mrs Karimi about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u58	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u59	I would therefore ask Mrs Baay, above all along the line of living law, to reason in this debate and to leave behind the idea of a restrictive list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Today we are discussing the initiative legislative proposal of the Dutch MPs Bergkamp van D66, Özütok van GroenLinks and Van den Hul van de Partij van de Arbeid. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, we congratulate these Members, their assistants and their advisers on their initiative. It always takes a lot of work and perseverance to get an initiative bill on the floor here in the Upper House. So congratulations. It is also nice to see that this actually builds on an earlier initiative, taken by several MPs. I can now remember Boris van der Ham van D66 in particular in 2010, other MPs were also involved. It is therefore good to see how many political generations are concerned about this issue. As long as I am doing compliments now, also a compliment to the Labour Party for their 75th anniversary. Congratulations. Mr. Chairman. Today's initiative adds the concepts of "disability" and "sexual orientation" as grounds for non-discrimination to the list set out in Article 1 of the Constitution. Now we in the Netherlands often think that we are at the forefront of issues such as homosexuality. I often heard that about 25 years ago, when, as a member of the Dutch Parliament, I advocated the opening up of marriage to couples of equal sex. Although the Netherlands was the first to open that marriage on 1 April, that is exactly twenty years ago...... but that does not mean that we are at the forefront on all fronts of this issue of sexual orientation and gender identity. When it comes to what we have achieved in terms of legislation and policy, we in Europe are not even among the top ten countries, and that is what ILGA-Europe makes painfully clear every year in its research. When it comes to sexual orientation in the Constitution, which we are talking about today, we see that countries outside the European Union have already gone before us. I refer to South Africa, Nepal, Bolivia, Mexico and Ecuador. Mr. Chairman. When I focus on the bill we are discussing today, there are a number of aspects that I would like to raise on behalf of D66. The first aspect is the question of why we should not simply delete all those grounds already in the Constitution and not have in Article 1 a very bald article of 'discrimination on any ground is not allowed'? I have seen in the documents that the SGP takes that view in the light of an amendment tabled by them in the House of Representatives. In my opinion, that was rather unsuspecting, because it also throws away the explicit protection of religion, for example. Apparently that is what the SGP wants, but almost the entire House of Representatives, including D66, voted against that amendment. We, of D66, consider it important that the grounds for non-discrimination are explicitly mentioned. The Constitution is a living document, words matter, words hold, and so are words in the text of the Constitution. This increases the meaning of the Constitution. Citizens and civil society organisations are aware of what is and cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u62	I note that for the first time in the 102th anniversary of the SGP we are being blamed for being inconvenient. I find that very special. But I do not think that Mr Bishop, who had tabled that amendment, is doing justice. He did refer to a more sober article, but that element of religion does not necessarily have to be in Article 1 because Article 6 of the Constitution adequately protects religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u63	But what you are saying is that the SGP's proposal was to get it out of the text of Article 1, the non-discrimination article. I maintain my view that I find that unsuspecting because it is so important that you can read in Article 1 on which grounds you should not discriminate. If you then take the freedom of religion from it, and only refer to Article 6, you will, as it were, mobilize some kind of counter-force. I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u64	One more attempt to dampen that inconvenientness. Mr Bishop's proposal was not to remove Article 1, namely discrimination in general, from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u65	No, but I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u66	Okay. Then let's be clear about that. His wording did indeed take out those specific terms, but the anti-discrimination remained intact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u67	Unfortunately, I have to say that I find that rather unsuspecting because if you take out those specific grounds and only leave a bald Article 1 text 'no discrimination is possible on any basis', people in society will no longer be able to see on what specific grounds the article is monitoring. Mr. Chairman. The next question is, of course, what do you include in the text of the Constitution? Because the concepts that are in it, of course, remain what you do call container concepts. For example, when we talk about the ground religion that is forbidden, it is not specifically listed that it is Christian faith, or the Jewish, or the Islamic faith. And so it is, of course, also in the case of disability. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like once again to make it clear that we, like the initiators and, I understand, the government, believe that the term 'disability' also refers to chronic and psychological diseases. This is important, because patients suffering from it are often the victims of discrimination. So they really deserve that explicit protection from the Constitution. This protection is also enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where the concept is also widely interpreted. By the way, I heard Mrs Karimi ask a very interesting question about the protocol. I'd like to join in on that. I am very curious to hear the Government's answer to that question. Mr. Chairman. Under the term "sexual orientation," which is also mentioned in the case law of international treaties and regulations as "sexual orientation," bisexuality, pansexuality, omnisexuality, asexuality, queers is also included. D66, I'd like to say here in the First Chamber supports that broad explanation. The question therefore arises when such concepts can be included in the Constitutional text. There was a debate on this before. Such concepts are not included in the text of the Constitution until there is constitutional maturity, legal and social necessity, including public acceptance. Moreover, I think this is very important to note that his disability and sexual orientation are very personal. You can't abandon it at all without denying your own identity. Mr. Chairman. A fourth question that the D66 group had to the initiators, but also to the government, was about age discrimination. The initiators did not include them in the text of their proposal. The Council of State once again looked at this separately, at the request of the House of Representatives, and concluded that age as a ground for non-discrimination does not belong in the Constitution. Then I quote the Council of State: "Life is not a premeditated suspicious ground, but often a functional criterion. The legislator's margins for using age as a criterion of discrimination are also significantly wider than those of the named grounds and grounds of disability and sexual orientation." Moreover, the Council of State says that the other grounds also have a very different history of structural persecution, of far-reaching legal disadvantage, which is not the case at age. Following that reasoning, I must say that D66 has been persuaded by it. I would like to hear examples from the government and from the initiators about this legal disadvantage and structural consequences, that is to say the history of this social specification. Moreover, the initiators have answered our questions about discrimination against transgender people in the written preparation. Genderidity, gender expression, gender traits are already covered by the above-mentioned grounds of protection, according to case law. They do not therefore need to be included separately in the text of the Constitution. But, of course, it is a fact of common knowledge that transgender people in particular are still encountering a great deal of discrimination, according to investigations by the Fundamental Rights Agency. It is also apparent from investigations by the COC and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. So we have to take a very good look at that. My question to the initiators and to the government is: what more is needed in terms of legislation and policies to protect transgender people from discrimination in particular? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. D66 wholeheartedly supports the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u68	If you finish your speech, I shall give the floor to Mr Koole. You're almost done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u69	Yeah, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u70	Then I'd be happy to give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u71	Handicapism and sexual orientation in the constitutional text is, of course, a good step forward, but however important, we must bear in mind that the interpretation of the text in the Constitution does not mean that discrimination will be avoided in everyday life. The experiences of people with physical or mental disabilities, the experiences of people from the lhbtq community speak volumes in this respect. That is why we must be constantly alert and we must also express our opposition to all forms of discrimination. To do so, we need civil society organisations such as the COC or Each (in), the organisation of people with physical disabilities, intellectual disabilities or chronic illness, to point out to us when this type of social problems arise. I ask the government and the initiators how they see this, the interaction between civil society organisations and politics. And finally, Mr. Chairman, we are like D66 excited about this bill. We're gonna support it. The beauty of it is that it is an amendment to the Constitution. I am already looking forward to seeing the initiators here in the First Chamber after the Dutch Parliamentary elections in March when we are going to discuss the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Koole on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you to Mr Dittrich for congratulating my party. My question to Mr Dittrich concerns his comment on constitutional maturity, which I have also mentioned. He asks this in a question to the initiator and the government, but my question to Mr Dittrich is what he thinks of that. For is that a necessary criterion and is constitutional maturity "social acceptance" is it sometimes called "social acceptance" absolutely necessary? Is a Constitution just a document that codifies but not sometimes modifys it, in the terms of the state law scholar Koopmans? On the issue of, for example, sexual orientation, Mr Dittrich himself referred to the transgenders as "transgenders," it may well be that the inclusion of those provisions sends out a signal to bring about changes in the social acceptance that a majority in Parliament at least considers necessary. So my question is: should we not really abandon the idea that something constitutional should be mature, that it should actually be limited to codification? Should we not see the Constitution much more as an opportunity, albeit with heavier procedural requirements, for modification and for sending signals to society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u74	We see the Constitution as a living document. So indeed no exhaustive list. There are a lot of groups in society who feel discriminated against and you cannot immediately house everything under Article 1 of that text of the Constitution. So there must have been a certain social awareness, there must have been discussions about it and it must have gotten a certain maturity. This translates, among other things, through the interaction between non-governmental organisations and individual people, between the Second and First Chambers, the government, you name it. At some point something crystallizes and then of course you have to see if there is a majority, even a two-thirds majority, you mentioned that is also in your contribution to politics to see if that can actually be shaped in the text of Article 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u75	Do I understand correctly that Mr Dittrich agrees with me that there should indeed be discussion in society, but that it does not necessarily have to be the case that, for example, the term'sexual orientation' has to be supported by a majority in all aspects of the population, if you want to include it in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u76	No, it depends in a sense on a number of things. If you had to have a very large majority in the population for everything, it could be quite an obstacle for some minority groups, which are very discriminated against. Ultimately, parliamentary discussion in the Second and First Chambers takes place in two readings, because we are talking about constitutional changes. Then there must also be a two-thirds majority. If there is not, then we cannot change the text of the Constitution unless, of course, we are going to amend the Constitution in that respect. D66 is in favour of this, but there is again no two-thirds majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u77	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u78	I thank Mr Dittrich for his answer, and I understand from that that he accepts, in addition to the codifying element, the modifying element of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u79	I'm inclined to just say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u80	I think that's a good idea. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Burg on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, I have asked for very little speaking time, and that is the assumption that we still have, as far as I am concerned, a very large majority in this House is in agreement with the initiative proposal before us. I have no questions about the initiators from the VVD either. I would just like to congratulate the initiators on their initiative and thank them for their hard work. I am now deeply sorry that I have requested so little speaking time, because I see how suddenly a discussion is going to take place here. Perhaps Mrs Karimi will have to correct herself later that it is not only from Christian... That is worth a correction, because it is orthodox-protastians who have some difficulty with this. Just Dutch Christian parties like the Christian Union and the CDA are at the forefront of this compared to Christian brothers in the rest of the Netherlands. But it might just be that we also have a little discussion towards 50PLUS in the second term. So for me here briefly: compliments to you. I see the constitutional change that you are proposing as a statement; a statement because, as Mrs Karimi also argued, the Constitution as such is not a judge. So I also see it as a statement, especially as an assignment to the lady behind you: the minister representing the cabinet to further translate this, if necessary, into laws and regulations. And yes, Mr Dittrich is right: we may sometimes have been at the forefront of sexual orientation, and we often think wrongly that we are leading the way in the field of sexual orientation, but there is certainly a lot to be done there. Not only in legislation and regulation, but above all in its enforcement, because it has not become safer for everyone in the streets or in society lately. But especially when it comes to having a disability, we still have a long way to go, because we have never been ahead of many countries. In any event, the statement made by the initiators is an assignment to the cabinet, and indeed I agree with Mrs Karimi: there is nothing to be done about this missionaryly to ensure that we catch up on that point. So full support from the VVD, not only for the initiative proposal that is now before us, but also full support in what this means for all Cabinets that are going to come to ensure that the assignment given by the Second and First Chambers in first and in my opinion will also be given in second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u83	I was just offering my text to Mr Van der Burg, and he could have looked at it better afterwards, perhaps, because I have one more question for him. Surely it is not possible for Mr Van der Burg to say that it is a good thing that the Constitution is being used to make statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u84	You have a point there when it comes to my choice of words. In the Constitution, we make clear what we, as a society, consider to be extremely important rights for citizens and also obligations for the public authorities. That is what we do in the Constitution as a whole. This means that we have a Constitution which considers all constitutional articles to be equivalent, and I know that there are different views about this. Article 6 shall be equivalent to Article 1. I know that Mr Dittrich, for example, would like to see things differently, but that is the situation at the moment. So we make it clear how important we think things are. Perhaps that would have been a better choice of words than the word "statement." With this initiative proposal, these initiators, supported by the majority of the Second and expected First Chamber, make it clear that we consider it extremely important not to discriminate against sexual orientation and disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u85	Words matter. So it turns out. I am very pleased to hear that Mr Van der Burg indicates that all the articles in the Constitution are the same in that respect, but that we do not use them as a statement. For certain groups in society, certain articles may require or receive additional attention. I am very pleased that we agree that the Constitution is not being used to make statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u86	I won't let the word "statement" be deleted from my story, because I said it. You can't do that at all. The President can only do that if I have said something dishonorable. At least I won't use it anymore, because your explanation is a better one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u87	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. In the Gospel of John we read a special story. Jesus, tired of traveling, chose a special place to rest. He came out to the well of Jacob near the city of Sichar. At that moment, a woman comes running to draw water. Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink." The woman answers with a counter-question: you can't ask me that, because you are a Jew and I am a Samaritan woman? In the conversation that follows, Jesus emphasizes the spiritual meaning of water. He points out that anyone who will drink from that well gets thirsty again, but if you drink from the water that Jesus gives, you will never get thirsty again. In fact, it gives eternal life. Exegeten emphasized that it was special that Jesus entered into conversation with this woman. First of all, because of an ancient religious feud between the Jews and the Samaritans. That's why a Jew wasn't allowed to drink from a Samaritan's jug. Second, a Jewish man was not allowed to speak to a woman if her husband was not there. That went against the morals at the time. Finally, this woman had been married five times and now lived together. According to the scribes, that went against the law. That's why a rabbi wasn't allowed to hang out with her. There is much to be said about this part from a cultural, feminist and theological perspective. One of the interpretations is that this story is about breaking cultural and religious traditions and about the fundamental equality of people, an equivalence of which Jesus' life and preaching were permeated. Mr. Chairman. This is one of the stories told in our party, not because it concerns religious issues, but to underline the Christian principle of human equality. This equivalence is founded in the creation of man in the image of God. This equality was put on the agenda again and again by Jesus. The Christian Union attaches great importance to the Constitution. It considers the first article, which talks about the right to equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination, to be extremely important. It is precisely this article that gives a wonderful expression of Christian values such as human dignity, equality, charity and tolerance. These are values that are also shared with humanist traditions. The Christian Union Group would like to express its appreciation to the authors of this bill. They have made great efforts to make it plausible that supplementing Article 1 of the Constitution with the grounds "disability" and "sexual orientation" contribute to the prosperity of a society. The Group also appreciates the breadth and depth of the argument. It also commends the authors, the Minister and its officials for their careful response to our group's questions. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group has also asked for the view on the extension of the grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution, namely that this extension does not affect the classical interpretation of the vertical and horizontal functioning of this article. They confirmed that, too. I think this is also important in view of the increasing pluralism in our society. The Christian Union Group also thanks the Minister for answering questions on the legal effects of Article 1 of the Constitution. It is also important when I look at previous speakers. Why is it important to have explicit grounds? It is important to summarise some of the conclusions in this debate. The Minister is in line with the Commission's report on the legal effects of non-discrimination grounds and Article 1 Constitution. This committee opts for a three-pronged approach: first legal protection against the legislator, then social protection and finally legal protection by the judge. Mr. Chairman. The first two legal effects show why it is so important that non-discrimination grounds are made explicit. The first requires the government to quote from the aforementioned report 'to ensure the existence of legislation at a certain minimum'. The second effect of the law implies that inclusion of a ground in Article 1 "is not only a hint to the legislator, but also an indication to the public debate. The Committee sees a degree of legal protection in this regard." I now come to the third legal effect. This legal effect is also important, especially if it is considered that there should be no grounds in Article 1. The said committee concluded that the inclusion of a particular ground in Article 1 of the Constitution does not necessarily lead to a structural increase in the level of legal protection of the land in question. In its view, judges can attach some importance to this in individual cases. However, in the end, the court will be guided by the material gravity of the discriminatory treatment or expression rather than whether the ground is set out in Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group asks the Minister to reflect on the significance of adding the aforementioned grounds for government action. Because it is primarily about the vertical effect of Article 1. Can the Minister generally reflect on that? More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister about the government as an employer. I refer to an article in Trouw dated 11 November 2020. The headline of this article was: "The promise was: 125,000 additional jobs for people with disabilities. Seven years later, there are 12,000." The article opened with the words: "The Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment proudly reported that 53,000 people with disabilities have been helped to find a job in recent years. A recalculation now shows that this is only about 12,000 people." Can the Minister reflect on this? And what does the government, even if it is a missionary, do to keep this original promise? Mr President, I will conclude. History shows that every culture, every religious tradition and every philosophy of life struggles with the concept of equality. However, it will be no surprise to most of you that the Christian Union will vote in favour of this proposal. It was already in its 2017-2021 election programme and it is also in the new programme. It is also important to indicate why she does so. It is an expression of our party's fundamental belief that all people are equal and must have equal rights. It is also an expression of our party's fundamental vision of the relationship between democracy and the rule of law: the equality of people must be rooted in the rule of law and that equivalence is a normative given to politics and democracy, including for this Chamber. That is precisely because history shows that these are grounds related to exclusion, disadvantage and sometimes even persecution. Mr. Chairman. The story about Jesus and the Samaritan woman ends in a special way. Jesus is invited by the inhabitants and stays in Sichar for two whole days. He, a Jewish rabbi, eats and drinks with Samaritans. This end puzzled me. It may well be that this end is a call for all of us. A call to meet people who are disadvantaged or excluded in our society. To eat with them and drink with them. To be their guest. In other words, the additions "disability" and "sexual orientation" to Article 1 of the Constitution have an important cultural significance. The Constitution thus contributes to the prosperity of society. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group looks forward to the reaction of the proposers and the minister. Our group would also like to congratulate Mr Baljeu on his maiden speech and, of course, congratulate the Labour Party on this wonderful and long-term existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators and the original initiators for bringing this proposal for a constitutional change to the First Chamber. Unfortunately for them, this compliment is still there, because the PVV Group considers the proposal to be largely unnecessary symbol legislation. Then there is the legislation on symbolism, which makes an ill-worded article even worse. This proposal adds additional categories to a non-discrimination provision in Article 1 of the Constitution. In this way, the initiators argue that the meaning of the Constitution is increased as a document setting out our constitutional values, and that this also strengthens the role that the Constitution can play in education and in the public debate. It is remarkable that the initiators want to make Article 1 of the Constitution explicitly part of the social debate. When Pim Fortuyn did the same in 2002, he was denounced and demonized by the left-wing parties, with Thom de Graaf of D66 leading, with a disgusting comparison with Anne Frank. Those same left-wing parties, as pointed out just now by Mr Koole of the Labour Party, have either left Article 1 of the Constitution hanging on the wall in the present form in many council or provincial halls, or have it chiseled in stone as in the Constitutional bench outside the Binnenhof. It was stated that it was an unchanging and untouchable article which should certainly not be called into question. The initiators now state, on request, that Article 1 of the Constitution is not unchangeable. Then why are you suddenly having this social debate? Why does it have to be fed now? What makes it different from 2002? I'd like a response. Why can a whole litany suddenly be added to categories, according to the initiators a social desire that has sounded longer and more intense? Is there room for other social desires, as long as they sound strong enough? Or is it not only taboo for the initiators when they like the messenger? In any event, the amendment now proposed does not achieve the objective of the increased significance of the Constitution as a document setting out our constitutional values, quite the contrary. By adding categories on the basis of social developments, these constitutional values are made fluid, while the origin and substance of this constitutional article are very clear: the principle of equality as one of the humanitarian ideals of Enlightenment. This can also be clearly seen in the older versions of the Constitution. From 1815 to 1983, our Constitution spoke of equal rights to the protection of persons and property. That's what it's all about in the core. As a person you are basically equal to others, but not all possible personal characteristics or qualifications need to be listed in a constitutional article. For this purpose, further legislation, in this case the General Law on Equal Treatment and Article 137c Code of Criminal Law, is envisaged. If the constitutional values of the principle of equality are to be increased, this must be emphasised at the very heart of the matter and not by naming all kinds of categories. As far as PVV is concerned, it would be better to limit this article to the definition "every Dutch person is equal before the law." Mr. Chairman. The fact that the current Article 1 is the first article of the Constitution does not entail any particular status. It is a firm principle that there is no order of precedence between the constitutional articles. This has already been mentioned as such by the then cabinet through the Minister of the Interior, De Gaay Fortman, and further confirmed on request by the initiators of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u91	"Every Dutchman is equal before the law." Does that mean, as far as you're concerned, that Minister Ollongren should have exactly the same rights as you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u92	In principle, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u93	Okay. So her dual nationality is no reason for the PVV to treat her differently from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u94	That's another discussion. The fact that a person of a particular origin or of a dual nationality has an equal position in Dutch society is not at issue. The only question is whether someone should be able to have a dual nationality. That's something you can do by law. If such a law is passed, it applies to everyone and is equal to everyone. That is a normal legislative starting point. Otherwise, you could never change a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u95	What Mr Van Hattem says puzzles me a bit. I checked the PVV's election program. It says that the PVV would very much like to include in the Constitution: the Jewish-Christian and humanist roots of our society. Philosophers all agree that Jews, Christians and humanists, especially critical humanists, have similar values. Surely you should be very pleased that part of your wish, namely that the Jewish Christian and humanist tradition should be incorporated into the Constitution, is already being fulfilled and even richer? I therefore do not understand your problems with the additions to Article 1 of the Constitution. I do not understand at all your problems with the fact that there are grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u96	The point is that it does not satisfy any wishes. This only adds a number of categories which weakens the strength of such an article. You stretch it so far that such an article on the principle of equality loses its strength. Adding all kinds of aspects makes it a more complex discussion. So this is absolutely not a desirable addition and not a strengthening of the ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u97	In the end, my question has not been answered. The PVV programme explicitly states that the Jewish-Christian and humanist tradition must be incorporated into the Constitution. Now part of the values of that tradition is included in Article 1 and you say: I do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u98	Now Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union is twisting things a bit. He says that some of those values are included in it. Mr Verkerk says it himself: it is only a part of those values that would be incorporated according to Mr Verkerk's interpretation. No, this is what this is about. The Jewish Christian and humanist tradition underpins our core values and standards. If you include it, you have a clear starting point. Then you can also counter horrors such as Sharia, which is clearly in contrast to our Constitution and our values. But you don't do that by identifying a few additional categories that are already protected in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u99	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u100	This is a possible interpretation. An even more likely interpretation is that I don't know how to rhyme your party's program with Jewish-Christian and humanist values.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u101	I have been unable to reconcile the principles of the Christian Union with Christian values for a long time. It's all over the place. It's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u102	What the PVV wants to add to the Constitution is to the PVV, which is its right. But basic to Mr Van Hattem's criticism of the current bill is that the PVV believes that Article 1 should disappear. That's consistent. Wilders said that in 2006 and Van Hattem repeats that in 2021. That's true, isn't it? I can still see that? Consistent: the PVV says "Article 1 away with it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u103	As I said, we choose to replace the current definition, which is actually rather weak and incoherent and which at the time came into the Constitution at the initiative of the Stalinist Marcus Bakker of the CPN, with 'every Dutchman is equal before the law'. That is simply a clear principle and everyone knows where they stand. It also does justice to where the principle of equality comes from. You originally had the nobility that stood above the people and the common peasant population that had nothing to say. There was a structural inequality between people and it is lifted when you say: everyone is equal before the law in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u104	Does Mr Van Hattem now say: yes, Mr Kox, you are right, the PVV is in favour of deleting Article 1?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u105	It is no secret that we simply do not like the current Article 1. That can indeed be deleted and replaced by something better. That's what I reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u106	But that means that Article 1, which says that everyone is equal before the law and that you will not discriminate, on whatever basis, for the PVV from the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u107	I say clearly that the current definition must come out and be replaced by something better, namely: every Dutchman is equal before the law. That's a clear, sharp definition. Now it is a far too comprehensive and unclear story that blows so far that there is actually no level to be raised. That better be replaced, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u108	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u109	Everyone is equal before the law. That is what has been in our Constitution since 1815 and it still states: the first sentence of Article 1...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u110	Yes, but it was initiated by the Stalinist in 1983...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u111	I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u112	In 1983, the prohibition of discrimination was added or extended, one might say. It happened not on the proposal of our former colleague on the other side Marcus Bakker, but on the proposal of the Van Schaik, Cals/Donner and Biesheuvel committees and of the Biesheuvel cabinet and the Den Uyl cabinet. The only addition of Marcus Bakker was "or on any ground." He took over that addition from the European Convention on Human Rights. The construction that Mr Van Hattem has devised to blame Marcus Bakker for Article 1 in the Constitution is even a little too much honor for Marcus Bakker. Question remains: does the PVV think that Article 1 of the Constitution should disappear? Van Hattem is of course a good discussion. He's got something going on, but his boss Wilders has always been clear about it: Article 1 of the Constitution has to go. The question to the PVV is: if we delete that article, then what are we left with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u113	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u114	I have just indicated what should be said: "Every Dutchman is equal before the law." That is just a very clear starting point. So indeed delete the current article of the Constitution and replace it with a better definition. That's all I can make of it for Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u115	I heard Mr Van Hattem say that every Dutchman is equal before the law. According to the PVV, that would be a better constitutional article. In your contribution, not only today but also at other times, you always warn against the so-called Islamic danger. You always take Muslims out and then you're gonna tell stories about them all. Isn't that contrary to what you're saying now? Because if everyone is equal before the law, why are you taking out the Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u116	Here we go. Mr Dittrich has already mentioned 'the so-called Islamic danger'. That danger is not "so-called," it is a danger. Let's take the Muslim brothers who sit in a party like GroenLinks' lap. They just proclaim the Sharia loud and clear, and they just literally say, "The question is not whether we should kill homosexuals, just how we should kill homosexuals. Should we throw them off an apartment building or should we set them on fire alive?" Such texts are openly announced by the Muslim brothers on Egyptian television. Their followers here in the Netherlands follow them blindly and literally follow the lyrics of the Sharia and the Koran. That is the danger of Islam. We must, above all, continue to point that out, and we must face it. That should not be dismissed as the so-called danger of Islam. That is a very concrete danger. We simply have to resist that. As PVV, we are committed to doing and continuing to do so and to protecting our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u117	So that is not an answer to my question. My question was: if you have the wording "Every Dutchman is the same according to the law," why do you take Muslims out as a group? Then you bring up the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. That is indeed a danger, but that is not the issue here. We are talking about Dutch society. 99.9% of Muslims are just good citizens, they belong to our country. But you're gonna pick them out and you're gonna keep a whole story around it that's in conflict with your own stance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u118	I'm talking about Islamic ideology, Islam. That's the point. It evokes such horrible evils. We just have to keep pointing that out. Then it's not about picking out a particular group. No, then it's about picking out that terrible ideology, tackling it, warning it and fighting it. We would have preferred to find D66 by our side, because there is a great need to protect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you. I suggest we return to the bill. Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u120	I hear Mr Van Hattem say that, as far as he is concerned, Article 1 could be amended, with the principle of equality still in place and that he says that the prohibition of discrimination can be removed as far as he is concerned. I find that very striking, partly in view of the fact that your party leader is still a suspect in a trial. Are you going to change the rules for your party leader during the game?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u121	I am not going to talk about a trial and that sort of thing, but if you had been careful, my colleague Martin Bosma has also made this point in the House of Representatives. He also literally said: we are in favour of changing this to "Every Dutchman is equal before the law." That is the starting point that we are promoting both in the Lower House and here in the Upper House. That is just a very clear starting point and that has nothing to do with a process or anything to do with it and I am not going to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you. I propose that Mr Van Hattem continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, the current Article 1 of the Constitution does not bring with it any particular status. This is also apparent from the parliamentary Acts of 1976/77. At that time, the current Article 1 became, more or less coincidentally, the first article of the Constitution by means of a new classification of the Constitution, in which the first three articles then fell or were moved. The principle of equality was until then Article 4 and therefore moved on to Article 1. Thus, the article does not have a particular rank or status in the Constitution and will not be given the status with this initiative proposal. Nor does this legislative proposal lead to a structurally higher level of legal protection. What good is it now for the intended categories of persons in practice? In writing, I asked the initiators to give a concrete indication of the effective consequences of this proposal for the intrinsically discriminatory hate ideology of Islam and the Koran, which discriminates in particular against persons with homosexual orientation. There was no direct answer to that, and that is precisely the big problem. Islam here is the big elephant in the room. Islam does not care at all about our Constitution and applies Sharia as a parallel legal system. The tradition of their prophet Muhammad is, after all, undisputed and unchangingly laid down in these Sharia rules and other scriptures. Western fundamental rights and human rights are not accepted in the world of Islam, but are based in particular on the Cairo Declaration of the OIC and the Universal Islamic Declaration of Human Rights. Both statements emphasise that the human rights mentioned are entirely subordinate to Sharia. The Sharia itself explicitly states that homosexual acts are nothing less than the death penalty. In practice, Islamic rogue states such as Iran also take action. But also in the Netherlands the Sharia leather is seized in Islamicized districts. A hate imam like Fawaz Jneid doesn't spit a drop less Islamic gall with such an extra category in the Constitution. In my own congregation's-Hertogenbosch a transgender was harassed out of the neighborhood by Islamic street scum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u124	Mr Van Hattem does not see anything in the Islamic Declaration of Human Rights, I understand. I don't see much of that either. So I understand that Mr Van Hattem is pleased that we have the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u125	That's another story. That's not what I'm talking about. Just because one thing's bad doesn't mean the other is right. I only note that the Islamic countries have drawn up their own Islamic human rights statement, which is totally subordinate to Sharia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u126	Mr Van Hattem and the other colleagues have a great deal of knowledge of what is happening elsewhere in the world. My question was, if Mr Van Hattem were to vote in favour of a human rights statement drawn up by an Islamic organisation, is he in favour of the ECHR? For Article 14 of the ECHR contains a non-discrimination clause which is virtually comparable to ours, including any provision on any ground. Is it so difficult to answer: 'Yes, I am glad we have the European Convention on Human Rights'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u127	The European Convention on Human Rights is a completely different debate. That also does not cheer us up on many points. We do not need such a Eurofelt institution and such a Eurofelt treaty in order to honour certain human rights, because human rights are much older than that European Declaration of Human Rights. They have been developed in the period of the Enlightenment, since the eighteenth century. The ECHR is not at all necessary to respect that, so the ECHR is mainly an instrument where left-wing brothers like the SP love to use it politically. As far as the PVV is concerned, the ECHR is not a necessary starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mr. Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u129	The ECHR has been in existence for a long time, longer than my party which will soon be 50 years old. But the ECHR was not drawn up by left-wing boys. It has been drafted in response to the horrors of national socialism and is a translation into mandatory law of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our colleague Van Hattem uses a lot of words, but what he says is: 'Delete Article 1 of the Constitution, which we consider to be a party'. You can, you can find everything in this country, and: "Delete the ECHR as well, because that's something that's nice for left-wing guys like Tiny Kox but we don't like it." Just give us that clarity, and people will know where we stand with the PVV: if the PVV becomes the boss in this country, we will delete Article 1 of the Constitution, we will remove the non-discrimination ban and put an end to the ECHR. Just say that clearly. Wilders always wants to be so clear, but you make this a very big vague story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u131	Mr Kox can blame me a great deal, but not that I am not clear. I have just been very clear on how we feel about Article 1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u132	What about the ECHR?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u133	You can't see that ECHR on its own. There's still a whole club attached to that. There is also a European Court of Human Rights which deals with our case law, which lays down all kinds of rules that we really do not want to go along with. We need to get rid of that in the first place. We must get rid of this ECHR, that European Court of Human Rights. We have to go over our own laws and rules. The Netherlands must leave the European Union anyway, and we must also get rid of that ECHR, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u134	I wanted to go back to Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr Van Hattem has just said that he wants to abolish it, but he also says that he thinks that Article 1 should read: all Dutch people have equal rights, are right before the law. If Mr Van Hattem says that all Dutch people are equal before the law, my first question to him is whether that also applies to Islamic Dutch people. My second question relates to his comment on symbolic politics and on the slogans put up by the left-wing parties in buildings, namely Article 1 as a slogan in buildings. That is too much honour for the left-wing parties, I think, because that was widely worn and not just by left-wing parties. But what's against the fact that you're using something as an important symbol? For example, the idea of equality before the law is already of value in itself, but it also has symbolic value. What's against wearing that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u135	It's actually very simple. As I have just pointed out, the articles of the Constitution do not have a ranking. By giving Article 1 of the Constitution a higher status, for example by hanging it in a council hall, in a county hall, or by chiseling it in a Constitutional Bank, you give it a higher status than another constitutional article that is not supposed to be the case both for the legislator and in practice. We need to get rid of that. So Mr Koole is already coming up with the abolition of Article 1 of the Constitution. No, Article 1 is merely a numbering of certain fundamental rights and these fundamental rights are therefore on an equal footing. As far as I am concerned, the right to freedom of expression is equally valuable. And so it is regulated in the Constitution. You just have to assume that and not give Article 1 a higher status by, for example, hanging it on the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u136	I hear Mr Van Hattem saying that freedom of expression is also an important fundamental right. The PvdA agrees. Would Mr Van Hattem find it fantastic if freedom of expression were to stand as a slogan in buildings, as is the case with Article 1? They're equal, but what would be against that? I am asking this question because it concerns the symbolic effect of articles in the Constitution. It's not just Article 1. By the way, that's number one for a reason. It is not a coincidence because in the 1970s, three of them were pushed away and the fourth of them came upstairs. It was deliberately chosen to put this article first, not because it is more, but because that is the story that we as the Netherlands want to tell: in the Netherlands everyone is the same before the law. My question still stands, and I repeat it to Mr Van Hattem: is it not the same for Islamic Dutch people? They are, like any other Dutchman, equal before the law, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u137	Right before the law, yeah. But to come back to the articles of the Constitution, it is true that it was in the parliamentary Acts of 1976/1977 that this article became Article 1 only on the basis of the shifting of certain articles. That was confirmed by De Gaay Fortman at the time. As a result of this discussion that you are having with the question whether I would like to hang Article 7 or anything else on the wall of a room, my answer is: no, I am not in favour of that. I recently had the opportunity to have this discussion in the city council of Den Bosch. It was also proposed that Article 1 of the Constitution should be placed on the wall when the council room was renovated. This was done on the initiative of the left-wing parties. At that time I also indicated: these laws are equal; there is no order in them. If an article of the Constitution is already on the wall in a council room, it is Article 125 of the Constitution: the Council is the highest body. You have to hang that in the eyes of the college, so that it can always take that into account. Another article does not belong on the wall of a council hall or anywhere else. In doing so, you are wronging other articles of the Constitution. On the contrary, it is important to ensure that all fundamental rights are implemented in an equal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u138	Mr. Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u139	I do not think I will agree with Mr Van Hattem because, apart from substance, constitutions have symbolic value, just as the Dutch flag has symbolic value. On the basis of among other things the PVV was placed in the Lower House because of its symbolic value. Symbols are important. In addition to the content, Constitutions have that symbolic value, and it is a pity that Mr Van Hattem does not see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u140	The Dutch flag has absolutely symbolic value and is therefore indeed placed in the Chamber of the House of Representatives. But, for example, an EU flag here, they also have it painted on the chimney, which also has symbolic value. That's why I don't think it should belong here either. If anything belongs here, it's our national symbols that need to be higher. But the Dutch flag is not part of fundamental rights in our Constitution. In fact, we say that the Dutch flag is at a very different level from those fundamental rights. These fundamental rights are secondary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u141	I will now ask you to conclude your speech before we allow any further interruptions. Otherwise, we're running too late. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about my own congregation's-Hertogenbosch. There a transgender was harassed out of the neighborhood by Islamic street thugs. Fireworks and dog shit through the mailbox, swearing, assaults and threats: all because of a sexual orientation prohibited by Islam. Instead of tackling this sharia harness, this person was forced to move to a non-Islamic neighborhood for his own safety. So can the initiators indicate how such cases are structurally better protected with this article? Or wouldn't it even be time to de-islamize? Mr. Chairman. Then the category of people with disabilities. While status holders are given priority social housing, which is strictly monitored by the government through the Housing Act, if necessary, homes can be advanced to regulate housing. People with disabilities often fish behind the net. For them not priority advanced homes, but often a long waiting list. Last December, in BN DeStem, the sad cry of the daughter of 71-year-old Henk from Gilze-Rijen was still to be read. This man has for many years provided care for his wife, but has now become bedridden by blood cancer and a spinal cord injury himself. He couldn't go up the stairs anymore to take a shower upstairs in his bathroom. Although he had received an urgent removal statement, for customized homes the housing foundation was a waiting list of a year and the municipality refused to make any adjustments to his current home. As a result, this disabled man had not been normal in the shower for months. The authorities told them bluntly: put him outside under the garden hose. A literal quote. Mr President, it is scandalous! After this distress call in the newspaper there appeared to be other similar cases in this municipality. A lady hasn't showered in six months and another lady hasn't even showered in a year and a half. Only after this newspaper article has the municipality made temporary adjustments. But it continues to discriminate against people with disabilities, who come on a long waiting list for a home compared to status holders who immediately receive a home from the government. Can the initiators reflect how their proposal can stop this discrimination? Does this mean an end to the discriminatory emergency allocation to status holders? Mr President, in conclusion. The Constitution should be sober and clear. Similarly, the Council of State suggests in its opinion. By adding additional categories, which are mainly the product of political arbitrariness, we do not serve our citizens and the rule of law. Instead of showing off symbol legislation, we can do better to deal effectively with the regrettable situations that happen to people with disabilities. So also more money and attention to care and countering the greatest danger for the equality of sexual orientation: Islamization. That's when you really do society a favor. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u143	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group. Mr Verkerk has a short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u144	Mr Van Hattem spoke very briefly about Mr Koole's question, but I would like to make it even clearer. You propose in Article 1 that all Dutch people be treated equally, or a wording in that way. Well, that's a containment compared to the past. Let's look behind me here. That's about residents and foreigners. But suppose I think along with you and we talk about Moroccan Dutch or Turkish Dutch, with whatever religious background they have. Do you think that they are all equal in the Netherlands and should simply be given equal rights on the basis of your wording?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u145	Mr. Van Hattem, please give me a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u146	I can be very brief about that: every Dutchman is equal before the law and if they are Dutch, they are equal before the law. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u148	Okay. But that also means that if the PVV felt that there should be fewer people living in the Netherlands, that is true for all Dutch people, regardless of their background. So if the PVV is going to promote emigration, does that apply to all Dutch, regardless of their religion or their original origin?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u149	When it comes to rules on migration, immigration, emigration or remigration, this is regulated by separate laws, and on the basis of these laws everyone is treated equally in accordance with that legislation. So the starting point remains that everyone is equal before the law, but that law can of course be regulated in certain ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u150	Thank you. Mr. Verkerk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u151	I can only conclude that you are opposed to your own party programme, and I am very pleased with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union has long gone against its own Christian principles by allowing our society to Islamicize, by denying Christianity and by actually abandoning your Christian constituents, your Christian supporters, by going along with it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u153	Thank you. I call Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. Show me your bookcase, and I'll tell you who you are. Show me your Constitution, and I will tell you which country you live in. After today's vote on this initiative proposal on 23 February, we can be even more proud of the country in which we are allowed to live. A country in which no distinction should be made between people, where everyone should be treated equally and where there should be no discrimination, not according to belief in life, not to political orientation and not to race or gender. In two weeks' time, it is also explicitly stated that there should no longer be discrimination towards disability or sexual orientation. The CDA Group will wholeheartedly support this initiative to include these last two non-discrimination grounds explicitly in Article 1 of our Constitution. We agree with the initiators that the need to include these grounds is sufficiently established and that the discussion on whether or not to include them has been sufficiently crystallised. There is great public support. This was politically confirmed by a very large majority of the House of Representatives in the middle of last year. The proposal is 'constitutionally ripe', to speak with the Minister's words, ready to be incorporated into our constitution. Reports from other Member States of the European Union, such as Poland and Hungary, show that the spirits are not yet ready. This says something about the state of the rule of law there. So there is work to be done there for the European Commission, but also for us, to change our minds about the political leaders in these countries, with whom we are so connected and with whom we work so intensively. We have talked about this before in this House, in the State of the Rule of Law. We will also have to talk about it more often in the future, unfortunately. Because the crumbling of the rule of law in a country such as Poland, the violations of the rule of law in Hungary or the non-compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights in several Member States of the European Union affect us at least indirectly and not rarely directly. For the time being, we must make it clear that the text of the Constitution in these countries tells us which country Poland or Hungary wants to be, at least under the current regime. Let us hope that the next generation of political leaders in these countries can show us a different constitutional text, not only for us Dutch but above all for all for all Poles and Hungarians. Mr. Chairman. Explicit reference in Article 1 of the Constitution ensures that citizens concerned are better protected against infringements or potential infringements by the legislator. They will also feel better protected in society. Finally, legal protection by the courts will improve on balance. Interest groups have been calling for this for some time, and experts and authoritative institutions have also pointed this out before. The Social and Cultural Planning Office speaks of "the desirability of constitutional recognition." Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group thanks the initiators for their efforts and perhaps even more for their perseverance. After all, the original proposal of the then Lower House members Van der Ham, Azough and Timmer dates back to 2010. Talent, if combined with perseverance, leads to success. But you and I know that the teachings are often stronger than life and that written rules require follow-up. Even constitutional rules do not always prove to be a blessing. We know that protection against discrimination on paper often seems to be well regulated, but there are strong indications that discrimination is still a major and urgent problem. That is why this Chamber this afternoon, on a proposal from the Ganzevoort Committee, is going to decide to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into 'the causes of and possible solutions to the identified gap between the paper law and the law in practice when it comes to discrimination'. This study therefore focuses on the role that parliament can play in the legislative process and in the control of government policy. Mr. Chairman. It's gonna take more than that. We still see too often that people from the Ihbti community can't or dare to go on the streets safely, simply because of who they are. Reports of violence on the streets against Ihbti'ers have not been reduced in recent years, as has been noted. That is unacceptable and needs to be tackled hard. I would therefore like to ask this Minister whether she agrees with the CDA Group that violence against Ihbti is to be punished more severely and that there may be reason to instruct a national coordinator as a kind of outboard engine for a year to identify and propose how to significantly reduce the violence against, and the threat and discrimination against, Ihbti's people and how to reduce this evil that has been on the move for too long. We are thinking not only of repressive measures, but also of prevention through, for example, public campaigns and education information. Because, Mr President, only then can we proudly show others the text of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u155	I would like to put a question to Mr Rombouts about the coordinator that the CDA is proposing just before the elections. I saw that when proposals were made in the House of Representatives to set up anti-discrimination detectives to look specifically at this type of discrimination, the CDA voted against it. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u156	I wouldn't know, but I'll tell you what my group thinks. I have, of course, also taken note of what our new foreman said about this last week in the COC list leader debate. At a point where we don't really disagree, you and I, I'd like to ask you a counter question, Mr. Dittrich. Why would you vote against this idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u157	The idea of a coordinator does not appeal to me because he has to investigate all kinds of things that have already been investigated. Civil society organisations have been asking for extra activities for years, for example Pink in Blue police not only to organise on a voluntary basis but to make money more robust: to take money seriously within the police organisation. These are all kinds of proposals that have already been made in the Lower House, but which the CDA was against. A coordinator who is going to investigate something again, I find a bit of the horse behind the cart. We have to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u158	May I ask Mr Dittrich to stand still for a moment? I didn't put the word "research" in my mouth. I've been talking about a national coordinator to maybe get along with my list leader in word usage. But I added it myself: like some kind of outboard engine. I do not care what his name is, as long as we take the initiative together to tackle the enforcement of the rules that we are setting here today with more force and more speed, hence the outboard engine. We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u159	Finally, Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u160	Let us put it this way: what we agree on is that the laws and regulations we have must be properly applied to protect those who are discriminated against. But it's gonna take a lot more than that. I hope, for example, that we find the CDA willing to allow school acceptance in education. Young lhbti'ers are refused by schools because their parents don't sign such a statement. I hope that the CDA also says: we should not want that, we must get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u161	Thank you. Finally, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u162	I was ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u163	If there's any more interruptions, we'll do it after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u164	I will respond to Mr Dittrich. I think we're much more in agreement than we're trying to express. At least I have said three times now that I think we are quite in agreement. We have also worked together in the Temporary Committee on Anti-Discrimination and in particular on the mission which is finally agreed here this afternoon: the difference between legislation and practice. As a member of this committee, I have insisted in particular on this. We can see how we make legislation and constitutional rules even better and more effective, but it depends above all on how people react, and that is what our group is focusing on when it advocates more enforcement capacity. An outboard engine can then help to achieve this in education, in the police and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u166	I asked you about school acceptance. You're not answering that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u167	Just a point of order, Mr. Rombouts. How much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u168	Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u169	You were at the end of your input? Then there is the answer to Mr Dittrich's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u170	I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u171	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u172	It would have been almost a point of order, because I understood that you said further interruptions after the break. But then we come so far from what has just been argued by Mr Dittrich...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u173	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u174	However, I would like to mention that the statements he indicated do not exist after the debate in the House of Representatives. So there are no explanations that would affect the acceptance obligation in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u175	I believe that Mr Schalk has given an answer to Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-09-eerstekamer-3.u176	Then I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
