ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue the debate on the developments surrounding the coronavirus. We have come to the answer from the cabinet. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer the questions about my role in the vaccination process. I would also like to address the questions about the measures announced; the state of play last Tuesday. Within that block, I will go into education in detail. Then there are a few remaining questions about communication, the salaries in care and a few more questions about the economic package. Then Hugo the Young, the thought, will take care of all the other questions. Mr. Chairman. Let me say in advance that everyone, both in the Chamber and in the Cabinet, realizes what an enormous task we all have as a society at the moment. It was also recalled by many that you can see that the decline of the classical virus is actually moving in the right direction, but that you can also see that with the English variant, which is already so dominant in the mix with all the extra risks of spread and infectiousness, we are facing a new chapter again. Fortunately that is in combination with the arrival of the vaccine, so it's not all hopeless, but it's another difficult phase we're in. And that at a time when society is being hit economically hard, but certainly also socially and mentally. That is also what Hugo de Jonge and I will try to address in our answers to the various questions. But no matter how well we speak about it and how much we try to manage it with all kinds of plans, it is not entirely acceptable. It has a huge impact on society. I would like to mention this in advance, before I come to the various questions. Then, unless Mr Wilders wants to ask a question first, Mr President, that is for you to say something about vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	I'd do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	Shall I continue? Yes. Again, Hugo de Jonge, the VWS Minister, will address the substantive questions in more detail, but still very clearly: we work as one team. Actually with his fours, also with Tamara van Ark and Ferd Grapperhaus, and often with the support of the others needed, such as the economic trio Koolmies, Van 't Wout and Hoekstra, but also of course also the vice-premiers Kajsa Ollongren and Carola Schouten, and Arie Slob in education. That's how we steer each other, really as one team, this crisis. We make all the decisions with the entire cabinet. That doesn't mean I run all the files. It doesn't mean I'm taking over all the wallets. That wouldn't help. But on all these issues, whether it be the economic package, the social impact or all the issues relating to epidemiology, I try to promote myself that we have the right decision-making, that questions are being asked, that subjects are being discussed, that everyone is getting to work and that things that get stuck are going on again. That also means that I am accountable to the Chamber. And if things don't go well... Technically, I don't think I'm the boss of the Dutch state system, but politically, of course, I am. It feels the same way to me. That's even more important. So for things that don't go well, you should definitely be with me, and in the first place with me. Then let's look specifically at vaccination, because there was a question about that. The VWS Minister is, of course, at the helm here. It is his portfolio, but it is also so decisive for how we get through this crisis that he is, of course, never alone. All the considerations about strategy and logistics we make together, as a team, with me as chairman. All questions are asked and everything is beaten and tested throughout the cabinet. Of course, it is my job to ensure that the ministers then have the space to implement that policy, to do the right thing and to ensure that all those hard-working professionals, from the GGD to hospitals, are properly supported in practice. And my job is also to convey that support here, in this Chamber, in a political sense. That's about how I see my job. In that context, perhaps one specific question on vaccination, namely whether I have already called Putin. If it helps, I'll call everyone, including Vladimir Putin. We can talk German with each other, so that's fine. However, I do not believe that a call from me to Vladimir Putin on the vaccine will contribute much, because the Sputnik vaccine requires market access from the European Medicines Agency. It is up to the companies concerned to do or not to do so. It also seems sensible to me to trust in the whole process not to deviate from that normal path. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	I have Mr Wilders and Mrs Ploumen. You were before, Mrs Ploumen? Okay. How do we fix this? Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr Wilders knows the rules of the game. The vaccination strategy's not going well. The minister is working very hard, but looks overburdened, so my question is to the leader of that team: shouldn't you have done more in the last few weeks? That's one. And two. What are you going to do yourself in the coming period to solve all these problems? Because it is clear: if the cabinet continues to do what it has always done, we will not come out with the vaccination strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	I don't entirely agree with that. But let me start by saying where it didn't go well. Then you should be with me, too. We've talked about that before. That was that mistake last year to bet on one vaccine, while it became the other vaccine. We all know history now. As a result, we only started vaccination in January, while the rest of Europe started at the end of December, partly symbolically, partly real. A lot of countries actually started. As a result, we are still lagging behind, which is now somewhat more limited. We're getting into it. But further, if you look at the whole logistics process, I am convinced that this is now well on track. Anyone who can help with this will also help, including from all kinds of professional quarters, from the business community and logistics experts. That's one. The second is the strategy. Which group should you impfen, say the Germans, first vaccinate? In addition, we have the compass of the Health Council, which advises us. The order of the different groups is similar throughout Europe. The third is the availability of vaccines. This process is primarily taking place jointly in Europe. Where I can contribute to this through my contacts with the European Commission, I will do so. So I'm everywhere in the picture and help. As far as the strategy is concerned, it is stable and, if adjustments are needed, we will do so. If a particular vaccine works better for a particular target group than anywhere else, you should be prepared to respond to it. That fits the strategy. With regard to the availability of vaccines, the European issue, I am, of course, also available to help where I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	The reality is really different from the picture that the Prime Minister is now sketching, looking at how the vaccinations are going at the moment. Old people are in the rain for 40 minutes, there is no rope to tie to who has to first, from a couple the man is vaccinated in the nursing home and the woman has to drive 40 minutes from Purmerend to the Amsterdam RAI. These are all symptoms of an implementation strategy that is not right. It's not going well. So once again, what will the Prime Minister himself do to restore this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	We may not be entirely in agreement. That's what's next. Yeah, you'd like to see a lot more vaccines available. If there were a lot more vaccines available, the surgery would also be easier, crazy enough. In itself, logistics is designed to be able to prick very large numbers now, both through GGD and general practitioners. The problem is, of course, that these streams are so small at the moment and that at the same time we are at a complicated stage, where you look at both the elderly in nursing homes and the elderly who still live at home, and the people who care for them. It is small streams and many different groups, which you want to operate as well as possible. But that is no different in other European countries. I have a lot of contact with my European colleagues: everyone follows the strategy of starting with the oldest people, with the people with vulnerable health, including in the nursing homes, and with the people who take care of them. The fact that the rest of Europe is lagging behind has really to do with the late start. We're running it in. If you look at all the helpers who are there to support us in the advisory and execution, then I really think that that operation looks good now. In practice, too, things will still go wrong. You'll also have fixed moments in the next few weeks when someone is invited to a shot that isn't there, or that there's something on it. In the course of such a complex vaccination operation, that cannot be ruled out. Everything is being done to prevent that. Yesterday's footage of the elderly in the rain is the last thing you want. There too, there is an awful lot of work being done to make that right. But 100% of them prevent...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	...with these large numbers, is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	The Prime Minister acknowledges that a mistake has been made in ordering and supplying the type of vaccines. He also acknowledges that vaccination started too late. My question is very simple: what is the Prime Minister going to do to ensure that all those vaccines that are now in the freezer are rushed into the upper arms, so that we are not standing here again in a few weeks' time, that he has to acknowledge that something has gone wrong and that he has not interfered with it enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	Well, ask Mrs Ploumen for support for two exciting things, because we have decided on two exciting interventions in stock management. At the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine we have said that the Health Council is also behind this, but it is different from the package leaflet "Pfizer" that we do six weeks between the first and the second vaccine. This is also not unusual in most European countries and, again, the Health Council supports it. But it's exciting. Of course, even more exciting is what we do with the shots on the shelf. At first we wanted to be very careful and put all the second stings on the shelf, but that is a lot of stings on the shelf. Now we have 50% on the shelf. In the meantime we have decided not to do that either, but to rely on the five-day rule. After the vaccine has been cleared and allowed to be released, which takes a few days, you try to put it all away in five days. We think it's possible. All logistics consultants also say that this is justified, also because we are beginning to see a certain stability in the delivery of that type of vaccine, but it is exciting. When it comes to first shots that you have to resist because too little is being delivered, it is still possible to do so, but at some point it may also be a risk that the second shot will come later. We don't think it's gonna happen, but we're gonna do whatever's asked from the profession, which is to pry away what you have. This is actually very close to the Danish strategy, which is also at the top of the vaccination order, but not as extreme as Denmark. In stock management, of course, we have taken steps towards a slightly more risky approach that we still consider responsible, because otherwise we would not do it. But that also requires support from the Chamber; that does not need to be explicitly with motions. To be honest, I felt that support in the first term of the Chamber, but I would have liked to have said it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr Wilders and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	I will not repeat all the points of my esteemed colleague from Limburg, although from the wrong group but from the good province, but she is of course right that it has been a huge mess with vaccination policy, not only in the beginning but also so far. We have now put in 400 000 to 450 000 vaccines, which is about the same number that the United Kingdom does in one and a half days. That is now and not only in December, so something is going to go wrong when we are dangling at the level of Bulgaria. My question to the Prime Minister too is: what are you doing more? You really can do so much more. I may have some suggestions in a moment, but I would like to invite the Prime Minister again: can he not do now to ensure that we not only get more vaccines but that we can also voluntarily inoculate more people who want them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	It is good that Mr Wilders is pulling this apart. There is a question of how many vaccines are delivered and, when they are delivered, how to ensure that they are used as soon as possible. On that second point, I believe that we are really on the verge of what is justified. I think this can still be done what we are doing with this five-day approach, but I would not want to go any further. I wouldn't want to do that, because then you're really at risk, not only with regard to the cancellation of first vaccinations, but also with regard to the risk that the second vaccine can't be put because it's simply not there after those six weeks. So I think you should be careful with that. But I think we can do this. We really think this is still justified. In addition, Mr Wilders is quite right in saying that there is also a European issue. Of course, that's not something I can do on my own, not even Hugo de Jonge. That is what we really need to do with our colleagues. Achieving an acceleration in the European area would, of course, help greatly. I would also welcome support for production in Europe and the Netherlands from the Dutch business community; as the Netherlands, we have quite extensive production facilities where, of course, we produce not only for the Netherlands but for the whole world and therefore for Europe as well. We are also very busy working with industry to see what is possible there. I'm totally available for that too. Mr De Jonge will discuss it in a moment and come up with our thoughts on how to do it and on the structure, together with the guidance from Hugo de Jonge and myself to bring further acceleration into it. So Mr Wilders is right and he can count on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	Beautiful, but I also meant other things, of course. Let me give you a few examples. We could also use the Mexican flu for distribution, although this is not entirely comparable because there were enough vaccines available at the time, and we could use more of the experience of professionals, but also of the military, of the army.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	More than now. So my question is, does that happen? We'd be much more mobile teams along a nursing home, passing through the elderly or passing through I know who can go to vaccinate people as soon as they want. We could give the people between 60 and 75, the population with a comorbidity, as it is called, the people with a medical stain or problem that are now on the ice, together with the chronically ill also under 65, faster and more priority. We could also see if there can't be any more coming from Russia, that fantastic vaccine they have there. The Prime Minister says, "Then they'll have to go to the EEA first." But Mrs Merkel, for whom you have so much sympathy, already had bilateral contact with Mr Putin in December and January to see if they could help with the production of the vaccine in Germany, pending a possible application to the EEA. If you are prepared to do so, I ask Mr. Prime Minister. Then my last example. From those tubes, we couldn't get six, but seven vaccines. That doesn't seem to be possible, as we were supposed to be at the briefing this morning, because we don't have enough low-volume syringes. They weren't ordered. Apart from the fact that it was not ordered once again, according to the specialist, this could prevent 15% pivoting at the hearing. That means you can just put 15% more vaccines. They're just a few examples. I think you can do more, and maybe you will. But tell them you're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	Yes. Part of it does, too. I'm gonna take it apart. First, on the issue of logistical support. I believe it was Jesse Klaver who said: it is just a sign of strength to accept help. I agree with him. That is why we have asked for and received a great deal of support. RIVM is advised on the logistics and the entire planning process by Defense, as well as the people of Movianto, of Unilever. I can say from my own experience that Unilever is A1 when it comes to logistics. But there are also others from the business community involved. In addition, RIVM is advised on the logistics and planning process. This is done under the flag of the top logistics sector. VNO-NCW is also involved, including ASML and Heineken. This is done under the direction of Professor Jan Fransoo of Tilburg University and TU Eindhoven. We are very pleased with all this help. That is really very important. It also ensures that we organise the entire vaccination process as optimally as possible, of course under direction and final responsibility of Jaap van Delden, about the counterpart of Jaap van Dissel, another Jaap van D. van RIVM. He coordinates that whole operation and is our czar at this point. So here's what I agree with Wilders. Let's do this. If Hugo de Jonge or I get signals that there can be more, that we can call in more help, we talk about it every day, three times a week we sit together and we call all day and then we do it right away. So much for the logistics process in the Netherlands. We now also see the first effects of it. We are closing the gap with other European countries. But of course the depression is not just that hole with other European countries, because even if you close that hole, you've only vaccinated 4% or 5%. The main problem is, of course, the availability of vaccines. That's what Wilders' other point is looking at. I just went into Sputnik. Of course, we also have production opportunities in the Netherlands. Germany's working on it. Wherever we can help, we will. Again, Hugo de Jonge will go into it in a moment. We have some very specific ideas, which we are working on these days, to do even more from the Dutch production power in that European volume. We really think there are possibilities there. You cannot guarantee results, but we do want to make far-reaching commitments. Finally, Mr Wilders asks: should you not let other groups lead the way? The newspapers had good analyses of the whole vaccination policy this morning. I make one sentence out of it: once you have a strategy and you say "we do it in this order," you have to try to stick to it as much as possible. All the changes in how you handle those orders... With AstraZeneca you are probably forced to look at them again, because that might be effective in another age group. The Health Council advises us: start with the elders and then continue with the people who take care of them. The whole of Europe actually does that. We also did the acute care professionals. There will always be other groups you say shouldn't they go first? I am also thinking of social groups that are important. That's nice, but then there's gonna be two risks. The first is: the total flow of vaccines is small, so you can't solve very much with them and other groups are delayed. The second problem is that it leads to an increase in complexity. That's the most important lesson from previous vaccination campaigns you saw in the paper this morning. Increased complexity means delay. So be careful with that. That strategy stands. Inside you have to be willing to make adjustments based on the latest insights, but not toss over entire groups. Perhaps Mr Wilders at AstraZeneca gets his sense for a bit, because that is just more effective in certain groups than in others. But it is really not wise to do that from the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	It's okay. It's okay. In part, the Prime Minister is right. But you're telling the wrong person. The PVV was the one who advocated that this group should be the first to be vaccinated from day one. The Minister, who may not agree with me, will be able to confirm that. I said from day one: start, except, of course, with the people who work in hospitals and with the elderly in the nursing homes, immediately with the people who are in the ICUs. Your criterion for taking away the freedom of the Netherlands, which I even understand, is that the capacity of the ic's should not get in trouble. Well, then it makes sense that you also bring the people who are now on the ICU. My party, the PVV, said that from the start. So don't come to me with changing the strategy, because if anyone has been consistent on that point, we are. Mr President, one final point: regular concern. I want the Prime Minister to say something about that; the rest I will do with the esteemed Minister of Health. After my input, I have received a lot of emails from people who are waiting for a new kidney or people who have cancer, who will be helped later. Those are terrible stories. I also believe that those people have the right to get a perspective from the Prime Minister and to hear a plan about when they can be helped. They're in pain. They're losing life years. Maybe some people even die. That is a problem that is at least as big as that of people with corona, if not for care even bigger. I want the Prime Minister to say something about this. The letter says: contact your insurer or your handler. As in: things will get better. We can also see that things are getting better now, but a lot of people suffer from this. Do you have a plan and a message for all the people at home who are watching this debate and who would like to get treatment quickly in the hospital, because they are in pain and because they really have a medical problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. This is an extremely important question and a great concern, rightly addressed by Mr Wilders. Let me start by saying that I do not agree with those who say that you should relieve the burden of care. We don't need to relieve the burden of care. In health care, incredibly good professionals work. They're dying to work hard. There's another problem. That is exactly the problem that Mr Wilders is referring to here. That is that, when it comes to acute care, they are mainly dealing with people with corona and are not getting to the people they also want to help, with cancer surgery and heart surgery that must take place, or people with heart failure. I'm not talking about acute heart attacks. There's room for that. But I'm talking about heart surgery. What happens in practice? You can almost see that physically, almost literally. Suppose someone threatens to come because of corona and has to be driven into intensive care, and someone's also coming into the hospital for a scheduled operation where you need an ic-bed after that operation. If there are too few beds, the person who walks in with that suitcase is at risk of being asked because of the lack of capacity: can you come back later, because we need this bed now. That is a debate that we may need to have again, also in relation to the four intensiveists who said: shouldn't you have a limited number of beds for covid? I think that debate should be held. That's not as easy as some people think. This also means the risk of a shortage of ic-beds before there is even a shortage of ic-beds in general. I go back to Mr Wilders' question. I thought that Mr Heerma, or someone else, said it in a response: throughout Europe, the situation is actually similar to that in the Netherlands in terms of pressure on health care and the postponement of operations. Take Germany, where there are more ic-beds than in the Netherlands. Take England, where there are very severe bottlenecks within hospitals. The care we have is decorated on peaks. We can handle it. We can't handle spikes that are long-lasting. That is a debate we have had a few times. We'll talk about the National Care Reserve. People say, "Then you have to play mothball in hospitals." That's not even the point. All you have to do is make sure you have people who can stand on those beds, who can work there and who are trained for that. Wilders himself has made proposals for that, and so has others. We're working on that. What you do see now is that after the first wave we have more ic-beds and also clinical beds and beds available outside the hospital. But that does require a huge amount of care staff. The next item is a cooperation between nurses, doctors, hospitals, general practitioners, community care and vvt institutions, to ensure that this type of large flow can be absorbed in a more structural way. I don't think anyone's gonna say there's a money problem. There isn't. If this costs money, it costs money, because this is essential. We've got our care set up at top level, really, really good. Nor do I plead for 1,000 ICU beds with fully trained staff who are permanently empty. You gotta come up with something smart to do that. It shouldn't be like people have nothing to do until there's a pandemic. But if there is to be a pandemic, it must be able to cope for a longer period of time, without compromising scheduled cancer and heart surgery. I'm just reducing it to those two serious conditions, but of course there are more. That's one of the lessons we have to learn from each other. Wilders had this discussion a few times with Van Ark. And you see this in all the election programs of the major political parties. We have to address this in the Netherlands and the first steps have been taken, but that is not overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	I actually wanted to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr President, may I finish this? This is my last interruption to the Prime Minister. Of course, we talked about structural solutions. I have made proposals, sometimes together with my colleague from the CDA, who has happily supported the Chamber. But now I'm talking about the short term. I do not think the Prime Minister's example is a good example. He's talking about someone walking into the ICU with a briefcase. I'd almost say, if only it were true. Those people don't walk in with a briefcase anymore. This morning we also read it in the newspapers: it's people who are in pain. Some people can't leave their homes, they can't walk anymore. They can't even move, says a specialist. It's people who have cancer. They're people who need a kidney transplant. They don't come in with a briefcase. They're in terrible pain right now. They're waiting for a transplant. They may have cancer or don't know that yet, but they feel bad and don't go to the GP or the specialist. We need to do something about that now. I know and notice it in my mailbox and undoubtedly the rest of the groups in this house and probably the Prime Minister in his turret as well. A lot of people who are now thinking television: when am I going to be helped? Of course, they are also happy with a longer-term story, but I want the Prime Minister to give people a perspective that goes beyond: call your insurer or your handler in the next few weeks. What do you say to these people? How can you offer them the perspective that, if they need a new kidney, if they have cancer or if they can't walk from the pain, they'll still get a place in the hospital in the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	Let's talk about the briefcase first. I agree with Mr Wilders. The example of the briefcase was at the beginning of the crisis, when someone could come to the hospital for a cancer surgery. Mr Wilders is quite right, because the longer an operation is delayed, not only does the risk of death increase, but also the risk of serious side effects. He's absolutely right about that. My example was much more about the beginning of the crisis than it is about now. I therefore share his view. If you look at the situation right now, the average scaling down of the operating rooms is 35%. But the percentage of hospitals that are really important to provide acute and semi-acute care is now 100. That's just as important to know. The entire critical care delivery is done in 70% of hospitals. Then you talk about class 1 through class 3 in care. The remaining 30% indicate that they can deliver partly. So it's not like they're doing nothing. When it comes to planning care, class 4 and class 5, 61% can deliver that part and 39% can't. But 61% of them do. What you see is that I would like to have said that once again, it is true that we are dealing with delayed care and missed references, but that this is partly because people with complaints do not report to the general practitioner. I'd like to appeal to that again. Always do! Go to the GP for complaints! Don't stay away from there! In the beginning, people stayed away because they were afraid of infection, perhaps even now, or because they were afraid that the GPs were too busy. But the general practitioners are almost begging for complaints. That too is part of the problem we now have. And yes, it's true that that's mainly from the first wave, most of the missing references. We now see that the number of references in the second wave is at a largely comparable level as in the same period in the previous years. So the hospitals manage better to find the balance between those two problems. But with that, I can't reassure everyone who is watching, is in pain and has been told about an operation "it can't now." I simply can't do that. I would just like to say that, fortunately, thanks to the fact that the snot is working in front of the eyes in the care, it is also better in making the combinations in logistics smart than in the first wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	My eyes went from the Prime Minister to Mr Wilders and back again. This lockdown hits her in the face. But that's not my biggest concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	We're all about to take your haircut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	I do recommend a hair clippers at home. That's extremely easy. I want to get back to the vaccination strategy. The Prime Minister said in a subtlety: we are looking for focus; we are making some exciting choices and our logistics advisors indicate that this can be done. Are the medical advisors also suggesting that this is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	The exact evidence is in the pile of Hugo de Jonge. We do not, of course, do so without the basis of the good advice. But I would like to say that in general, political terms, it is quite exciting. I also don't hear anyone saying "don't do it," but of course it gets exciting when you have 100% or 50% on the shelf, and you say "I plan five days ahead." But I don't have any exact answers to this right now in my set. Hugo de Jonge will be right back on that medical side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	Just now, in the interrupting debate, the Prime Minister also seized a whole list of people who indeed assist in logistics and distribution. But at the same time we also take a risk when it comes to the time between the first and second shot and stock management. So that was just my open question: don't we take too much risk, and shouldn't we have a little more slack? It should be possible not only for logistics, but also for medical purposes. Do the medical specialists and the GGD say "this is justified"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	May I ask you to go to the next piece of evidence for the exact purpose? I just don't have that here ready right now. I didn't prepare for vaccination, other than the right question: what do you actually do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	I had Mr Klaver standing, but I see you standing, Mrs Sazias. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	A number of colleagues, and I too, have asked to use Defence for logistics, because it is good at that. Then the Prime Minister says: we let everyone advise us, including the Defense and Unilever. That decision we take with the whole cabinet, you say. I understand that. But after the decision, you have the execution, and that's where it goes wrong. Then the Prime Minister says, "If we get signals that more is needed, then..." Well, how many more signals does the Prime Minister want? I think that, especially for example, when the people have to be vaccinated at home, we now see in The Hague that there are cars driving around with mobile vaccination units; that seems to me to be the right party to do this properly. Again, they're good at that. Why don't you ask them to take on that part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	Here's what I'm gonna say. Yeah, we started too late. That's what got us caught up. We're running it in. There is now a logistics operation, which is also in the process of catching up. Everyone who can help in logistics is involved: Defence, Unilever, Movianto, UPS, VNO-NCW, Tilburg University and TU Eindhoven, Heineken and ASML. On security, those are the national police, again the Defense Department, and the KMar. On the execution these are of course the GGD, the LHV, NHG, InEen, KNMP, NVZA, SNPG, Verenso, NVAG, Actiz, NVZ, NFU, VGN and LNAZ. On registration these are: Ordina, Deloitte, Red Hat, Rubix, Secura, Sogeti, Nictiz, ICTU, CGI, Comparex, DarwinIT, E-Zorg...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	I can go a long way; I'm only halfway there. So we really do have Mr Klaver's point, all the help we can get. That's a good one now. Suppose, on the advice of the Chamber, we would say: we are going to change this complex structure, which is now in the process of catching up, against the backdrop of a vaccination strategy, by saying 'we are going to move a piece of logistics back to another'. Let me assure you of one thing: that does not result in acceleration, but in a delay. I don't think at the moment the problem is... I'm not saying there won't be any more mistakes. You will continue to see more photos of something that is not going well in practice in the coming weeks. Then we'll fix it as soon as we can. That's inevitable in such a complex operation. But you don't have to say here right now: we're gonna tear this place apart again. You shouldn't do that. I think the house itself looks good now. There will still be adjustments to be made, but we think that we have now found the right balance. You can also see that in the large number of vaccinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	When I hear all these parties, the Prime Minister was only halfway through, I think, "Oh, my gosh, is it going well with all these different parties together?" Then who's coordinating this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	I just told you. We have support along two lines: we have one coordinating supporter and we have someone who is ultimately responsible for the whole operation. The final responsibility lies with Jaap van Delden of RIVM. You often see him in the hearing, on television and so on. He's like the Jaap van Dissel for the whole vaccination part. In addition, we do the entire logistics operation under the flag of the Top Sector Logistics. We are extremely pleased that this logistics operation is led by Professor Jan Fransoo of Tilburg University.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	There is now just a lot on the table of one minister: the test policy and the vaccination strategy. And we are still working on all the other measures that need to be taken: opening or not opening schools, curfews and all that sort of thing. To be honest, I find this irresponsible. The Prime Minister is responsible for his team. So I think you should dare to say: we are moving responsibilities in that. I have previously put forward proposals for an additional minister when it comes to testing....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why doesn't the Prime Minister want to go there and leave everything with one minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	But it's not like everything's with one minister. I get the question. If that were the case, I would agree with Mr Klaver. The whole approach to the measures we took on Tuesday is an important point. Yeah, that's what we're meeting about. But who is the one who ultimately ensures that this takes shape in the regulation and enforcement? That is the NCTV, under the responsibility of Ferd Grapperhaus, the Minister of Justice and Security. In the division of roles between the Minister for Medical Care and the Minister for Medical Care, the entire section of the conditions of employment of the Minister for Medical Care went to the Minister for Medical Care. Why? Just because the health secretary said about the role-sharing, I'm gonna take that now, because that's gonna relieve you of a piece. Of course, the Minister of VWS works with part of his traditional portfolio, but he can also focus on the major themes such as the roadmap and vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	Corona is not only a very large and comprehensive subject..................................................................................................................................................... You have two very large legs, namely testing and vaccinating. We see that the same mistakes are made every time and that this minister is under constant attack. Maybe one day we should stop criticizing one minister. It is impossible for one person to carry out this task. I see the Health Minister shaking no. If it is not an impossible task, then quite a few mistakes will be made. Instead of going on about that, let's divide up those tasks. That's what I mean by asking for help. That's just a sign of strength. It's the Prime Minister's responsibility. Why doesn't the Prime Minister intervene when he sees that the Minister is having a hard time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	I see the Minister's having a hard time. We all have heavy wallets and we're in the middle of a pandemic. Yeah, everybody's having a hard time and a hard time. Hugo de Jonge is not unique in that. We're all having a hard time. Of course, Klaver would be right if his suggestion could help. Then I'd do the same right away. That's not a problem at all. Then Hugo the Young himself would have long decided to say to me: "Oh, I'm going to divide it differently." I wouldn't even be in the picture myself, because that would have happened a long time ago. No, it doesn't work that way. Hugo de Jonge now focuses on topics such as vaccination and testing. These are important issues. "Because things are going wrong, apparently the Minister is too busy." I don't agree with the crazy thought in this question. Because it's different. We are doing our utmost, with the very best support we can get, to do both testing and vaccination as flawlessly as possible. But it's unthinkable... I'm just gonna say it here in all honesty, because I don't know how else to do it. It is inevitable that mistakes will be made in these types of large, complex operations. We see it all over the world. I do not want to use that as a condolence, but we see it everywhere: in Germany, England, France, Austria, Denmark, everywhere. It's inevitable. But what are you supposed to do? Then you must never be too modest to accept help and see it as a force, as Mr Klaver said. So that's what we're doing. I have told you what we have called for, both from RIVM coordination and from universities and beyond the whole network of civil society organisations and business organisations. Every time something goes wrong, it has to be repaired immediately. We've talked about vaccination before, and I take full responsibility for that. Of course, we put in a vaccine that eventually came later. As a result, the GGD was bet on it too late. There's nothing the GGD can do about that either. Then we should have converted sooner. That's what got us caught up. We're walking into it now. So if I thought it could be faster because of a different division of roles... I don't believe that. I'm even convinced that that's just until... You don't solve a problem with more doctors at the bed or with more management layers. It really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	Just for the record, here's what I'm gonna say. The Prime Minister does this all the time. Let's take that away. I would never say that there are no mistakes. Mistakes are made everywhere. That's not the whole point. So it makes sense to say that mistakes will be made. The point is, why don't you choose another division of labour in your cabinet? Why don't you make sure someone else can take over a responsibility? When vaccinating, about everything that could go wrong has gone wrong throughout the preparation. At the moment we see that success is being made that are better, but to all the questions I ask the Minister of Health the answer is as follows. How many extra people are being recruited now? How many puncture sites are there gonna be later? We don't know, because it's all decentralised. This needs to be controlled in a very hard, central way. That's a more than full-time job. One person with central direction has to do that. At the moment, there are so many chain partners who decide what they do. The GGDs decide for themselves how to deal with their IT infrastructure. The minister says, "I don't build IT networks, and that's not my concern. It's time for central management. Please, I'd almost like to beg: don't be so stubborn and divide the tasks differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	I think I'm genuinely not stubborn. If I thought it would help, I'd really do it. I'm open to those suggestions. When I look at the three major surgeries we're facing right now, first of all, it's making sure the beds are there and that we keep the normal, planned operations going as best we can. Of course, we have received a great deal of help. That was also under the motto "never feel too good to ask for help." That was help from Ernst Kuipers, of the entire network working, the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spread, which was set up at the end of March. This centre is doing a fantastic job, which means that a decentralised hospital system now operates much more from central coordination to ensure that all these beds are reached. It's in the cabinet with Tamara van Ark. It's not in Hugo de Jonge. That's one big operation over there. There are two other surgeries at Hugo de Jonge. Those are indeed the testing and vaccination. I think this is so well decorated. I really do not believe that it will help to bring in or to switch between others. Maybe we just don't agree on that. I'd like to take away the thought that... Mr Klaver has a point in itself that you should always be open to the idea that you could organise it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	My great concern... I like to be right, but sometimes I don't. I see now that we are not finished with the scenarios for this spring, if we get more vaccines in one go. Then where do we stand and how can we switch quickly? I see a lot of work being done to solve the mistakes that have been made over the past few months. At present, however, no work is being done on the near future. That's about the next three, four months. For that, you really need a different type of expertise. That is why I repeat this question. I will continue to ask this question and I will also table a motion for it. Please appoint a government commissioner. Put it to other ministers. Seize, Prime Minister. Grab it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	If that were necessary, I would. I do think that we should acknowledge that something did not go well at the beginning. But the logistics operation is now in place. Mistakes will continue to be made. Then we'll fix it. No matter how well you organize the organization, mistakes will continue to be made. You will continue to see images of things that do not go well at a test site or vaccination site, but we will try to minimize it and repair it immediately. I believe that the logistics operation is now largely in good shape. You can also see that we are gradually closing the gap. Then there is a major issue, which Hugo de Jonge will also address in this way, about the European perspective. Of course, Mr Klaver is also right to expect the cabinet to provide us with more and more insight into the medium- and longer-term approach to vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes, of course. Mr. Chairman. Then a few things, to begin with the relaxations in general and then education. I may also refer to the letter sent and the briefing by Jaap van Dissel, RIVM's Chief Infection Disease Control Officer, this morning for this debate. Perhaps this will help me to answer a number of questions about the risks we are taking. Of course, life always involves risks in the event of a crisis. But I think the things we do now, both in education and with click-and-collect, are justified. I am truly convinced of this, also on the basis of the opinions we have received on this subject. That's what I'm saying in a general sense. In this way, I will look into education in its practical effects. I have already said that we all think so, I think how intense it is for the Netherlands that the rest of the lockdown just goes through. We, as a cabinet, will have to consider in the coming days in the light of an updated opinion that we hope to get on the weekend on what else is needed to prevent the English variant from causing a sharp increase in the number of infections. We'll get back to you on that as soon as possible. As a consequence, there was a question as to whether the cabinet could take the impact on society more explicitly and better with all measures. A number of other questions were also raised. We've talked about that before. Mr Van der Staaij and I have also discussed this in debates. I would like to assure him that I did so at the time, and I would like to repeat that we are going to make it clear what the impact of measures is, especially in the non-economic sense. We discussed this in the debate on 21 January and also the mental consequences of all measures. To that end, the cabinet uses what I like to call homely, homely; it's awfully ugly jargon, but I don't have a better word for a so-called cross-section test. Then you know what I mean. In that you actually look at: what are the anticipated effects, can you name them, of possible measures on public health, including mental well-being, but also on the economy and society, including communication, behaviour, implementation and enforcement? In addition, you need input from others other than the OMT. Then the behavior unit of the RIVM, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the NKC, which deals with communication, of course the national police and the security regions, the VNG and, of course, the relevant trade departments, is also important. You can also see in the Catshuispieces that all go to the Chamber nowadays that there is a wide weighting. You have seen the core of the integral weighting of the last package in the documents of 31 January. I would also like to promise that this cross-cutting test will be used again for the next weekend and the beginning of next week. I also want to avoid a misunderstanding at this point, and that is that the OMT is doing more than they should. The questions we ask the OMT can always be read back in the OMT's advice letters. They are therefore transparent. The OMT used to meet after the Catshuis, nowadays before the Catshuis. They meet on Friday and come to an opinion on that day. After that the meetings will take place in the Catshuis, where Van Dissel usually explains the opinion orally. It's not exactly on paper yet, but they've gathered and are putting it on paper. We'll get it on paper that Sunday or Monday. The OMT really advises independently. Honestly, the people who are in it, you know them from radio and television... aren't the kind of people who would let me put pressure on them. I have no interest in that either, or Hugo de Jonge or anyone else. All disciplines are in there. They're about what they're good at, the epidemiological side, but of course they're not hermits. They also put their garbage bags on the street, have children or grandchildren or nephews and nieces. They are therefore also aware of various aspects of social discussions. But then it's up to the OMT itself what they do with it. So it is not the case that we ask: weigh that up. But if they do that once or say something about it, then of course they can. That too is part of that independence. If you were to say 'no, you should advise as a kind of hermit' I am not saying that Mr Van der Staaij says that, but if you were to go through that extreme, then that would influence again. Maybe we shouldn't. Before I get to education, first a question about click-and-collect and what the importance of that four-hour interval is. This prevents people from going shopping without having a specific purpose. You're trying to stop the fun-shopping. Actually, that's it, that's all. And if I'm asked what the profit is for the R-value: we've often said that we don't have a shelf with R-values on it. I wish. But that's the nasty thing: that virus attacks us in the back and we didn't have years to calculate all those R-values in advance in detail. So much for this subject. I'll be in education in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	First Mr Van Haga and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	Of course, that click-and-collect is no help to the small shopkeepers, because they do not have all that in order yet. I didn't just ask that question. I was wondering what exactly was the basis for those four hours. Because someone's been thinking about it behind his computer: let's hang on to it for a while. I understand that the cabinet is very opposed to fun shopping, but I don't think this is fun shopping at all. It's just that you can pick up your products from those small shops in an easy way. So where did you really get those four hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	I have no idea. I think someone just thought, "What's the point?" That's to prevent you from clicking and collecting immediately. So do a few hours in between. That's probably when this was done. I think those four hours are wise. Then you've got about a day's work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	This is really amazing. So someone just did this and thought, four hours. Four hours is a dramatic long time. Then let's make it very easy by making it one hour now, because then it gets a lot easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	No, you just want to have quite a bit of time in between, so that people on the street don't do the click and collect it 15 minutes later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	But I'm talking about an hour now. I don't do "click" on the street and walk right in. I'm fine with 15 minutes; I wouldn't wait 15 minutes. But if four hours is so arbitrary, just fell out of the sky and someone just came up with four hours, then we can turn it into an hour now, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	First of all, let's see Mr Van Haga. It's not like when Corona broke out, we had a whole room with evidence on how to handle corona. So we have to develop that with each other all the time. You can't exactly back everything up scientifically. But I think it's wise that you have quite a time span, take an interval between ordering and picking up. I think that's wise. And whether that's three or five hours: I'm fine with four hours, because then you've got about a day's share. What we do not want is that things are going too fast in these shops and more staff need to be employed. We want staff in these shops to be very limited, so that contamination cannot occur there too. We need to pick up the stuff outside, not inside. You can't do that; you can't go into the store. So it is subject to so many limitations, but it gives you just a little more possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	About the staff and everything, I understand all that. That staff has nothing to do now, so they're glad to be able to work in that store again. The point is that this cabinet has not given any thought to why four hours has been proposed. I also understand that in the beginning of corona there was no room in which people were doing all kinds of math. Apparently, we still don't a year later. I think everyone agrees: the shorter that time, the better it is for that little shopkeeper. So again, if it hasn't been thought about, we'd better shorten that time. Then let's put it at one o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	No, it's been thought about, but I can't say exactly why it's not three, five or four hours. That's what I'm saying. Of course it's been considered, because you want to have quite a time span. Again, whether that's three, five or four hours, you can talk about that. We have come out at four o'clock, about one part of the day, so that you avoid too short a time between one and the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	So it seems that there has been some thought about it. Then I would like to see the calculations on the basis of which we decided those four hours. Let me put it this way: if there are no such calculations, I think you have just said that there are no such calculations, then you must also be so cavalier to bring that time back to an hour. Because I think this argument is actually a slap in the face of the little shopkeeper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	No, I understand the little shopkeeper's having a hard time, but you really need a pretty long time between the order and the pickup. So five hours would be possible; that's allowed, but I don't think that's right. I think four hours is the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	First of all, thank you for the Prime Minister's commitment to this broad social weighting of certain measures. That is an important point. I have another question about the OMT advisory. I noticed that the Prime Minister, quite rightly, says: they are simply answering the questions we are asking. But when it comes to education, the government has specifically asked: do you see any objections to the careful opening of education again? So the cabinet is actually asking this whole question on the basis of the political desire to reopen education, with the question of how that could be justified. But if you were to ask the question if there's actually room to open something, you might get a completely different answer. So there is an interaction in the way the question is asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	Of course. Agreed. Van der Staaij is right about that. Of course, there is always an interaction there, but that is obviously due to the fact that we are politicians; the OMT is not; we as a cabinet are. We have, of course, also had regular discussions with the Chamber: education is a priority, in education primary education is the primary schools, primary schools are a priority. Plus the fact that when we extended the lockdown in January, we said: actually you would p.o. Now we want to open up again, but we have that English variant and we want to know exactly what that spread is doing. Well, "exactly," as good as possible, among children. Those insights weren't there before. The OMT opinions were rather negative on this point, but on the basis of the latest insights, the OMT says: it's not without risk, but it's limited and teachers don't suddenly get much sicker than others in the Netherlands. So far they are even lower in the ranking of infections. So it's possible. That's how it goes. We have, of course, put that specific question to you. That's right, but of course we're politics. But the OMT could have said no again. How they then formulate it and how they let some more social themes be reflected in the opinion is really up to them. If I said, "Don't write that down," I'd get involved with the OMT again. I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	No, I think it makes sense if you ask that question like that. I also share it; let there be no misunderstanding about it. We want that to happen again, but then you also see that you look at such a question in a different way. My appeal would therefore be to ask not only the open question as to whether there is still room for some flexibility in the future, but the answer will soon be no, but sometimes also to look at the conditions under which you could take certain steps. Because that could give us a different answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	Can I say a few things about that? On its own, but I would just like to say that I am coming to Jesse Klaver's question on that point, which we have already said, of course, that it is now on top of the pile. So there's a pretty good chance that you're going to ask about that at some point and then maybe about other forms of education. We always ask under what conditions. That's what you see in the OMT recommendation on primary schools; I'll get to that in a minute, you know. There is a whole series of conditions under which that should be done. Hugo de Jonge will go into the relaxations as soon as they can hopefully again over a broader front. Well, "never." That will happen anyway, but hopefully as soon as possible. We are more and more inclined to look not so much at whether you can open one sector completely, but to see if you can take smaller steps over a wider front. I think Dijkhoff and others talked about that too. Then you'll ask for a more targeted advice. Then perhaps we won't say: can the hairdressers open? Perhaps I do; I do not know exactly what we are going to ask, but you will always try to open up not so much one whole sector, but to give a lot of sectors a little air over a broad front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	It is good to hear that this broad social consideration is now being taken more into account. We understood that, too. I would like to know how, as a Chamber, if this very broad social consideration is again made this weekend about the curfew, we will eventually be informed about where the cabinet's final balance is and what considerations have been taken into account. I saw legislation on that curfew coming in now, for example. So as a chamber we are going to talk about this again. So I would like to know how we know how the government weighs those considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	By describing that as well as possible, but of course I don't know yet. I don't even know if the curfew should go on. If I belong to you today, at the hearing of the House of Representatives, but also looking at the OMT recommendation, I fear the worst. Of course, that doesn't look so good. But if that is inevitable, then you try to support it as best you can. But yes... try, find good words and show us how to make that weighting, but I can't tell you that right now. If I had that already, I could send it. We don't have it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u69	But the promise is made that this will be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible, so that we can look at it ourselves, given the written submissions and the kind of things that are now going around again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes. We're really gonna do that. This is a maximum effort obligation, adjacent to a result obligation. I'm gonna keep a little bit of space because I'm gonna have to take a look at what we've got, but we're really gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u71	Oh, there you are again, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u72	Hey!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u73	Yeah, it was about curfew, so I thought I'd keep going right away, because I also had a question about that. Is it true that there is no waiver from curfew for sick visits? That doesn't seem to be there and I get a lot of e-mails about that. That is a very poignant situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u74	For family care, there is an exemption anyway. I'll check it out, 'cause I don't want to do freestyling about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u75	Well, I looked it up. The list says "medical assistance to himself or an animal," "helping a person in need" or "excursion," but then you are usually too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u76	But it also includes family care; I am sure of that. I'm just gonna go check on sick people. We're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u77	It is important to know whether visiting the sick, i.e. in a hospital or in a sick person's home, is covered by family care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u78	I don't think so if it's for an uplifting word. I'd love to, but it's not for that. When it comes to caring, it is, because then it is family care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u79	Will you return to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u80	If he asks the question like that, I can answer it like that. Then I've already answered the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u82	Then I would like to ask the question more specifically. What if someone with cancer is in the hospital? Can they receive visitors after 9:00 p.m., and have these visitors an exemption from curfew?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u83	If at that time someone is not very seriously ill and is likely to die, I don't think so, because then you have too many exceptions to curfew. But if someone has to go there to provide care, so caring things, it's true anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u84	But that is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u85	But not because someone's in the hospital and is seriously ill. But in the final phase, of course, it's okay. That was even in the first lockdown in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u86	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u87	It's not about the final phase. The point is that someone has cancer and is in the hospital. Can those friends and family have a visit after 9:00?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u88	No, not that. Only if it's very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u89	So you can't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u90	No. I hate it all, but of course that's why I hate curfew so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u91	Yeah, you keep saying that: it's horrible. You don't want it, but the virus et cetera. But isn't it a very poignant situation when someone is in the hospital, has cancer and can't have visitors after 9:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u92	But hospitals have been closed for a long time, haven't they? Visiting hours are over, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u93	Finally, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u94	I'm going to file a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u95	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u96	I'd love to say yes, of course, but if you make too many exceptions, you can't. When it comes to family care or is a terminal situation, it can of course be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u97	Yes, you did. Then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u98	The Prime Minister has already said several times that he actually understands the feeling of a lot of people who are mentally through it. But today we also saw something special happening in the Chamber because VVD and CDA have presorted by maintaining the curfew. Now I hear the Prime Minister say that there is no figures yet, but we can see that there is some sort of pre-sorting. Would the Prime Minister like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u99	No, only the existing OMT advice says you have to maintain it. We have asked for a new OMT advice to have the latest insight into the spread of the British virus and, as far as possible, because that will not be possible after exactly two weeks, about what curfew does. The OMT advice as it stands now says that click-and-collect is possible and that primary schools can open, but only while maintaining all other measures, including curfew. You'll see on page 27 of the hand-out we had. I don't know if that's also page 27 in the technical briefing. What happens when you let go of those things. Then in the modeling you really have a dramatic situation on the ic's. But we're going to see this weekend if that's still the picture and if we can tell more about how these instruments work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u100	I would like to take back to the discussion we have had over the last few weeks in the run-up to curfew. It was asked from the Chamber what exactly is the specific effect of such a curfew. In my view, one or two days before the debate, a figure of 8% to 12% reduction was magicalized out of the high hat. The Prime Minister said on Tuesday evening that we have not seen that very well. Now I hear him say, while I hear the parliamentary groups of the VVD and the CDA say that that curfew may continue as far as they are concerned, that we still have to see what the precise effect will be in the coming period. I hope that will also have its attention, because a lot of people in the country are worried about this. A lot of people are through this. A lot of people are really done with it. If the Prime Minister really understands what's bothering these people, what's bothering them, I would expect him to take a serious attitude and expect him to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u101	Agreed. That's what you should expect from me. But let's talk about exactly what we've done so far. We said that curfew is needed to give an extra punch, an extra tap, on the numbers down. We said: when it ends, we don't really know exactly what it does yet, but it is for a certain period of time. That's still the situation. He's for a certain period of time. So it's due to end next Wednesday morning, 4:30, 4:30. That's the political agreement we have. That hasn't changed either. It was said at the time: but then you do not know exactly what it has done. No, but we do know from the literature that the expectation is that it can make a significant contribution. By the way, it is 8% to 13%. This was demonstrated by the modeling of RIVM on the basis of a number of international studies. It's not like the Cabinet is wiping this out of the top hat. This is really based on the insights the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment has shared with us. That was the situation. New is that we have seen in the last few days, since last weekend and also at the beginning of this week, that those same advisors in the OMT are very concerned about the latest insights about that English variant. It's going much faster. In the meantime it seems to be two thirds in the mix. The infection also appears to be even higher. It's about 50% more contagious than the classic variant and then we thought. So those are new insights. They say literally in the opinion you have seen today: primary schools and click-and-collect, yes, but while maintaining all other measures. What did we say as a cabinet? We would also very much like to give this space to primary education, childcare and the click-and-collect option, which does not add much additional damage, but we would like to look again at the insights of the OMT on the basis of two things this weekend. One. What information do you have in the rest of this week about the English variant and the infection? Of course, you always secretly hope that the sky will break open and the sun will shine. There is not much reason for that, I say quite honestly, but of course you hope for it. And two. You also hope to know a little more this weekend, not everything, but a little bit more about the actual effect of that curfew, so not the modeling but the actual effect. That's new. So the new is the even greater concern than one and a half, two weeks ago, yes, exactly two weeks ago about that English variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u102	This weekend the sun will not shine; it will snow hugely, I understood from the news. That is also the situation when we look at the figures. Nevertheless, we can see that the OMT in the same OMT opinion also clearly indicates that, given the figures, it is also a question of whether schools should be open. But considering the social effects, the OMT considers that proportional. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to take into account precisely what a curfew does to society and society from the same line of reasoning next weekend, and to make a similar assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u103	I have already said that we are always trying to address the cross-cutting issues of social and economic impact as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u104	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the numbers of vaccines, because it is of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u105	The numbers of vaccines? I was in the middle of education right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u106	That's right. Oh, you'd like to get on with your education first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u107	Yeah, I'm done with the vaccines. I don't have any more answers about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u108	Well, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister about that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u109	Shall I finish this subject first, Mr. Chairman? Because now we are going to start in the middle of my speech on the education of vaccines. Anyway, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u110	I'll take a look at Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u111	If it was still part of the previous part, I would like to ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u112	Go on. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u113	I thought I heard the Prime Minister say something, but correct me if it's not true, about investing in additional production capacity. I thought he said something about that. I'd like to ask you a question about that. I think, of course, that we must do everything we can to ensure that there are as many vaccines as possible, so that we can get out of this shortage as soon as possible. That is why I wanted to ask the Prime Minister about that. One. Does the cabinet now map where exactly is produced? Two. Are there still places where vaccines could be produced, in the Netherlands or outside the Netherlands, which are available for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u114	I don't have that available right now. That question wasn't asked in the first term either, so I couldn't prepare myself for that. But maybe Hugo de Jonge has that so available, at the tip of his fingers, which would once again show how well he does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u115	At the tip of his fingers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yeah, I heard that, too. Anyway, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u117	Isn't that good English? What's that statement like in English?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u118	I don't know, but I liked it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u119	Yeah, it's pretty, isn't it? I thought so, too. Okay, Mr. Chairman, seriously, education. We have been asked: why now and not after the holiday? That is because we say: it is of such great importance to let the children go back to school that we do not want to wait. A question has been asked about the Lansingerland investigation by several members. This indeed shows that children can become infected with the new variant, as with the old one, and that it is probably also more contagious for children. But just like the old variant, children seem much less contagious than adults. According to the OMT, they are not the engine of an outbreak, as they are with the flu. The risk was neither zero nor zero. That is why all these detailed guidelines for the opening up of education are also included. Are the schools ready? It's being worked on incredibly hard. There are measures that schools must follow and advice that schools can follow. As you know, the document has now been distributed by OCW. We hope that today, or as soon as possible, the PO Council and other bodies will come to the concrete directives on this basis. There are a few obligations. One is the BCO obligation, including the test after five days. Classes and the teacher, or groups if that class can be divided into groups, stay at home for five days if one is infected. A second obligation is that logistics needs to be shown exactly. There's a few obligations there. But one parent can enter the school and you have to spread the arrival and departure hours. The advice is to work in groups. That's an advice; if you can't, you don't have to. The advice is also: mouth caps in groups 7 and 8. I am falling a bit into a repetition of the letter, but those questions have been asked, so it might be good to mention that here as well. Then the question about the instructions and protocols. I have already said that we expect it from the PO Council and other partners as soon as possible, on the basis of the service document of the Ministry of Education. Let's talk about the G.D.D. At each GGD, a separate school team will be ready to support schools. That's really new. Hugo de Jonge will address the questions about testing in schools. He'll be picking up that part in a minute. I come to the questions of GroenLinks, among others, about what further. I think we all agree that for all students and students in secondary education, but also, as Klaver mentioned, MBO and higher education, both HBO and university, physical education is essential. There, by the way, we are working very hard on distance learning. I got to do it myself this morning. As you know, there is already an exception for vulnerable pupils and vulnerable students; they can come. There is also an exception for testing and practical education. We really want these forms of education to be open as soon as possible. In addition, insofar as you can set an order, secondary education is currently a priority. That is closed until 1 March. We're looking at what you need to do to reopen it responsibly. A number of schools are completely open to trial; said by my mind 35 secondary schools. There too is practiced with tests and quick tests. Hugo de Jonge can say a little more about that. So those pilots are running. Whether it can be done on 1 March must also be reflected in the OMT opinion we are receiving and in the decision-making process on 23 February. But our goal is after the p.o. The first priority is to ensure that the provisions of the Treaty of Rome are complied with. Inside you could also vary if there is no other way, that you first do the vmbo and then later havo and vwo or vice versa. You could also look at underbuilding/substratement. You could look at partial, so half/half. There are all kinds of options, but of course we would like it to be as extensive as possible, but then that space must be there as far as epidemiology is concerned. Then there was the question of being able to walk a year with the study, free of tuition fees. That would take away the pressure on young people. The Minister of Education and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media are working on the whole of education to shape a national programme. There is also the real idea that it should be a multi-annual approach. There are no taboos, so that includes the extension of school or study time. Mr Klaver's suggestion is far-reaching, but we take it with us. Therefore, for example, the current scheme also extends student compensation until the end of the academic year within the budget of 200 million. Students for whom the right to study funding ends will also receive a grant. Once again, we are trying with institutions and students to get students to graduate despite the delay in their studies. As I said, we are currently in the process of shaping that national programme. That must be, in its nature, multiannual, and rightly so. This in an attempt to answer the questions about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u120	Then I have Mr Jetten, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Klaver and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u121	I think everyone is very happy that primary education can be opened up again in the interests of the development of all those children. I also speak to many teachers and school leaders who say: we are on our own to stop looking at a screen but to stand in the classroom with those children. At the same time, there is a great deal of concern for teachers who are older and who are also caregivers for their own parents, and who are wondering: can I use these rapid tests as of Monday, can I count on a good source and contact research as of next week and when will we finally do something about the ventilation of my school building? When we closed the schools in the spring and when we closed the schools in the autumn, the cabinet already knew: there will come a time when the schools will open again and we must have accompanying measures ready. To what extent is the Prime Minister now convinced that all these preparations have actually been made so that it can be safe from day one next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u122	Hugo de Jonge is about to speak about the tests. About the source and contact research I can say, Hugo, please listen to me if this is also the latest state of affairs that this research has been extended. The GD's are also actively involved in this. OCW is also busy talking to them to get the communication up to speed. Children could already be tested for colds. All new now is that children can be tested immediately after five days of quarantine, because someone was infected, whether or not they have it. That is really new and therefore also an enlargement. And that's what they're ready for now. The point of ventilation is, of course, an ongoing conversation with schools. This has not suddenly been resolved in a week, but of course a lot has already happened in most schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u123	I also get other signals that it really differs from one municipality to another to the extent to which something actually happened to the school building.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u124	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u125	There's a lot of talk about it, but you also want the ventilation to be improved. That would therefore be very wise to make an extra effort. The Prime Minister mentioned just now that secondary education is also important. I very much agree with him. I would therefore ask him to look specifically at the secondary classes and the final classes which are still in a fragile time frame of their school career. I would ask him, above all, not to forget vocational education. Especially in the MBO a lot of practice lessons are still and internships do not go through. The major learning disadvantages arise in vocational education, where the practical lessons are crucial and where you cannot follow so much via the iPad or the computer. Last week I was at Summa College in Helmond, one of the best car courses in the Netherlands, but putting together a engine block is not via a zoom session.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u126	No, that's gonna be a mess. Moreover, there is already much possible in the final exam classes. I also understand Mr Jetten's suggestion. So that's what we're gonna include in those trade-offs. I understand what he's saying about whether it couldn't be done at once, about substructure/substructure, about bridge classes and final exam classes and so on. Of course, you can do it by school type. Those are all possibilities, of course. In the worst case, nothing can happen on March 1st, at best everything can happen, and there is also everything in between. It is, however, a priority that we should come up next.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u127	Back to primary school. There are a lot of primary schools that won't open next Monday. The teachers' heart bleeds, because they want to get back to work with their children, but it's just not in order. In fact, that's what the Prime Minister is saying. There will be protocols, tests will be arranged. My question to him is: can he guarantee the schools that tests will be available from next Monday, can he guarantee the schools that they will be able to open safely?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u128	Well, don't guarantee it, but we'll do everything we can. The BCO is really possible in terms of capacity. Hugo de Jonge will go into that test in a moment. There are schools that don't open on Monday because they say we're not ready yet. No one has been held to the impossible. So schools won't get fines right away. It will probably lead to the education inspection saying: let's talk about that for a while. By the way, teachers who themselves have vulnerable health or a partner with vulnerable health and who are concerned about it are the same as when the schools were open earlier last year. Of course, they have plenty of room to talk to the school management to see if there is a place for them in the school that is a little further away from the children. I believe that Mr Jetten or someone else asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u129	Of course, the Prime Minister is also concerned about the teachers and children. If I were him, I'd just want to make sure it's okay with the tests. I would not refer to a colleague. My question is: is that in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yeah, I'm sure we've got everything right for each other, but there's been a lot of detailed questions about testing and we need to make a little bit of a division of roles. I haven't prepared this in detail. And you asked me for guarantees, but we don't have guarantees. I can only say that everyone is working the snot in front of their eyes, both when it comes to BCO and testing, to make sure that we are as far away as possible on Monday to be able to do things safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u131	I just wanted to get back to secondary education and further education. Let me get this straight. It is already quite a step we are taking with primary education; that is exciting. Could I put it a little more positively? The aim is to enable education in secondary education at least on 1 March, but in what way we do not know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u132	Yeah, the pursuit... I'd say yes to that, but I don't want to promise anything. I don't want people hearing me say that, thinking, "Hi, hi. I don't want that disappointment if it turns out on February 23rd that it can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u133	Then let's turn the tables. The Prime Minister says that it is the aim to do this on 1 March and I say: but nobody has been held to the impossible, because we do not know how the virus develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u134	Then I hope they followed that part of the debate as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u135	I hope so, too. It's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u136	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u137	You can say "what's the difference" but we have to give perspective. And that means we're working on something. If it turns out in the next few weeks that things are gonna go crazy with that British variant, we're gonna have a problem anyway, but this is what we're working towards. I am very pleased about that when it comes to secondary education. That's perspective. Then we'll go to further education. What path does the Prime Minister see in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u138	To be honest, we haven't discussed that well enough. May I ask that Arie Slob and Ingrid of Engelshoven let the Chamber know about this when we are a step further in our discussions? We can look at it and we have not yet discussed MBO and higher education in detail. Can you say something about that, Hugo? Okay, Hugo de Jonge's gonna say a little more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u139	That's nice. Then we'll get back to that later. I ask for it because it might be an even greater logistical challenge, also because you need to set up more places for it. They've been talking about that for a long time. I know that this is also being considered in education. But I'd like to have an overview of where we are right now. Which sports halls are reserved to create extra space? I really do notice that there are problems with that group of students who also need something from contact education. That shouldn't take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u140	My appeal to the institutions is therefore to talk to the cultural institutions in the city. That happens in a number of places, but not everywhere. We can't totally coordinate that nationwide. What we know, we'll share.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u141	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mrs. Marijnissen or Mr. Segers? Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you, Mr Segers. There was a message from a union from the AOb. They said, "We do not feel sufficiently heard." And the criticism was also: we do not have enough time to settle this properly for Monday. My question to the Prime Minister is how these talks went. The Prime Minister states that this has been done in conjunction with the people in education, but they indicate that they do not feel sufficiently heard and that they do not have enough time. My second question is whether it has been considered that in part of the Netherlands the week after next week is a holiday week for schools. Is it included as a scenario how that would work, because perhaps the schools would have a little more time to organize it all properly? How did that weighing work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u144	I can answer the second question, not the first. I know exactly what the answer to the second question is, because I have been there myself. We have made that assessment and said: it is important that children go back to school as soon as possible, so let's not wait for the holiday. This means one week for some children and two weeks for other children until the crocus or spring break begins. Then there's the first question. The situation is that the OMT has said: it is possible, but there are very strict conditions. Partly those are things the OMT thinks you have to do, and there are some things it advises. What needs to be done is the BCO, after five days of testing, separate departure times, one parent and thus not a parent couple that delivers children, not in the school building, not in the school square, etc. There are also a few advices. Groups 7 and 8 wear a mouth cap, depending on what the school itself says about it, and if possible there is class in groups. That's pretty strict. As far as I am aware, we could not discuss this very extensively with the unions. For the second time, I will do one more check on the exact contacts there have been with the educational associations on that point. My firm suspicion is that the OMT recommendation did not leave much room for discussion. We also wanted the service document finished as soon as possible. That happened yesterday. We expect the PO Council and the other domes to come up with their translations today. It is true that not all schools will be ready on Monday. Again, to the impossible no one has been held. If that is not the case, the education inspection will not immediately impose fines. They'll probably say, "Let's talk about what else we can do to make it better for you." I'll just check to see if there's been any further contact with the unions. I will come back to that in the second term. I'm gonna check with Arie Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u145	That's good. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u146	Still, about the schools. Mr Ploumen asked: some schools remain closed. They're already saying they're gonna stay closed. The Prime Minister was mild about that. He said he would talk about this and that the inspection would look for dialogue on it. Now I am of the doctrine of sovereignty in my own circle. As a government, I think you should keep some distance from education. But this went a long way, especially since the childcare was open. I'm talking about West Brabant, where 31 schools stay closed. When has a limit been reached? It is a very far-reaching decision, which was taken very early and communicated to all parents. That's shocking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u147	It's not worker self-government, where schools can stay closed. What matters more to me is that if schools are not yet open on Monday or Tuesday, you do not immediately send the army there, but give the opportunity to have the conversation about it in a more pleasant way. Of course, those schools can't stay closed. There's just a compulsory education. Those schools need to be open at some point. I don't have time to decide if that's after two or three days. The information I have is that people tend to say: let's look at it for a few days. There are 6,000 primary schools in the Netherlands. There are now about 30 in West Brabant who have said so, and some others elsewhere in the country. The picture is now that the majority of Dutch primary schools are opening. That image may change, of course, but this is the stand now, on Thursday afternoon. People tend to say: let's see if there's something specific in West Brabant that doesn't make it happen there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u148	I can imagine that there could be a lot of problems solved with customization, space and one more day. Let me say, however, that I am surprised that such an early decision was taken that was not entirely consistent and consistent either. Primary schools closed, but childcare opened. If something is safe, it is safe for everyone; if it is not safe, it is not safe for everyone. So I'm surprised at this. Again, this really has to go through the inspection. I know you don't have to jump right on top of it, but I'd like to express the surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u149	I actually sympathize with Mr Segers. We're just in such a weird time right now. The question is whether if there really is a big concern or if it takes a little more time to settle it, you need to jump right on top. Or do you say something slack, but fast? That can't be endless, because in the end those schools must also be open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u150	I do not know if the Prime Minister has finished answering to education, but I had also asked him about the report of the Young Think tank Corona crisis, led by the Youth Platform of the ESC. There are a lot of concrete recommendations in it when it comes to cross-cutting the corona crisis. How can you ensure that the younger generation does not suffer from this crisis? I would ask the Prime Minister to include this report in how Corona policy is handled in the coming months, but certainly also in the National Action Plan against learning and study delays. There are a few very concrete things that I think we can start with, such as putting School TV and YouTube with the best teachers in the Netherlands, who are already offering online lessons, because we know that secondary education and other institutions are not yet fully open. I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to a second specific point. We have The Child Phone, which we know is very busy, but we don't actually have a youth phone. Many young people with problems have nowhere to go. Previously, at the request of the SGP, the support at De Kindertelephone and 113 has already been extended. Could the cabinet also see if, specifically for the age of 12 to 20, there could be any additional support of that kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u151	That last point is according to our distribution with Hugo de Jonge. So you'll get an answer to that. With regard to the first part, I myself received that report from the ESC, in the proper Chamber which has now been converted into a studio. Unfortunately, the meeting tables are no longer needed there. It's a very beautiful and insane initiative. In the evening, the chairman was also at Jinek or Op1 on television and defended it very well. I'm sure we're gonna respond to that in great detail. That also fits with my call for a revolution towards young people in May last year. You can see that it's very difficult for you.I think so too.But please think with me and then come up with as many ideas as possible that we don't have to carry out, but that you can immediately turn into action. That is what is in it, but also a number of things that you cannot ask young people to carry out themselves, because they ask for money or political choices that we have to make. I'm really impressed. There's been input from I don't know how many people. Very specific about school TV. We also discussed this in the previous debate. I thought I was talking to Pieter Heerma about Zapp and Schooltv, where a lot is already happening. I also said this at the time, but I would like to repeat that in the next stand-of-business letter from Arie Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education, there is a more detailed explanation of this and what initiatives and programmes have been taken on the various channels. Zapp and Schooltv have modified their programming. You can now also see that teachers of the Teachers' Collective are making instructional videos about effective distance learning, but also about advising group 8 students promisingly by primary schools. Of course, the fact that advice is different this time is a major concern. Of course, these lessons can never replace the usual lessons, but fortunately they start again in primary schools. Anyway, he'll come back to that. At the point of The Child's Phone Hugo de Jonge returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u152	Back to the schools, because that really doesn't bother me at all. I would like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the fact that these schools have had to decide that they cannot be opened safely. My main concern is what the Prime Minister, the Cabinet, is going to do to help those schools open up safely? I'm not here to send the Education Inspectorate in. Those schools want nothing more than open, but they feel abandoned, because it can't be safe. They were robbed by the decision. So what are the Prime Minister and the Cabinet going to do to help those schools open up safely? That's what we all want in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u153	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, They couldn't have been mugged. We have been working with each other in the Netherlands for weeks about the fact that we want the schools to open. But we had one concern, namely: can it be within the latest insights about the spread of the English virus? The conclusion is now: yes, there is a risk, but that is limited. It's not zero, but it's limited. The old virus wasn't zero either, so it's possible. But it's not like those schools suddenly get kissed awake. They know that and they want to get to work. By far the majority of primary schools I think all of them want to open as soon as possible. Then there are still concerns. I haven't exactly figured out why those 30 schools in West Brabant aren't opening yet. Of course, that's something OCW is doing. I'd like to check that out, if Mrs Ploumen wishes. But, of course, there are many possibilities for advice. When the education inspection comes along, not to impose fines, but to talk, it is precisely to look: what can we do together to make it possible for that school to open, and where is your concern? The GGD has those schools, special school clubs, now in all GGD regions, for that BCO research, but there schools can also go for broader advice they ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u154	In the second term, I would like to hear what the cabinet and the Prime Minister are going to do, especially for these schools. I ask this partly in view of the messy way in which the message that the schools could open has been given. So please give me a more detailed answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u155	It's okay with me, but what's so messy about it? We asked the OMT, can they open? The OMT comes up with some strict conditions, what you have to do and what you could do. We take it over and the schools now translate it into protocols. There's nothing messy about that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u156	Exactly at this point I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u157	I see the Interrupt Microphone isn't working. Mr. Kuzu, take the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u158	Then you made two dirty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u159	It'll just cost you two wipes! During my first term, I also asked for this issue to be taken into account. Because not only many schools, but also parents and teachers, are worried about what is coming to them now. And when we look at other countries, for example, we see that there are extensive protocols in the United States, where schools are really being given handles. This is done at national level; that is where the RIVM of the United States does it. When I look at the RIVM website in the Netherlands, I don't see any protocol, no hand-out, no directive, except one on hygiene measures and infection prevention measures from 2016. Is it not now an idea to ask RIVM to draw up a directive for this, a protocol, a hand-out so that schools can work with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u160	The good news is that's what happened. Apparently that's not on that website; I don't know. But it happened. The OMT has said exactly: what are the preconditions, just like with click-and-collect, which could be safe? What are these, noting that in itself the distribution is limited? This is not zero, but does limit the conditions under which this could be safe? I have appointed them, both the mandatory and the more advisory conditions, also depending on the school itself. This has been translated into a service document by the Ministry, which is now translated into protocols. This is what the PO Council and the other trade unions and trade unions are doing. So that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u161	Here is a fragmented picture, because just now it was the GGD, now it is the PO Council and the VO Council. All sorts of things have to be pulled together. When I look at the website of the RIVM I really see hundreds of documents, about everything and everything. But just when we come up with the news that the schools, the primary schools, can be re-opened, I don't see any document on the RIVM website. So I would ask the Prime Minister to at least consult with RIVM to put that on the website as soon as possible and to communicate proactively to schools, parents and teachers who are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u162	I don't think RIVM has a special role in that. I'll check that again. The service document of OCW is available to everyone, as well as the protocols that are created. I think this has been a fairly ordered process. I would like to take responsibility for unordered processes; this happens a few times. But I think it's pretty organized here. We ask the OMT a number of times: Is it possible? The OMT has now said, on the basis of the latest insights on the spread of the English virus, that it is possible, but there are a number of preconditions. That was last Tuesday. Then there's a service document on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u163	There's a call for communication to the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u164	Yeah, but the schools have all that communication. They get both the service document, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u165	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u166	I'm just looking for what I can still make Mr Kuzu happy with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u167	Well, that's very clear and very explicit. Because all these protocols and all these consultations could have been set in motion. But the end result must of course be that it is communicated via an official channel, namely the RIVM website, where there are really hundreds of documents about all kinds of facilities, all kinds of guidelines and all kinds of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u168	That's what happened. OCW sent that to the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u169	I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister again. The question mark in this is the website of the RIVM. It contains all the public sector information on the corona measures. Just communicate that clearly through the RIVM, which contains all the other information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u170	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u171	We'll see if this has any added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u172	The Prime Minister is very good at avoiding certain answers, but it is just a very clear question. Make sure it's published where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u173	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u174	Thanks for the compliment, but I didn't try to avoid anything here. I'm just trying to answer. I'm really looking for where we disagree, because otherwise we're fighting while we're on the same page. The Ministry makes service documents. They go to the schools. What more do we want? The trade councils then start working on it to convert it into protocols. That's how it goes. I can't see if the RIVM website has any added value in that. Maybe you can click on it or something else. We'll check it out. But the RIVM website is not the source document.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u175	I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u176	The source document is the communication of OCW with the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u177	I think you're coming almost naturally to the point of communication now, because I'm keeping the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u178	Exactly, that's exactly the next point. In the letter we included a number of things about that point. From research we know that the familiarity of the basic rules is great. Compliance is also high, but can always be improved. That is why good and up-to-date communication is of great importance. Mr Heerma has already referred to it both from the Empire, together with all our partners, as well as from municipalities and the business community. That's why we're gonna do a few things. This is described in the letter of inquiry, but I would like to add a few more things. Firstly, it is a comprehensive strategy for behavioral support and communication aimed at making desirable behaviour practical. Then, for example, it is also about things like adjustments in the physical environment. Think of what happens in many places with regard to one-way traffic in shopping streets. It is also about supporting households that have to be quarantined and promoting strategies to work at home. You have seen the letter from Wouter Koolmees, with the execution of three chamber motions on that point. Secondly, it concerns the task force with behavioral experts and people who know something about communication. They're people from parties in practice. It concerns, for example, retail trade, sports associations and so on. It is also about public sectors, such as the police and so on. They are all asked to help make this possible, so that communication can take place across a broad front. I would like to say this in addition to what is described in the letter. Then there was the question: why are the motions not carried out to increase the salary of the care staff? Strictly speaking, that motion doesn't demand that. The motion asks to come up with a plan for structural valuation of caregivers... No, I'll be right there! I know it's more than that, but I thought I should be precise, too. The motion calls for a plan for structural valuation for caregivers, including better working conditions and a better salary. That's right, it's also about pay. That's very clear. But then you talk about a lot of money. This also raises issues of coverage, because investing in better salaries for care workers..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Do we do that in education, the police, or are we going to impose burdens on citizens or businesses? These are really issues that cannot be answered by a outgoing cabinet, a outgoing cabinet. That is certainly not possible if we know that we will have elections in a few weeks and then a formation, where parties are trying to form a new cabinet. In addition, there is the Marijnissen/Asscher motion. On this basis, we asked the Economic and Social Committee to deliver an opinion on the issue of care personnel by 1 April at the latest. That's exactly the time when the new Chamber is convening at the end of March, and the formation is really starting. So that's another element. That is why we have decided to leave this to another cabinet. If this cabinet is going to spend billions more and make choices about where we're going to cut back or what burdens we're going to weigh... The latter seems quite unwise to me in a crisis, and so does the former. That sounds like something for the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u179	Did you have all the points with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u180	If you want all the questions answered, then perhaps the two questions on economics are final. I would like to make a commitment to Mr Dijkhoff on the guarantee fund for events. He asked, "Can't it be a month earlier?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr Dijkhoff is not here, but he will be here shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u182	We'll look into that. I've been in contact with Bas van 't Wout, the Minister of Economic Affairs. We will send a letter to see what its implications are. So I can't promise it right now, but we come with a letter from the cabinet, from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Then I'll go to the catering business. In practice, in many cases, the subsidy of continuous costs is already very close to 100%, or even above that, due to the increases of both the TVL and the NOW, to 85%. Then, of course, there are entrepreneurs who do all kinds of things themselves to allow for additional cost savings, such as saving on fixed charges. It also looks at what is possible in the chain. Think about the landlords. Of course, they are also starting new initiatives, such as delivery. This means that they are also reaping the benefits of this. Consequently, the reduction of fixed charges does not lead to a lower subsidy. As a result, you actually see that in many cases the rate of compensation in practice is above or around 100%. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u183	You won't be surprised that my point is about care salaries. I think this is a shameless thing to do. One. It has been widely said that it must not just be applause and structural appreciation. Two. We know that this year's salary increase room is less than it was last year. So if we don't do something, caregivers won't make any progress compared to last year. Three. There's a huge staff shortage. So we will have to do everything we can to fill these vacancies as quickly as possible. That's why we can't wait. Four. There is a widely accepted proposal here in the House of Representatives. I told you. Only the Prime Minister's Party and Minister De Jonge's Party did not support it. For the rest, the entire House of Representatives says that these salaries need to be raised. We're spending billions here in this crisis. That's right. Those are billions to keep businesses and jobs going. The question has never been asked: what exactly is the coverage? That question never came up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u184	What is your question, Mrs Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u185	Then it's said that we're raising public debt. We all agreed, because a majority of the House of Representatives wanted it. I'm asking this cabinet to do whatever this Chamber wants. That is a structural increase in the salary of people working in health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u186	The government has kept the frameworks for structural expenditure. However, we have made possible a very large one-off package of expenditure to combat the crisis. That's what's needed. Meanwhile, the counter stands somewhere between 60 and 70 billion and the government debt runs towards 60% or even something on it. That's all very well to do. Luckily, we didn't eat the apple for thirst when we didn't need it. That's why we've got it now. The bags are deep. But those are one-off expenses. Mrs Marijnissen wants a structural salary increase. She doesn't talk about a bonus. We already did, last year and this year. We're talking about a structural salary increase here. You're gonna talk about big money right now. There are 1.3 million people working in healthcare, so you talk about very big money. If that's what you want... I understand that political choice. I also understand that there is probably a basis for this. We will wait for the SER's research and that you say with each other, also broader politically and perhaps even including the CDA and the VVD, that there is a good argument for this on parts or on a wider front. Then that really requires a different consideration. That's where you're gonna find that structural money. Then in life there are only two buttons, namely reducing other expenditure or increasing government revenue by levying additional taxes. It seems to me illusory that a cabinet that has resigned is still doing so. The cabinet actually has only one task, namely missionary handling the terrible events surrounding the childcare allowance plus the corona crisis, but it also does all the other things and preparing the elections. I don't think it's fair. You can't ask a outgoing cabinet to do that. Besides, you don't get along politically with each other. That really is a matter for the formation table. That starts in six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u187	You know what's unfair? That's asking the caregivers to get back to the front of the third wave to take the hits. That's not fair. Sending them into the woods with applause and a one-time bonus isn't fair. The prime minister shouldn't come in with a commission. Because what exactly is this committee going to investigate? We all know that it's the people in the workplace in the care that deserve that salary increase and that it has to go there? We have made countless proposals here for cover. If the Prime Minister wants cover, he can have it. The cabinet itself proposed an investment discount for companies, a tax advantage. We wouldn't do that. Of that money, you could pay the salary increase in care. Then the Prime Minister will have his cover. But even if the Prime Minister said, I don't want to do anything structural... Once again, the Cabinet is a missionary, but the Chamber is not. The Chamber has decided this, the Chamber wants this. Even if the Prime Minister said so, let's at least do it for the coming year. We all know: if we are going to wait for a committee that will not be ready until April, then we still need to be formed. We know that the wage room is now lower, again, than it was last year. If we don't do something, then that salary improvement for care workers just isn't in it. I ask the Prime Minister to at least say that we are going to settle this for the coming year. If he thinks he can do that in his missionary status, let's at least do that. Then, after 17 March, we arrange for the formation to become structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u188	We're all, I think, making sure that our people in care get paid well. We all have the greatest respect for them. There we do not have to fight each other, to fight each other or to do more than the other. We all do. We agree on that. It is important to look at the figures here. You will see that over the period 2018 to 2020, which is totally within this cabinet period, government spending on working conditions has increased by 5 billion. For 2021, an additional 1 billion will be added. That's one. Over the last many years, the average increase in salaries is 2.75% per year. That's market-based. In the years 2020 and 2021, collective agreements in the care sector increase between 3% and 5%. These are, in themselves, very reasonable increases. Everyone, of course, allows the people on top of that a further increase. I understand that, but you have to look again at what that means in relation to police and education salaries and so on, and what space there is. My only argument here is that an uncovered motion... That was this: an uncovered motion. Mrs Marijnissen wears cover, but she illustrates the problem. This coverage illustrates the problem, namely that the SP seats are for that and perhaps some other seats, but also many seats are not. I really don't think it's reasonable for a missionary cabinet to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u189	Mrs Marijnissen, and it also applies to the Prime Minister. This discussion has really been held very often. I hear the same arguments. So a short question, Mrs Marijnissen, and a short response to this. I also see Mr Klaver standing. I notice that this point always comes back to the corona debates, so at some point...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u190	Yeah, but not from my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u191	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u192	I never brought it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u193	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u194	That's right, Mr. Chairman. But the difference is that there is now a proposal adopted by the majority of the Chamber. That's really the difference from all the other times. You are right: we have talked about this many times. But now the Chamber is clear. Once again, the cabinet is decommissioned, but the Chamber is not, and the majority of the Chamber wants it to be. I really think it's a weakness offer from the Prime Minister that he's reading some figures that we've heard here ten times. But he doesn't go into what I'm saying, namely that this year's room for wage improvement is lower than it has been in the past year. So if we don't do something, then those caregivers won't make any progress. Of course, we have to do something about the salaries in the police and, of course, we have to do something about the salaries in education, if you will. But the motion asks: come up with a plan to ensure that our caregivers receive more structural appreciation. Even the cabinet refuses to do so. I am making a point of that, because that is what a majority of this Chamber wants. I call once again on the Cabinet and the Prime Minister to simply implement our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u195	I would really like to say the following in my reply. First of all, and I believe that we agree on that. If you ask the people in the care "what do you think is important": yes, the salary, but also a lot of other things about autonomy, education, control, also "where do I stand to work today." The cabinet has taken a whole package of measures and has also made money available for them. This has been dealt with here in the General Reviews and in the VWS budget. The first thing we need to do is to do it all. The second is that we did not ask the Economic and Social Council to deliver the opinion on 1 April for nothing. The formation begins... Elections are in six weeks, and the new Chamber will be convening in eight weeks. Then we'll see which parties are at the formation table. I can just imagine that they will give it a high priority to put this motion on top of the pile. Again, I'm not ruling out for my own party either... I cannot speak for the CDA, but I suspect that I am not very far off when I say: this is a real debate to have, but in a balance with all the other priorities. It's big money, it's billions. You cannot now ask a cabinet that no longer has a coalition behind it to spend those billions without knowing where you are raising taxes; there is no one for that now, in a crisis, and other parties at all. Nor can you ask for cuts now, because that is also very unwise in a crisis. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u196	Thank you. I think you've answered all the questions. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes. Meanwhile, there can be a little cleaning and then the Minister of VWS can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u197	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of all matters has already answered quite a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u199	Yeah, I noticed that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u200	With that, I could go through the questions a little faster. I'll pick it up at the vaccination. I'll start with a block of vaccinating. Then I come to the roadmap, the scenarios and the measures, including the accompanying measures that we have to take, and finally some other questions. First of all, vaccinate. The point of speed is explained: we started a bit slower and are now walking in. In particular, we are doing so by accelerating the removal of stocks. We've already made some adjustments. Initially we already had 100% in stock for the second prick when putting the first prick. We have changed that to 50%, and that allowed us to apply gears that have resulted in results this week. But we want to go even further into that. Mr Segers asks whether this is actually medically justified. That's a fair question. First you see if that's possible in logistics. I want to be honest with you, that's not without risk, because if a truck doesn't show up and it doesn't show up again next week, you've got five days of poke. Then you may have to cancel hundreds of thousands of appointments for the week after. That's possible; that's very annoying. If that is the first shot, then it is particularly annoying in logistics. If that's the second shot, you're really starting to get off the label. That is not immediately irresponsible. Only, we don't want to stay in those six weeks for nothing in terms of puncture interval. So it's not unsafe and it's not that the effectiveness goes down completely, but of course that puncture interval is not for nothing at those six weeks. That is why we say: we really want to keep that five-day supply. That has actually just been done on the basis of the experiences of the last few weeks. We have seen adjustments down quite regularly, also from BioNTech/Pfizer for example, which in itself has just delivered fine and also delivered first. And yet there were minor adjustments to that. That is not surprising either, because they keep zero stock at the factory in Puurs. That means you have to keep some of a buffer stock in your own country, but that buffer should be as small as possible. That is, I think, also the wish of the Chamber, that is everyone's wish. There has been an extra urgency, namely that British variant. So speed matters. Speed matters in the protection, and we try to use the maximum speed that is still more justified. Then there's the question about the production side. I get that question and the focus on it. But perhaps first the interruptions on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u201	I want you to finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u202	Oh, excuse me. But that's a bit...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u203	Is this done yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u204	As far as the prick speed and the supplies are concerned, that's it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u205	But you might have a few more questions about vaccinations...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u206	I can do that. You're the boss here. Then I'm gonna do all the questions about vaccination, but I guess I'll be busy for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u207	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u208	Okay, fine. The gear. Where's the real gear? Because I understand all these desires to accelerate and I also see all the suggestions in the newspaper: you have to deploy the army and you have to prick 24 hours a day. So we are already doing that, but you must have enough vaccines to be able to prick 24 hours a day. I understand all these desires for acceleration, but they're not so much in the operation. Anything we can do in surgery, we're already doing. In addition, as the Prime Minister has already explained, we allow ourselves to be assisted by everyone who knows it. But the bottleneck is of course just in the delivery; you could say: in the security of delivery, in the delivery speed. What's that got to do with anything? With the production. Actually, you'd do anything to speed up that production. I need to go back in time and explain that further. For us, for my colleague in Germany, my colleague in France and my colleague in Italy, this was actually the starting point for us last year, together with the four of us. After all, we saw at that time that among other things our production sites......................................................................................................................................................................................... The UK was faster and Asian countries were faster. We were afraid that all our production sites would be contracted by suppliers supplying to other continents, while production takes place in Europe. That is, of course, indigestible. We then speeded up the speed with which Europe would start with its own purchasing or purchasing policy. That's when the four of us started that Vaccine Alliance. This has also led to an acceleration on the European side. They then did, I think, quite accurately. They may have done a little longer on the negotiations than, for example, the UK or the United States, but you could see in it that Europe then contracted the supplier, you could say: the vaccine developer, who in turn made arrangements with production sites. The production sites themselves are therefore not contracted by the European Commission. What might be interesting is that I hear that in Mrs Marijnissen's suggestion, but also in Mr Dijkhoff's suggestion and Mr Heerma's suggestion, the question is whether you could look on the production side to see if there is any acceleration, because that is what is really going to get us something. Yes, I would very much like to look at that with a view to that speed, but also because there is an occasional supply coming in from the Dutch industry. Of course, we have a decent chemical industry of which I cannot properly assess whether it could actually be an offer. But perhaps it is interesting to use production lines from other industries now for vaccine development. That is already happening between the pharmaceutical industry and one another. You can see Bayer's offering. You can see that Sanofi, which is not yet in a position to supply itself, is offering itself to other companies. So, in the pharmaceutical industry within Europe, you see cooperation over competition. I think that's very nice, but I think that could be wider. So I would really like to pick up that suggestion and see what can be done in the acceleration by bringing supply and demand together on the production side. I don't know if that could lead to acceleration in Q2, in the second quarter, but imagine if it didn't. Then it may not necessarily be a huge acceleration for the Netherlands, but then it is a huge acceleration for the rest of the world. So let's do it. Let us take advantage of all the opportunities that exist to make the most of it in order to accelerate production as well. So I'd like to start with that suggestion. Mr Segers asked if the cabinet would encourage the idea of broad sharing of knowledge about vaccines and patents. That was also a question from Mrs Marijnissen. The answer is: yes, we already do. We're in on that Patent Pool. We just didn't put that on par with contracting suppliers, because otherwise we'd cut ourselves a little bit. Then maybe we'd get in the back of the line. That was the most important thing about the purchase. Now I'm going into the target groups. I think that's where the most complicated discussion is. A number of questions come together, such as Mr Wilders' question. Admittedly, it is consistent from Mr Wilders that he says that you should be the first to do the most vulnerable elderly, the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them. That has actually been our strategy from the Health Council's recommendation of 19 November. I think it would be a good idea to go back to that, because then I would be better able to explain what is going on with those target groups and also with the long-term care staff; I know that you have all had worried letters about this, and I understand that too. The Health Council's opinion then focused on a number of strategies. One. You protect the most vulnerable people and the people who take care of them. That's what you do to prevent illness and mortality and make health gains. That is the first strategy the Health Council has proposed. Two. You're betting on the fastest spreaders. That could have been a second strategy, if we were not to know to what extent vaccines are preventing that spread. So that is not an accurate strategy right now. The third is the maintenance of vital processes, preventing vital processes in society from falling out. This can indeed be part of the strategy at a certain stage. By the way, vaccinate emergency care and covid beds on acute care in hospitals could be seen as part of that strategy. But our main strategy, which we have always chosen, is to combat disease and mortality. That remains the main strategy. I see here and there about our vaccination policy, which states that the strategy is constantly changing. No, the strategy has always been to protect the most vulnerable people. Gradually the epidemic, of course, you still have new choices to make. An example of this is AstraZeneca. That is in line with the discussion that has been taking place here. Mr. Jetten said: shouldn't you be vaccinating the men on the overweight ic's? Could you make another choice? But still do you rationalise that choice in the sense of combating disease and mortality: what is the fastest way to combat disease and mortality? At AstraZeneca we face a complicated choice. The Health Council is coming today with an opinion on AstraZeneca. Of course, the Health Council is our anchor when it comes to vaccination, where the OMT is our anchor in the epidemiological side of the crisis response. The first assessment the Health Council will make is: for which target group is this vaccine suitable? For example, the Health Council looks at age. Age is an important factor. It may well be that the Health Council says that AstraZeneca is very employable for up to 65 years. The follow-up question is then what choice you have to make if AstraZeneca is suitable for that target group. We made the choice at the time to use BioNTech/Pfizer as much as possible for the elderly, because it is very effective. We then told the employees in long-term care that we are keeping the new people who have not yet been invited waiting for AstraZeneca. But if the Health Council says that AstraZeneca is very suitable for 60-65 and has the most health benefits, you can't ignore that point. So we have to choose from the scenarios that I also described in the letter. Are you doing AstraZeneca for 60- to 65-year-olds? Do you do AstraZeneca for the employees in long-term care, as you said? Or do you do a combination of those two? We will always argue that from the strategy we have chosen, protecting the most vulnerable people. That also answers Mr Segers' and Mrs Sazias' questions. Then there was the question of when the neighborhood care could be vaccinated. Well, that depends on that. That's why I haven't sent any modification of that album, because the choice we will make for AstraZeneca will have an influence on this too. Why not vaccinate the specific group of 60-plus obese men as soon as possible, Mr Van Haga asks. Because it's harder to keep a separate list of them. If we vaccinate the group between 60 and 65, we'll just choose the 60- to 65-year-olds. Or it should be about very obese men who are also under specialist treatment. But not everyone who's overweight is on a list that you can trace. I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u209	No, Mr. Van Haga, let's finish this first. Then I have Mr Segers first and then you are you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u210	Yeah, I have some other questions about vaccination. Mrs Sazias asks if heaters can be placed at those vaccination sites. People who are already at age tend to be very on time. I have that tendency a little less myself. But that must of course be taken into account. That wasn't a good picture. Of course, the GGD feels the same way. So they're definitely gonna do that. There are also waiting areas, but if they are even full, the people are outside. That's just gonna do the G.D.D.'s better. That's just necessary, because that wasn't a good picture yesterday. After vaccination, Mr Dijkhoff asks us to be protected forever, do we have to have a new shot every year, or is that only for the vulnerable, and how do we organise it? That is a very fair question. Frankly, we just don't know enough about that at the moment. In our purchasing strategy, we have already purchased vaccines for the first quarter of 2022, at the moment around 10 million. That's what we're gonna keep doing. So we buy as if we just need vaccines again in the next year. Whether it will be, we don't know yet. Let's get these strategies worked out. I think it's from the Health Council, because that's the most appropriate club to do that. We'll have those strategies worked out looking at the next spring. An intermediate variant could also be that for the vaccines that have a less protective effect for the time being, you put a third needle in order to finish the protection properly. That's also a conceivable option, just like another vaccine. We'll take that into account, too. There are many choices to be made, which are never made in a normal vaccination campaign, but in this case might be very sensible. Then there was the question from the SGP on this subject, and the debate with Mr Wilders was also about a response to the Health Council and a vaccination certificate. That was also a question from DENK. Following an earlier debate on a possible indirect vaccination obligation, Mr Segers suggested that you really need to develop a framework for this. 'Cause, of course, that question comes up. You can't ignore that question or push it out for you. Of course that question comes up. There will be a time when part of society has not been vaccinated and part of society has not been vaccinated. How do you deal with that? The cabinet has been clear. We don't want a vaccination obligation. We also do not want an indirect vaccination obligation. But we cannot ignore the situation that part of society has not been vaccinated and part of society has not been vaccinated. And so we translated that Chambermove from then into an advisory request to the Health Council. The Health Council delivered its opinion today. The debate really deserves the peace needed to discuss it properly. The cabinet doesn't want to do that either. The cabinet simply won't choose a compulsive direction. Not at all, actually. At the same time, there will of course be a moment in the private sector when a restaurant says: I could be safe when the people in my restaurant have been vaccinated, and then I can just let go of the 1.5 meters, but if I have people who have been vaccinated and people who haven't been vaccinated inside, I'm not sure I can safely do that with so many people. That is a real question. A much more up-to-date question, also a question much more topical in time, might perhaps be, especially in southern European countries, which live like this on tourism: who are we going to let in for the summer season, just the people who have been vaccinated or not? It is not for nothing that this discussion has been brought to the table of the Heads of Government from southern Europe. I do not think that we are sufficiently equipped to have that discussion properly. I think that we really need to discuss this advice from the Health Council in a calm manner. I would like to ask you whether you are okay with the cabinet first coming up with a reaction, that we simply make that opinion with the cabinet response part of the debate here and that we then translate the outcome of that debate into a legislative proposal. For if we do not want it at all, for example, then it will have to be a legal ban on the use of vaccination certificates. In the meantime, the preparations we are making are just about the technical side of it. If we do, we do not want to waste any time in technical preparation. But once again, it is about legislation, and so it is up to the Chamber before any step is taken on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u211	Do you also have a deadline for such a cabinet response to the opinion of the Health Council to come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u212	Within a month, and I'm actually hoping by a week or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u213	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u214	With the vaccination questions, I was done here, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u215	Then I have Mr Segers, Mr Van Haga, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, and I saw Mr Jetten, just like Mr Kuzu. Short questions, I say. Then I'll start with you, Mr Segers. Give me a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u216	I'm gonna do my best. It's lavering between speed and care. That is exactly the dilemma the Minister is facing when it comes to vaccination. My question was prompted by the fact that my feeling was that there were two very sharp winds, namely stock management and the time between first and second shots. At the technical briefing Mr Van Delden said that there is also a third button that you can turn on, namely: later vaccinations you can also push back a bit. So my only concern is whether we're sure it's medically sound. Logistics can only say the medical advisors, the specialists and the GGD: this is justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u217	Logistics is my anchor the RIVM. RIVM has incredibly much expertise in the field of logistics and has flown in an incredible amount of expertise from outside. So my question to Jaap van Delden is: handle the maximum speed and the minimum stock that is just justified. There is endless modeling and this is considered just justified. That is, of course, a different consideration for each vaccine. The five days stock management with regard to the available stock applies to BioNTech/Pfizer and does not apply to Moderna at the moment; there will of course also be a similar arrangement at some point, but at the moment it is such small bits of Moderna, that we spray away. At Astra, deliveries are now very small. There's gonna be a few more later. I expect the interval to be around 12 weeks. Then who lives, who cares. So we're just gonna spray Astra out right now, too. We're gonna keep stock of that later, but not now. Logistics has the final word on that point, of course, under my responsibility. Medically speaking, the Health Council has the last word and we use the Health Council as anchor. There are many views about whether you can put the second shot much later. What the Health Council does, of course, is also to look up the space but simply within the space that the EEA and also the manufacturer offer and which is also supported by clinical data. In addition, week six is accounted for. In short, both are responsible. When's it gonna go wrong? If a factory doesn't deliver for a few weeks, it could go wrong, but for that reason keeping the stock as a starting point for what we had would have been safe but perhaps not responsible, given precisely the speed you need to book. So we're running a risk? The honest answer is yes; you are always at risk, either by being too careful or by being too careless. You're always at risk. Is the risk justified? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u218	Then there is my final question, because in the end that is implementation and I have to leave it there. Only, I want my concern expressed. If the Health Council knows about the logistical challenges and knows what the RIVM is saying about what is responsible and knows what the health risks are, then my question is whether the last advisory opinion should be reached there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u219	In the end, that is also a political-administrative decision, I think. So that's a decision I have to make. You have the logistical advice or at least the logistical test on the one hand, the RIVM. What is maximum achievable? I'm not going through that, because that seems very unwise to me. However, I need to be certain that we have pushed the final leaders at the RIVM to the maximum and they have again pushed all chain partners to the maximum to do the best we can to get rid of that stock as quickly as possible. Then there is the advisory role of the Health Council in my direction. I have both of them to weigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr Van Haga and otherwise I will go to Mr Klaver. So run!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u221	Yeah, I gotta come all the way from behind, of course. The minister says about vaccinating that this could not be done for people over 60 years of age who are overweight. Would you at least agree with me that if I could, it would be a huge relief from the ic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u222	Maybe about those target groups the following. This is a plea. I hear a lot more pleas and I actually think with all those pleas: yes, that's a really good idea. But we always choose in scarcity. You always have to assume that if you do one group, it means you don't do the other group. The Health Council is actually very clear from the beginning, and that is why we have embraced that strategy, namely: if you do the most vulnerable people first, that is the fastest way to reduce mortality and serious diseases and thus also the fastest way to remove the need to take measures that are so terribly restrictive. So that's actually a good strategy for everyone to implement. Now the men who populate the ic, if they were protected, would have taken a big step to protect them from a serious disease, but also to reduce the burden of care. And that also benefits other people who need that type of care. In short, I understand the plea very well. Do you currently have the numbers of vaccines for the 60- to 80-year-olds or for the 50- to 80-year-olds to protect that whole group? The answer to that question is no. We really choose in scarcity. And in there, you have to choose groups with a medical risk. People with severe obesity could be a medical risk group, but you must have registered it separately. And not all overweight men have separate registrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u223	I am pleased with this answer, because we are therefore restricting ourselves to the people who are vulnerable. This is a plea by Peter van der Voort, head of intensive care at the UMC Groningen. He says 72% of the people in intensive care are men, and 75% of them are extremely overweight. Of course it is not so easy to get these people out of the municipal basic administration, because your BMI is not mentioned in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u224	That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u225	But we could send them a letter: well, sir, you're over 60, you'd like to voluntarily check your BMI, and if your BMI is over 25, have a vaccination. In any case, we have already vaccinated most of the people who end up on the ic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u226	I understand that plea, not that. But right now it's such a choice in scarcity, that the first thing you always have to realize is that a choice for one group, a choice that goes at the expense of another group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u227	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u228	That's one. Two: registration is not a point to get over easily. Three: you can't just make a selection of fat men. There's no way to do that. I acknowledge to Mr Van Haga that in response to the Health Councils for medical risk groups, I expect to inform him in the near future how we will deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u229	I think that is a very good commitment. In any case, we note that most of this group is concerned and that it could actually provide relief. We have noticed that you are not prepared to scale the number of ic-beds. And when we look at this group of vulnerable, we see that most of it is male and overweight. I take this hand-out with all my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u230	I see Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Jetten, Mr Kuzu and then Mr Dijkhoff. I see that the latter wishes to join in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u231	Although I do not support Mr Van Haga's plea to do so, I should perhaps like to surprise him that we need to explain this correctly. This plea lives with a lot of people. It also has a certain charm and logic. We really need to explain why we just don't make this choice. In practical terms, it is possible. You can just set up a scale. You divide that weight by the square of your height and then you end up in that category to your fright. Or not. So it's possible. We can do this. People know for themselves whether they're overweight or not. And if you don't, it's easy to figure it out. I think we should not just say: it would be nice, but it is practically not feasible. We really need to explain why we don't make that choice. That seems legitimate to me, but we should not look for it in the practical sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u232	You're right. It has practical aspects, but even if I put them aside, it also has all kinds of ethical aspects, which we cannot ignore. For example, should you choose to vaccinate all men first and then the women, because men are at greater risk of getting onto the ic? It's an ethical question you're really not just out of. I wouldn't choose it. Then the principled side of lifestyle. We are usually very reluctant to link lifestyle and treatment in such a way that we end up in this type of choice. In addition, and that is, I think, the most decisive thing, is the scarcity here too. Could you, in the age group that is the court supplier for the ic, so to speak, with the current size of the numbers in which it is delivered, strike a dent in a packet of butter? The honest answer is just no. The group 60-65 years could be a different story, because of AstraZeneca. I'll get back to you on that. In this relationship, I will also come back to the advice of the Health Council on medical risks. A medical risk is among other things a high BMI, but then it is higher numbers. It's a BMI over 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u233	I would like to avoid a very precise discussion about the group that is the best. The starting points must be at the heart of the matter. We can ask the Health Council for an opinion. The starting point now is to prevent as many deaths as possible. Sensitively, that is something we all share, but a number of other considerations have been added. Doctors have said: should we increase the pressure on the ic's? That is another point of departure. Another starting point could be to increase young people's freedom of movement. I would like the Minister to give an overview of the mission he is going to give to the Health Council, and for what purposes. In my view, we should talk about the goals that we consider most important in society. This follows the implementation. I would then like to follow the Health Council. It seems that there is a social debate about groups, but it is actually about the goal that we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u234	Yeah, totally true. The cabinet described this very extensively in a letter dated 20 November in response to the Health Council opinion on the vaccination strategy of 19 November. That is actually still the same strategy, in the sense of the goal you are pursuing. That's the booking of health gains. The point is that health gains books are related to the state of the economy. For example, the need to apply an acceleration to older people is indeed related to the acceleration with which the virus resides on Dutch soil. The need to look at the group of 60- to 65-year-olds has to do with the applicability of Astra in that group. In short, what we want as a goal, base or anchor is to book as much health gains as possible. With every change in the epidemic, in the type of delivery, or in the target group advice, we need to see what that means within that strategy. Any choice made by the cabinet at that time must be justified in the light of the objectives we are pursuing. I very much agree with Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u235	Then I think we agree on something that wasn't necessarily my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u236	That's nicely taken, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u237	Sure. I wouldn't want to flatten that out either. I know the November advice the Minister is talking about. My point is that, in the meantime, there has been a lot of discussion, including about the principles. Before you send the Health Council back on the road to give a sound advice, it would be good if there had been a political and social discussion about this. You can reconfirm what we did then, and that's what the minister is doing here. I would encourage him to re-write a reflection on this and to share it with the Chamber, so that there will be a debate on it and we will discuss these objectives with each other. Then that goes to the Health Council. There comes an opinion, which we can support with each other. What the Minister says is that we still support the opinion of 20 November. That also makes sense, because nothing else has come. I'm not saying I'm gonna change my mind, but I think it's time to rebalance those goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u238	At the level of the goal, namely to achieve as much health gains as possible as the core of the strategy, nothing has changed. Situationally, however, changes the choice you make per vaccine and per target group in the light of that goal. That's what I'm trying to explain when it comes to AstraZeneca, for example. If AstraZeneca works for 60- to 65-year-olds, you may be able to make a good health gain along that road, given the numbers. Then it is up to the Health Council to advise us on this and to choose and answer to the cabinet. We always do this in the light of the strategy we have chosen, namely to achieve as much health benefits as possible. Mr Klaver asks: would you describe the choices made or still to be made in a reflection on the strategy you have chosen, and is that also given the current state of the epidemic still the right choice? I'd love to make that reflection, but let me give you an example of AstraZeneca: I expect the target group advice from the Health Council today. I expect to make a choice tomorrow. And I expect to start with that next week. So a lot of time for that reflection is not there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u239	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u240	Finally. I'm gonna try one more time anyway. As much health gain as possible is a goal. There are also doctors who say: focus now on the people who come to the ICUs. We have to try to approach them first, because we want to avoid that ic. But there is also a social debate that says: let's vaccinate young people first, because we want to give them the most freedom. My question is to reflect on all these social goals that are now being discussed, to come back to the Chamber and to have a debate on them. From there, we can have the debate much better, otherwise it will come back to men with a BMI of 40+ and all other different groups. I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u241	I'd be happy to say so. But I would also like to be clear that further articulation of that strategy will be to obtain as much health benefits as possible and that the Health Council is absolutely free to advise us. So it's not an order for the Health Council to move in a particular direction. The first example mentioned by Mr Klaver is precisely an example of achieving as much health benefits as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u242	I would like to talk about progress. The Health Council is coming up with an opinion. On that, and on all the questions that have been asked, there will be a cabinet response. It's being sent to the chamber. Is that what you're trying to say here? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna get a repeat. You're shaking from no, but we have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u243	I'm willing to move on, too. And if we don't understand each other, I can ask you a fourth time. But as far as the conclusion you are drawing is concerned, I believe that the Minister and I came together there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u244	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u245	Maybe it didn't seem like it, but it really was. I know it's special, but it happened. It's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u246	You should do that more often. Come on! Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u247	Sure, but my point is that we talked about the targets in advance, so before the Health Council comes forward with it. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u248	Sure, that's what we're gonna do. The only thing I can't wait for that reflection on Astra. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u249	Good. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u250	Nice reflection, good reflection. At the same time, however, we are all hearing the concerns of, for example, the district nurses group. They say: is it not true that, by constantly debating it, it is completely unclear to us when we are next? I thought there was a certain arrangement. Isn't there a specific date on which it is our turn? Is that gonna slide again? What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u251	That is a very fair question. I also understand that question from the district nurses very well. At the same time, I have said from day one that we will have to remain agile, because we do not know exactly which target groups the vaccines that come in are suitable for and because we do not know exactly what numbers they come in. That combination makes you have to make choices over and over again. The Health Council advises on which choices are most sensible from a health perspective. With such advice, I must make a sensible decision and answer to you. In the letter I wrote that a number of scenarios are conceivable. Or the Health Council says we should use Astra for 60- to 65-year-olds. Or the Health Council says that's not wise to do. That does indeed make you the choice: whether or not to vaccinate the 60- to 65-year-olds with AstraZeneca? With this scarcity, you can never make a free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u252	That is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u253	Always the choice for one will be a choice at the expense of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u254	We're gonna wait and see. I have one other question about the ethical and legal considerations surrounding the vaccination of the Health Council. We just talked about that. The Minister will be here in a few weeks with a response. But earlier this week it was also about test evidence, about which there are similar questions. I assume that's what it's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u255	Yes, a cabinet response and a thorough dispute here in the Chamber and then legislation to anchor the outcome of the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u256	Mr. Jetten. Sorry, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u257	Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. The Minister just said with understanding that a restaurant entrepreneur can indeed think that it is useful to add that condition to it in order to be able to open up again. But that is not what the Minister is saying: in that case, is it simply on the agenda? It was an example, in which all kinds of questions arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u258	Exactly, that's always the case with examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u259	If a restaurant owner would do that now, he only has 85-plussers in his restaurant. That's an exquisite target group, but I don't know if you can run a restaurant with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u260	I have two more points. First of all, the promise made by the Minister to Mr Van Haga. I'm glad he wants to look at that despite all the obstacles. I would like to ask him about vaccination of obese men in a certain age group. The various ic-doctors from Groningen, but also from Veldhoven, say: it matters up to 50% of the ic-recordings. That's about 16,000 ic-treated days. This will make room for 1,000 new difficult surgeries. I would like to ask the Minister whether that claim could be tested, because it also helps to make a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u261	Yeah, sure. That is a health gain, and that fits in with the strategy. So that's health gain that you could then book, because you're offering more space for other types of operations. But whether you really are, you will have to approach numerically and modelly, also given the scarcity. For it will be, if you can do the 50 to 70-year-olds in one go; then so be it. But if you can't do that, just given the scarcity, then you can better use the much scarcer vaccines in another group, which you can protect in its completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u262	I fully agree with the Minister: the stock ultimately determines what we can do. But it's nice if we can see this in the modeling. I shall now turn to the point made by Mr Van Der Staaij. I think it's a very well-balanced opinion from the Health Council on vaccination certificates. There are also a lot of guarantees in it. I am glad that the cabinet will also take a moment to respond carefully. There's one point in it that I missed out on the advice of the Health Council. That is the question: to what extent are people who have been vaccinated still contagious? I think that is a rather crucial question before you can get into the stage where people with vaccination certificates can actually get more freedom. So I wanted to ask the Minister: is it possible to include this in the cabinet response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u263	Yes, it is, because that is definitely decisive. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u264	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u265	That's a nice little bridge to the next block. This is about the roadmap and about scenarios. We have a huge bay of uncertainty, in which we have to do our job. You'd like to see that different, but that's no different. In that uncertainty, you're trying to create a hold. That is the background to the road map. But it can never be seen as a law of Meden and Persians; it can never be seen as a kind of NS-trackbook, because that simply is not possible. I understand how frustrating that is. If you want to know when your business can be opened again, if you want to know when you can get a haircut again, you have people who need it, and I understand that very well. But we just can't, because we have a virus that's spreading faster and faster. We build immunity by natural means; we build immunity along the line of vaccination. But a very great unknown when building immunity through vaccination is still: to what extent does vaccination also inhibit transmission? One day you get a slightly more hopeful picture of that than the other day, and about different vaccines also different images. In fact, it's hard for us to make a statement on that. If it's all right, you saw the pictures this morning at Jaap van Dissel's presentation. There you can also see how big the difference is between whether or not the transmission per vaccine is, how big the difference is in the extent to which that third wave will come at us, how high that third wave will come and when it will come at us. And also the length of the lockdown we're in depends on it partly, and not entirely. Mr Segers says about this road map: he is a very creative person; in fact, you should think much more in scenarios. I agree with him. I'd like to pick up that glove and, given the uncertainties that there are, outline those scenarios as well, on the way to summer, on the way to autumn maybe, on the way to the third quarter. After all, we all feel that we have three tracks to go to the exit of the crisis. The first track is, of course, the adoption of measures; certainly in the short term these will have to be firm measures. Especially with those much more contagious variants that we have on Dutch soil, that will simply have to be firm measures. Let us not be under any illusions about that. Two. Through tests, access tests, you can make a lot of things possible again, which perhaps, given the epidemiological situation, are not possible, but which you still want to make possible. For that we do the field labs, and of course we continue with that. The third track is vaccination. That's the most important track, of course. Alone, at what rate? We are dependent on the volume of deliveries that come in and on the effectiveness of the vaccines that enter and on the effect of vaccination on transmission. The latter in particular is a very great unknown, which is incredibly decisive. That's just what you see in all the RIVM projections. Our perception of this is getting sharper, but we will indeed have to work with different scenarios there. I'd be happy to admit it. I therefore take Mr Dijkhoff's question with me. I had already predicted that it would not be the last update of the roadmap. Well, it's definitely not gonna be. Certainly not with Mr Dijkhoff's suggestion. He actually says: if you can take next steps on that road map, wouldn't it be better to take small steps within several sectors, rather than opening one sector and not the other? The sensible thing about that line would be to feel a little less of a lack of solidarity. If you're a catering boss and you see the Koopgutter full, you're thinking, why is she and we aren't? If you can take small steps in different sectors, it is better to explain this in terms of solidarity and better to share the pain. But it must all be possible in terms of movement. Of course you agree. We will see if we can make an adjustment to that. Mr Klaver asked the Prime Minister about higher education and MBO. That question actually comes along with that. No more physical education in the MBO and the H.O. is an increase within the fourth level of the Roadmap. We have said that when we take steps we first take those increases from the fourth level, when we can. So it's h.o. And the mbo walks with it. We are preparing for a situation that can make it safer with high-intensity testing. Strictly speaking, they may not be access tests, but one can test high frequency. Somewhere in time there could be a situation that could be more physical education possible by high-intensity testing. Maybe even at some point you can't say "too soon" in time given the vaccination rate, say: if you test very intensively at the entrance, then the 1.5 meters behind the gate can be released. We are far from there, but you have to prepare for that direction step by step. We can now say the following: the increases in higher education, MBO and vo are one of the increases in the fourth level of the roadmap that we want to let go step by step. We can't do that unless we can do it responsibly. Until then, it will be as follows: what you do about physical education, for example testing, then do so in combination with high-intensity testing, because then you will learn for the situation that we can make more physical education possible with high-intensity testing. Then there is the accompanying policy in the social and mental fields. You have people who suffer greatly from the virus itself, but you also have people who suffer from the measures against the virus. That is very unevenly distributed. Of course, with both of us, we have to do something. We are taking all these measures to combat the suffering of the virus, but we know that we are causing other sufferings, which we also have to deal with. We do so in the short term, by organising social support. We must, of course, do the same for the longer term. That's a little more about recovery. We are working on these two areas. There is much to ask what we do in terms of social and mental well-being. In addition to all kinds of campaigns and public actions undertaken by the Cabinet, we also have numerous support lines. Mr Jetten has specifically asked us how we are working on this. The advice of the Youth Think tank becomes part of a support plan for young people to give more mental support to young people. We take over the suggestion from the Think tank. I think I have also answered a question put by Mrs Ploumen. Mrs Ploumen asked for a delta plan. Now I'm a Zeeuw. However, there is only one Delta Plan. But we both want to work on a plan to support young people much more. This concerns not only the dampening and as much as possible of the damage caused by the current measures, but also the repair of the damage caused after the spice fumes of the crisis have been increased. Mr Blokhuis is working on this and we would like to come back to the Chamber on what we are doing in that context. Once again, there are the opinions cited by Mr Jetten. This concerns, for example, strengthening that listening line, supporting mental well-being in, for example, education, domestic violence and child abuse, but also the capacity of the youth ggz. Mr Klaver asked about the latter last week but also now. For example, we are actually building a comprehensive plan to support young people in order, once again, to mitigate the collateral damage caused by the current measures. We simply have to take these measures; that is inevitable. At the same time, we are looking at how we can start this recovery for the longer term. We know that otherwise young people will suffer for far too long from the measures we are taking now. Mrs Van Esch asks if I can add the protection and promotion of basic health to the Roadmap. Well, not so much on the road map itself, but this too is a flanking policy, and of course we do. The Roadmap is not an isolated instrument, and that accompanying policy focuses not only on the economic side, but also on the social side. On many fronts, proposals are now being worked out, not only in the field of mental health of young people, but also in the field of lifestyle. Mr Blokhuis is also working on this and we will come back to the Chamber on that. I think I have also answered Mrs Marijnissen's question. She mentions the youth workers and asks how we can invest extra in them. In the youth package we have already invested 13.5 million extra in youth work for the period January/June. Municipalities have indicated that it fits well with what they can put away in terms of numbers of youth workers they have. This means, for example, that they can extend the contract of existing youth workers. That's conceivable, that's possible. Together with the VNG and the social work, we are looking at how these youth workers can have the most impact in the neighbourhood. Mr Van der Staaij asks whether we can look at the approach to loneliness. Will the platform #Not only be involved? Yes, that platform is also involved in the development of that mental support plan for young people. I think that's how I answered the questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u266	Then I have Mrs Van Esch and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u267	The very short question would be: when will Mr Blokhuis come up with this information? There was just a huge talk about promoting health with vaccinations, but promoting health by moving more and eating healthier already has an effect on or not an ic intake within a few weeks. I can't wait to receive those plans from Blokhuis, because I don't think there's any time to waste. So I'm curious when they'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u268	That is the answer I must remain guilty of, but in the second term I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u269	I welcome the commitment that it will not only be involved in the youth initiatives. That has been said in response to a question by Mr Van der Staaij, which I have not been able to ask myself because of lack of time. I do welcome the commitment and I wanted to have said this. A very short question about the scenarios. They are coming and they are actually much more varied than scaling down on the road map. When can we expect these scenarios here? When are they gonna be on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u270	In any case, I am not going to go any longer than I can strictly say. I would like to say that they will be there in three weeks' time, because that is the deadline on which I will write the next letter. But there is still quite a lot of real unknown, for example about the level of protection of transmission and about the extent to which the transmission is inhibited by vaccines. I have to take a look at it. If we can make sense within a week or three, so that we can have that debate here, then I choose to do so. If I need a little longer, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u271	Thank you for the commitment, because that is indeed a very important debate. In any case, more will be sent than just the ICU admissions and hospitalizations. That was my question, too. I saw the VWS minister look a little skeptical when I said it, but my memory of this summer is that we sent mainly to it and that might have caused us to be too late. I see him nodding his head again and the story is more nuanced. But my appeal is therefore to start working with these scenarios, because it gives us more opportunities and at least allows a good debate with a broad balance of interests and all values.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u272	Let me give you a brief hint of the veil of that debate and the description of those scenarios. It is true that this roadmap and the whole range of measures is only one way to get through the crisis. In addition, we will have to pursue flanking policies to reduce the damage caused by the measures themselves. We are also working on access tests to make things possible again, even though this is not actually epidemiologically justified. What we also do is, of course, build up protection through vaccination. All these tracks will have to be followed at the same time and these scenarios will have to be related to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u273	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u274	However, as regards the functioning of the Roadmap and the scaling-down within that Roadmap, we have already foreseen the moment when some protection has been built up. We have said: every three weeks we ask the OMT once again for advice on the indicators, which actually require a set of measures. At some point there will be a different relationship between the number of people infected and the number of people who end up in a hospital. The numbers that are now consistent with each other will therefore change. Once every three weeks, the OMT advises on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u275	That was a tip from the veil, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u276	Yeah, you can figure out what the whole veil looks like!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u277	Well, a thick veil. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u278	Yeah, but still promising. One final question on this point. The advice takes place more broadly. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also participates and the other planning agencies, the SER. Is this scenario development indeed taking the broad advice out of the closet and talking to other advisors about it than the OMT?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u279	Sure. In addition, you have just ordered this scenario, so I must, of course, continue to do so, as well as in the development of the long-term plans, the accompanying policy and this road map, of course, involve the different perspectives. So the social economic perspective, the social social perspective, the enforcement perspective, the communication side. All these different perspectives count in making those plans. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna go ask the other one. I'm not going to call it "other" because that's disrespectful, but "other questions."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u280	I have another question about the block before that, about the vaccination strategy. All questions are important, but at least one question is very relevant to me. That's not when we start. That's pretty late. I don't think we'll start till next week with the elderly. My question is when we're done. I understand that this depends partly on when the minister gets what vaccines, but when are the most vulnerable people vaccinated, the people who are now on the ic or have the potential to go there, when will it be ready? When were these people vaccinated? I assume that your old vaccination strategy still applies to a large extent, although it has unfortunately been adjusted downwards for AstraZeneca. But for the rest, you don't give any signals that it's different. In part, it depends on the advice of the Health Council, I understand it all, but can you give the Netherlands a glimpse? Not in when you start and what you're going to do in the next few weeks, but in when we're done voluntarily vaccinating the most vulnerable people, which reduces the pressure on the ic's and we can get our freedom back largely?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u281	I can give part of the answer to that question, but only if I say first that that should never be a promise, because there are incredibly many uncertainties about it. For example, in the deliveries, in the vaccination rate or the willingness to be vaccinated. If it is very high, you do longer over the whole group; that makes sense. But if you look through your eye hairs at the numbers we have now, we think we can vaccinate the most vulnerable people in the first quarter. The people in the nursing homes, in the disability care institutions, the majority of the oldest elderly at home: of course we started with the 90-plussers and the 85-plussers. At the end of the week, the first 80-plussers will also be invited. You should have vaccinated them at the threshold of spring, as well as some of the people who take care of them. In the first quarter we unfortunately got a lot less, actually only a third of the AstraZeneca deliveries we would get. Probably, because before March we won't even know for sure. But with those deliveries, at the threshold of spring, you should be able to have vaccinated the most vulnerable people and a large proportion of the people who care for them. In addition, the second quarter now stands for over 20 million vaccines to be supplied. In addition, Janssen's vaccine, of which we as the Netherlands have ordered a lot, also in relation to other countries, requires only one shot for protection. So we assume that in the second quarter we can really do a very large group. How much depends on the delivery, but I think you should be able to have vaccinated all the groups from the Health Council recommendations for the summer anyway and that you should have made a start with the healthy people from 18 years to 60 years. That's why I think you can say with peace of mind that you've done the whole country on the threshold of autumn. In any case, before the summer, you have done all the groups of the Health Council that are at higher risk of serious illness or mortality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u282	The Minister therefore responds, without a firm promise: the beginning or the edges of spring. I think that would be March/April. Are the 60-plussers with comorbidity and the chronically ill of any age, above and below 60, a vulnerable group? Are those two groups included or will it be later when you take them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u283	Not the full group of 60-plussers. The Health Council is actually saying that it is increasingly convinced of the advice that has always been given, namely that age is actually the most important medical indication, with a number of small groups, by the way, where there is comorbidity, where this medical indication is even stronger. You could do that separately. But in fact it is said: age, age is the most predictive factor for disease and mortality. The whole group of 60-plussers can't, of course, just because of the numbers. If you're vaccinating from top to bottom, I think you could have done the 80-plussers on the threshold of spring, just because of the numbers, and maybe you could've already started with the 75-plussers. That's how you get more and more people with comorbidity. Besides, of course, the people who take care of them. That's actually how we go from top to bottom. And possibly I'll let you know if that's what the 60- to 65-year-olds like AstraZeneca prove to be suitable for this, according to the target group advice. So you actually get to the group that we can vaccinate, but we can never beat the speed of deliveries. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u284	I understand the latter, just one comment. You can't find those 80-plussers on the ICU right now. They're not even gonna be on the ICU. They die or in the nursing home if they get unexpected corona and don't clean it up, which of course we all hope for, or at home. So when it comes to removing the pressure on the ic's: the voluntary vaccination of those 80-plussers, it's good that it happens, because the longer people live, the better the problem doesn't solve. So you really need those 60-plussers for that, too. I understand your story of the 80-plus, but I still can't understand, although I really want us to finish quickly, that that problem will be solved at the beginning of spring if you don't take that group of 60-plussers who do end up on the ice, as opposed to those 80-plussers who are chronically ill. My question is what the picture when you take it with you is because those 80-plussers don't look like on the ice cream.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u285	This is the heart of the debate that you should actually have at this point, because it is about booking as many healthy years as possible. So it is not only combating mortality, but also book as many healthy years of life as possible. If you look at those states of the world that are just hard international data about where the virus is most housed, you can see that the virus is just targeting the most vulnerable people of the highest ages. So you see that when you start at the top, with the oldest elderly and with the most vulnerable, that is the fastest way to make health gains in periods of scarcity. What's that got to do with? If those small numbers of now release on the group 60- to 70-year-olds, for example, the baby tree group, which is incredibly large, you're not gonna dent it in a pack of butter. To the oldest elderly you can offer a decent level of protection, even with small numbers. So the problem of scarcity and the knowledge that you have to protect the oldest elderly first, you can only combine in that way. Otherwise, it's for AstraZeneca. It can't be used by the oldest elderly, but it can be used by the 60- to 65-year-olds. There is another difficult discussion, a political choice. We had actually sorted out the care workers in the long-term care for AstraZeneca, assuming that that would be more suitable for 60-miners than for the elderly. If there is a Health Council advice that you still have to use it for the 60- to 65-year-olds, there will of course be a consideration. What choice do we make? And that's not a free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u286	In my view, this is indeed at the heart of the discussion. I agree with the Minister. He's right when he says that if you start in scarcity with 80-plus you have the most health benefits there. But I'm also right when I say you can make the most profit when it comes to alleviating the pressure on intensive care, among the group 60-plussers with comorbidity. I wasn't talking about all 60-plussers, but I said that I'm talking about 60-plussers with comorbidity. So that's a lot less than the whole group of 60-plussers. Well, maybe we don't agree on that. I would ask the Minister to give a more detailed description of this issue in his next letter. What group? How? Where does it lead? What's the profit? And again, I'm not interested in all 60-plussers. Because I think we are getting to the heart of what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u287	Absolutely, absolutely. I will do so in the cabinet response to the advice of the Health Council on AstraZeneca. Because that is precisely what affects this point. The Health Council is also inclined to always provide very solid support, to very modelly or in fact arithmetically justify why which choice is justified. I would like to say one more sentence about this discussion. The most important medical indication is actually age. That's the most decisive medical indication, except for a number of conditions. But almost always age is the most important medical indication. Mr President, I will soon go to another block. First I come to a number of questions from Mr Van Ark's portfolio. Mr Van der Staaij asked if the cabinet was working with care on the possible impact of a third wave. He asks: if it would get very out of hand, are you prepared for the number of places you need? The answer is yes, that's what we're doing. Of course, we say first of all: it is not for nothing that we stick to these rather drastic restrictive measures, because we simply cannot afford to do so. In Van Dissel's presentation this morning, of course, you will see the last R-calculation, two weeks ago. This shows that we have not yet managed to control the British variant with the measures we took at the time. At least we didn't. You hope that we have succeeded in some way by now, but we certainly do not yet. To find out, we're gonna have to take our time. In short, there really is every reason for the gloom that the cabinet has; that gloom is certainly not characterological. And this, of course, is what we do in committee with the OMT. So what do we do? We're making a plan, with LCPS, with the ROAZs and RONAZ's. I think we're going to be able to fill up an entire evening in abbreviations... to make sure we're ready for a huge increase, both in acute care and in long-term care. Because that's what we have to do. We have a lot of people working in healthcare, but they work at a lot of different institutions, and very decentralisedly organized. It is the art of being able to control a region by then, so that we can make people work where the greatest need is, for example, given the absence of disease at a particular institution. We need to be able to coordinate this. That's what the plan is for and we'll get back to it this month, so in February. So that happens before the peak appears in March. The Minister for Medical Care will inform your Chamber about this. Is it true that there will be cuts in the budget for the GGZ? No, that's not right. The budget for the GGZ just follows the number of patients. In this week's report, the NZa indicates that the number of references is actually comparable to the number of references before the corona period. At week 4, about 8,900 references were made. This is also in line with the expected number of references. It is therefore not in line with the assumption that there would now be a fall in the number of clients or a fall in the budget that might be related to them. Mrs Sazias asks if I can ask more attention for people with complaints to go back to the doctor. Yeah, sure: we do, and there's all kinds of communication on that too. I think it's good to know that the number of references is now comparable to the number in the years without corona. That's what the NZa says. From this you could conclude that the number of referrals by the GP to the second line is actually comparable again. And by the way, of course, we know that there is still a lot of delayed care, and so on. And there were also references that came from the previous wave. We know that, but the number of referrals by the GP is now at least comparable again. Then there are Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's questions on personal protective equipment. The Minister for Medical Care has informed you about this. There is scope within the current directives to use those protective equipment, even if that is FFP2 that you yourself consider necessary as a professional. There should be no obstacle in that, because that's the deal. If a professional needs FFP2, that can be chosen. However, it is wise to have a good guide and to update it as this new variant appears to be more contagious. This has also been seen internationally as a reason to amend directives on the use of personal protective equipment. Where does that lead? For care within hospitals, the FMS is called upon to look at the existing guidance. In addition, RIVM, of course with the parties in the field, looks at what is needed within the care outside the hospital. It looks at the different types of protection required in the different work situations. The professions then translate this into practice. We're in that process. If that process has led to a result, Mr Van Ark will inform you about it. Then there was the question of whether the GGD is ready to test a lot more children and teachers as well as to test the employees of the child care centre in the fast test streets. The answer to that question is yes. The question was then asked: can this be done in the future? The answer to that question is numerically "yes" in any case with the GGDs, because there is a lot more capacity at the moment than what is being used. But there is now a pilot with 25 schools where rapid testing also takes place in the schools themselves. Which setting is chosen for the vo depends on the choice that will be made; that is either with the GGDs or with the schools themselves. Fieldlab is, of course, a terrible word when it comes to education, but together with those 25 schools, we will see under whatever conditions they could form the first group, also to make it clear how you can actually make something of physical education possible in vo without risking it. I think that was a question from Mr Klaver. We'll work that out with the vo. We'll come back to your room. So we are talking about 25 schools in the vanguard. Why aren't breath tests used on a large scale? So we're gonna do that, because the breath test has been developed. By the way, this is a beautiful Dutch innovation, which the whole world is jealous of. It is very difficult to scale that breath test very large. That's just because of the production. I've explained that before. It's a small start-up. We tried very hard to scale that up as quickly as possible. At least we managed to do the roll-out at the GGD streets. That's with about 400 breath tests. In total, about 1,800 will roll out of the production street. We also want to use them to test access in the event sector, for example. We are still working on the exact distribution, but it will be at least 400 at the GGD-test streets, of which 60 in Amsterdam and 320 elsewhere in the country. It's really a great performance of that company, Breathomix. That's a really nice company... and the GGD Amsterdam, which has a very nice local lab. In addition, the LAMP test is rolled out all over the country. Also working with quick tests is rolled out all over the country, because we ordered a lot of them. You also asked a question about this, following the report from Follow the Money that tests were purchased from Abbott and that this was not the case with the tender... Yes, that's right, because the idea was to buy in as soon as possible. I think that's what the Chamber thought at the time. We did. We were already in the process of buying that as soon as possible. We have bought huge stocks of available rapid tests in order to secure stocks, even in the event of greater international scarcity. We did. In addition, you are quite right to state that the market is of course not standing still. New rapid tests are also being developed, sometimes with other results. That's why it was a public market survey done by the Service Testing in the autumn. Other manufacturers have also come forward. These will be taken into account in the current round of purchases for the longer term. This assessment shall also take into account the different types of performance and the manageability of the different tests. Through this type of market exploration, we keep an eye on the market to anticipate this in the procurement process. Mr Krol asked a question about forced recordings in the UMCG. That is, of course, an existing possibility. You know the law: that's the Wpg. This is set out in Article 34 of the Treaty. It says that a hospital must be designated by the Minister. Well, I did. Furthermore, you know that I do not think that the current quarantine obligations will lead to a great deal of quarantine obligations, because it is quite a cumbersome way to impose them. That is why I am preparing an administrative form of it. I hope to inform you of this at least this month, or actually just come up with a legislative proposal. In February, I hope to come up with that bill. Mr Krol asked a question about the results of the Corona app. I could tell you all about that at night, but I'm sure the chairman won't let me, so I'm gonna do it all staccato. By now 4.5 million people have downloaded the app and 107.000 people have reported being infected themselves together with the GGD. In this way they have been able to warn the people who have been in contact with them. In doing so, the app makes a real contribution to the fight. The settings of the app are based on the LCI Directive. So everything that applies to testing also applies to the app. Anything else on the varia block, Mr. Chairman? Yeah? Then let's move on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u288	There's a very small light on the speaker chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u289	It says "-35."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u290	I don't know what it is, actually. What do you think it points to? I don't know! Mrs Van Esch's questions on preventing new imports. Yeah, we've been talking about that incredibly exuberantly, in several companies. We are currently doing much more than any other country in Europe in terms of double locks on the door. In addition, there is Belgium, which has said that there will be an entry ban. Of course, Belgium is bound by the same European rules as the Netherlands, so there you can only legitimize an entry ban if you test it in an individual way. Belgium shall carry out a random check on the possession of a self-filled form on the reason for the trip. Well, then you do know, so to speak. There can never be very thorough enforcement on that point. Moreover, the European Commission has put questions to Belgium as to whether this is in conformity with European legislation. We are really doing the best we can right now when it comes to non-essential travel. Then, agricultural poison creates resistance. The majority of azoles, the substances that fight fungi and ensure resistance, are currently being re-evaluated at European level. This process is expected to last for plant protection products for one to two years to come. For biocidal products this is likely to take several years longer. The cabinet has urged the European Commission to include the research results on the hotspots of resistance development in the review.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u291	I'd slow it down anyway, because I can see Mrs Van Esch standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u292	She's been standing there threateningly. But of course I also have your priming eyes in my back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u293	No, that's not an excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u294	Well, then I'm going to recite it very quietly. The Board for the Assessment of Plant Protection Products will, in the short term, adapt the relevant authorisations in order to prevent the development of resistance in flower bulb waste. The Ministry of LNV is working jointly with the sector to drastically reduce the dependence on plant protection products. I refer you to the future vision of plant protection. I know that you are talking about this with the Minister of Agriculture and the Secretary of State of IenW with regard to biocidal products. I think it's wise to have that conversation with them, too. Mr. Chairman. That last sentence was pre-emptive. You saw that happen, didn't you? Exactly. Hope it works. This was the answer in the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u295	Yes. Then I have Mr Klaver, Mrs Sazias and then Mrs Van Esch. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u296	The breath test. Very nice that those 400 tests are available in the short term. My question is actually very simple: it seems to me very sensible to use it for education because it is such a non-invasive test, so we could test a lot of young children and young people. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u297	Yes, for young children there are even more methods of reduction that are less child-friendly. They're in the pilot phase. I need to think about this question. In terms of numbers, I do not think it could be feasible to use this gross mode of education. However, I expect that if 400 breath tests are spread across the country and the children will mainly be tested at the GGD, which will be used for children to a large extent. Because children who have to go home because someone in the classroom is infected and who have to be tested on day five seem to me to be a welcome target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u298	I think so, too. I've received a lot of messages from parents who are very happy that the schools are opening. I'm such a parent myself who likes that very much, but such a test... Some here might like it; I don't. For children, that's quite a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u299	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u300	So does parents, like, "wow, what's gonna happen here?" I think it would be very good to point out that these breath tests are being used as a priority for these children. I'm not saying they should be there at every school. We do not have enough for that yet, but I think it is very good to make it clear that this test is there and that it is being fully used for the youngest in the whole strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u301	I can at least imagine the question very well. Whether it is conceivable that it will work that way in logistics, I do not know yet, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u302	That's good. Mrs. Sazias. I ask Mrs Van Esch to come forward as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u303	Sure, those breath tests would be extremely helpful, because fast testing is also a way out. I asked, among other things, who is responsible for purchasing those tests? Is that the RIVM, or is that the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u304	That's the Department of Testing and it's under the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u305	Good. That it was necessary for the speed to do this without a call for tenders, I can understand, but are the Abbott tests, which are really below the standards and are only for 72.6% sensational, still being used? Or are the better tests being used now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u306	I think that we should be careful to conduct this type of conversation in this way, because this is precisely what we have a market exploration and an invitation to tender for. If I am going to talk to you about individual brands of tests, then I always fail manufacturers, either one or the other. So I think we should be a little cautious there. By the way, this type of message in the newspaper is not uncommon as sender to have a competitive company that would actually like to see a particular type of test discredited. I think that is why we should be a little cautious. The fact is that at that time there were five tests that were validated as sufficient. Everything that existed at that time and was available, we validated. If it seemed to be useful for the purpose for which we wanted to use it, namely as soon as possible, we purchased it. Sometimes that happened before the validation was completed. Why? Because otherwise there was a chance that the market had been ripped out by another country. We bought a lot back then. That's why we have a lot in stock now. And what we are doing is anticipating new market developments, because the market is not standing still. In doing so, we use a normal purchasing procedure again, so an open purchasing procedure, so that other manufacturers can also offer their beautiful things to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u307	Mrs. Sazias, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u308	I would like to mention that the sender of this article was certainly not a competitor, but a thorough investigative journalist. My question is actually also about market exploration and new developments in fast test policy. Those rapid tests need to be validated. I understand that it's mostly the hospitals that are involved in the validation and testing. But those hospitals say they don't really have time for that. How does that work with the validation? How fast can it go? It is important that we have as many quick tests as possible and as sensitive as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u309	Sometimes this validation is indeed done in hospitals, for example in the MMLs that belong to hospitals. But very often this validation is also done in the GGD-teststraat, along with other tests. Validation has always been determined on a situational basis. For types of groups that come to test, for example asymptomates, you can see which test results there are at which type of reduction by whom. So you can't just say: well, that's how long a validation takes. That really depends on the test and the research group you choose. So I can't make that clear. What we do each time is to complete the validation of a new test that has become available as soon as possible, with a view to the target group that you would like to test with it. There is as short a lead time as possible. If the outcome is there, it will be validated by the OMT. So the OMT has to put its stamp on that, and then we're going to use it, in a certain situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u310	Mrs. Van Esch? Or would you like to ask a final question, Mrs Sazias?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u311	That validation process is not clear to me. I know a lot of hospitals say they don't have time at all to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u312	Then they won't join us; then we'll do it somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u313	No, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u314	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u315	New ones are coming on the market, and we need them as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u316	All this has been absorbed under the national coordination structure testing. In addition, you have different working groups. That's where the validation takes place. The design of the research is also discussed. Target groups are being discussed. Next thing you know, it's just his course. But I think it would be wise if I just went into more detail in a subsequent letter in writing about what that process looks like. Does that help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u317	Yeah, that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u318	Yeah, because this is real execution. Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u319	Shall I start asking very difficult questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u320	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u321	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u322	I warned you yesterday about Mrs. Van Esch, so you knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u323	I know, but even then. I also thought I was exceptionally well prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u324	Yeah, you thought so, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u325	I think that was a very well formulated answer from the LNV Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u326	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u327	But I won't ask a question that goes into that. I would just like to inform Minister Van Ark that since 2014 there has been an approved motion from this Chamber calling for a ban on this poison. That is what we have been waiting for since 2014. I don't think there's a moment, especially with this corona crisis, to lose just to carry out that motion. So I think it's a nicely formulated answer from LNV........................................................................................................................................................ But I think that motion should simply be carried out. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u328	Then you mean colleague Schouten, I think? The Minister of LNV?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u329	I'd rather have Minister Van Ark try to carry out the motion. I'd be much happier with that. In view of the fact that there is simply an approved motion by the Animal Party that the power of perseverance lies with VWS when it comes to dangerous public health situations, I think it is very important that that ministry should carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u330	But before you know it, the VWS ministry has to do everything that happens in the Netherlands. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u331	But the motion is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u332	I'm gonna ask. I'm going to ask both my colleagues if they want to serve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u333	I'd stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u334	We're dealing with motions that have been passed. Motions adopted, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u335	Thank you for this coaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u336	There you go! But then I won't be here, because of course I want to ask about the flight bans. We are pretending to be the best boy in the class again. I find that disturbing, because both Germany and Belgium and France and several countries in Scandinavia and the United Kingdom, so all countries around us, have stricter flight bans than the Netherlands. We are only talking about Belgium, but I have not yet heard what Germany has done, for example, with an entry ban from Portugal. So that we would be the best boy in this class is just not true. In that respect, I think: how is that possible? We just can't keep doing that. There are differences of opinion about Belgium. I disagree with you, so let's not have that discussion. But I am still curious about Portugal, because I think that is another point that we should certainly be discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u337	What we have agreed on in terms of system is the following. All flights from outside Europe to within Europe are subject to a double test obligation. All flights within Europe also have a double test obligation, both the PCR test and the fast test just before boarding. Anyway, all incoming travellers are advised to go into quarantine. We're going to work on a quarantine obligation. That's the built-up line. That's a very strict travel line. In addition, we have imposed a flight ban for South America and for South Africa. We have also told you, and we have shown this on several occasions: if it were necessary, because RIVM is concerned about a particular variant that would be around elsewhere in the world or in a part of Europe, and a flight ban would help, it is up to RIVM to advise us on this and it is up to us to act on it. We've shown that we can do that in one night. We did. We have also asked the RIVM that I have promised you to look periodically, just every time we are advised, whether it is necessary to add another country to a no-flying list. On 2 February, the Chamber was informed that the OMT indicated in its 97th opinion that no countries need be added at the moment, given the double test obligation and urgent quarantine advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u338	Then my question is still... Germany will, and that's not for nothing. We know that the situation in Portugal is far from good. We already have a British mutation here. We are all trying to prevent other mutations here in the Netherlands from causing even more risks and leading us to go further into a third wave. The OMT can give this advice, but I think the cabinet has often decided to do things that were just necessary. So I will stick with it: I do not understand why we are taking this risk if you see that other countries are actually implementing this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u339	I don't know about Germany. I do not have the current state of the travel policy. I remember when we set up the flight ban for flights from the UK on the evening of 19 December, I got a German colleague on the phone the next morning who said: couldn't you just say that? Then we were followed in the rest of Europe. We have therefore acted stronger and sharper than the rest of Europe, and that has followed us. We then set up a very strict policy for incoming travellers; very strict. Then I agreed with you that I would ask the OMT for advice on a list of countries for a no-flying permit. That question specifically mentioned the areas at the time, namely Portugal and Dubai. Your Chamber was informed on 2 February that the OMT indicated in its 97th opinion that no countries need be added at the moment, given the double test obligation and the quarantine obligation. Because of that combination, there's a triple lock on the door, which just works. Therefore, additional flight bans are not necessary. If it is, we're gonna do it. Who's gonna advise us on that? The OMT, or actually the RIVM, because it can advise on it more quickly, between the OMT meetings. The cabinet acts on the basis of these opinions and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u340	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u341	Rounding up. The OMT advice is also very important for the Party for Animals. That's what we're really basing policy on. I get that. However, I would like to ask whether we can still see how Germany has done this. 'Cause you're saying you don't know exactly how Germany did it for Portugal, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u342	Yeah, I'm okay with that. Of course. And why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u343	I think that's important. I think that we in the Animal Party would disagree with the OMT on Portugal in that respect, but we should keep asking the OMT...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u344	RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u345	Yeah, the RIVM. So we have to constantly ask RIVM to continue to act on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u346	Sure. I will also ask the RIVM why the colleagues of the German RIVM, the Robert Koch Institute, have a different consideration, if that is the case. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u347	Mr Segers, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u348	I had asked a question about threatening black scenarios in nursing care. We have received a number of very penetrating letters about this. ActiZ also sounded the alarm clock. It actually starts with hospital care: if the pressure increases there, eventually there will be a movement throughout the chain, also towards nursing care and perhaps also towards disability care. Is the Minister prepared for that? Is that what he's talking to ActiZ about? Because the e-mails that we get about that are extremely intrusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u349	I understand that, too. I have actually already answered that question in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. Whether it's hospital care, covid care outside hospitals or nursing care, we need to get ready for a third wave. We don't know how high it gets or when it comes, but it's coming, and it's swelling under the surface of the current figures, which seem to be falling. Hence the gloom. At the moment we are looking with both the ROAZ and the RONAZ, which is, say, the supporters of ActiZ, the long-term care that is needed in each region to scale care even further. We have a ramp up plan ic to 1,700 and a ramp up plan covidbeds outside the hospitals up to 2,000. That exists and it is quickly scalable. But if the peak gets even higher and needs to be scaled further, you want to be ready for that, too. A plan is now being drawn up for this. We'd like to finish that in February and share it with your room. Another part of the background to this demand, from long-term care, is vaccination. They hope that we do not opt for AstraZeneca for 60-65. This means for them that it could take longer before they have been vaccinated. That's what makes the decision so difficult. They also link this to a possible increase in demand due to the third wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u350	They were indeed surprised. They thought they had made an appointment, and suddenly two other scenarios were sidelined, in which they would have a different position. That's what we're gonna talk about. I have one last question in this context. Suppose it does indeed become very difficult and very difficult, then they want to have the professional space to act on things. We have very strict protocols and supervision. That is justified under normal circumstances. They say: if the pressure is going to increase, we want somewhere to hear the confidence that we can act on things. The minister looks very puzzled. That is the concern they have expressed: can we talk about the freedom of action that we then have in the discussions on scenarios and on the black scenario that is feared?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u351	I do look at puzzled, because I find that a difficult question in long-term care. What's the big difference between hospital care and nursing care? Grandma already lives in a nursing home. You can't order Grandma off because she already lives there. So you're just gonna have to take care of yourself. Of course there is some room if there is less care to be delivered, but rather not of course. What we actually have to do is divide all those people in care when it gets really exciting. Eventually, 1.3 million people work in healthcare. That means that somewhere else other types of care shouldn't go on for a while, because we're going to help wherever we have to. That is what needs to be done in these regions. We have the scaling up of 1,700 ic-beds and currently 2,000 beds in long-term care. Those are covid beds outside the hospitals, you might say. Those are the elv departments or the covid departments that have been created specifically for people who are too sick to go home, or not sick enough for the hospital. Besides, you have the nursing homes. If there's a contagion on a team, a team like that could suddenly be under a lot of pressure. "Black Scenario" is a complicated term. What we just need to organize is that at that moment, we have the people ready to get those teams out of the fire. This requires solidarity between healthcare institutions, but also coordination between healthcare institutions. As far as the first is concerned, I believe that there is solidarity. The second is that coordination is not self-evident. We've seen that. Sometimes we put the army in, but you can't just put people from the army into care. It will therefore have to come from the care itself. Then how do you coordinate at that time? They're working on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u352	Thank you. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u353	I have one last question. Because those e-mails and messages were so worrying, it would help to intensify the consultation that is undoubtedly taking place, if we were to hear about them, and if we could also answer that this consultation is taking place and that the scenarios are being considered in them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u354	That consultation is taking place very intensively. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u355	Thank you. We now come to the second term of office. I will see if Mr Dijkhoff needs a second term. That's the case. I call Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u356	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the cabinet for its commitment to the guarantee fund. We'll read the letter carefully. I hope and expect a solution for the month of June. If it is not simply opened up, it may be possible under certain conditions, so that we are more critical but not do nothing. The support packages are here. I hear a lot of entrepreneurs say, "I'm glad they're announced, but when do they start?" I can only express the hope that they will open as soon as possible, because people will run out of money. I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, hopefully, we will have room for relaxation of the corona measures in some time;]] [[Considering that many sectors suffer from these measures and are eagerly looking for possible relaxation, and that it is not desirable that one sector should be fully open while the other should remain closed;]] [[Whereas various sectors have smart plans to relax with caution;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with these sectors, to consider how we can fairly divide the space that will hopefully arise between these sectors and discuss it with them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Wilders and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-952]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u357	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u358	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start my second term with the drama of the scaled-down care. I think that is extremely important. I also believe that the cabinet should show more ambition to resolve this. Care has been scaled down. Okay, the care is being scaled up slowly, but all that care is far from overtaken. That might take years. People sit at home, have pain and worry, not only because of that pain, but also because of the loss of quality of their lives or that of their loved ones. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the scaling down of regular hospital care results in health damage, loss of healthy years of life and even mortality;]] [[having noted that since the first corona wave scaling has been on the agenda again and much scaled care still needs to be overtaken;]] [[calls on the government to send a plan of action to the Chamber within two weeks to make up for regular care and to indicate how the delays are made up in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-953]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u359	Then I have two short motions on vaccination policy. One to invite you to get the Russian Rolls-Royce, that Sputnik vaccine, or to produce here, which the Germans are also working on. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Sputnik vaccine has an effectiveness of 91.6% and that it allows Russia to produce the vaccine in its own country;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that we can obtain and/or produce the Sputnik vaccine in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-954]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u360	Finally, a motion on the vaccination certificate. We are really opposed to that. We also believe that this is contrary to the Wilders motion adopted, which says that there should be no urge for vaccination. That is why the next motion has been tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[In accordance with the Wilders motion adopted (25295 No. 720) to ensure that institutions and companies can no longer impose a vaccination certificate as a condition for access to their services and facilities, i.e. that there can be no material requirement for vaccination, even by force or pressure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-955]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first period, many groups have asked questions about the possibilities of accelerating the production of vaccines over the next few weeks and months. In those months it's about the battle between vaccinating enough people and becoming dominant of the British virus. In spring, when Feike Sijbesma was a envoy, I had a point about insufficient testing material. Mr Dijkhoff made the same point. Mr Marijnissen had several questions. They were about making more use of companies. I would like to table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas vaccination is our main asset to emerge from the crisis;]] [[Considering that in the coming months, the biggest problem across Europe is that there are far fewer vaccines than puncture capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a Special Envoy to scale up the production of vaccines wherever possible and to help conclude additional contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-956]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u362	Thank you, Mr President. And thanks to the cabinet for the answer. During the Minister's reply it became known that the Health Council advises to use AstraZeneca for 60- to 65-year-olds, with specific attention also for at-risk groups within that age group. I understand that in the next few weeks we have about 500,000 vaccines of AstraZeneca in stock. My questions to the Minister are: how quickly can he respond to the advice of the Health Council? How soon do we start vaccination with AstraZeneca? And is everything ready for that? No time to waste! Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I argued for sensible freedom and for looking at what else is possible within the corona measures, which we will have to live with for a long time to come. I'm glad the Cabinet will join us in that search. In a moment, Mr Klaver will also be tabling a motion on behalf of D66 in order to make an additional academic year possible for the students at least. We want to help students who are currently delayed, who are under stress about this and who are worried about their careers, so that they can study for an additional year without additional costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u363	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u364	Mr President, this motion has already been announced and introduced by Mr Jetten, so I shall read it out straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that student welfare is falling dramatically due to the corona crisis and that there is hardly any more room for students to develop themselves personally;]] [[whereas many students are financially affected by the corona crisis, for example by the loss of income and by higher costs due to study delay;]] [[Whereas several educational institutions advocate a free academic year in order to give students more financial space;]] [[calls on the Government to give all students (MBO, HBO and WO) who are lagging behind a year of study by exempting them from tuition and tuition fees and then to fully compensate for the lost income of MBO institutions, colleges and universities, and to include this in the development of the national programme on educational disadvantages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-957]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u365	Finally, one motion on the vaccination strategy. I continue to be very concerned about the way in which it has been organised. I think we should invest it with an independent government commissioner, someone with a little more distance from politics. I think it would be really good to do that in these campaign times. So here's what I'm gonna do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the vaccination strategy is a major logistical challenge;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint an independent government commissioner with the power of perseverance to be responsible for implementing vaccination policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-958]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u366	Finally, I would like to say once again on this motion: I hope that the cabinet will see that this is an attempt at help and that it is precisely to ensure that we improve implementation. Asking for help is a sign of strength and not weakness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u367	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SP will wholeheartedly support the motion on student compensation. We've been arguing for that since May of last year. It would be very nice if we could arrange that today. What would also be very good if we could do that today is to do everything in our power to increase the production of vaccines, because that is our way out of the crisis. It is super important that we share all the knowledge and information with everything and anyone who can produce such a vaccine. That's why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to control the corona pandemic, as soon as possible and as many people as possible should be able to obtain a vaccine, including in developing countries;]] [[Whereas it is essential for pharmaceutical products to share their technology and knowledge of corona vaccines with other manufacturers so that they can be produced as much as possible in the short term;]] [[Considering that the social importance of rapid scalability should prevail over commercial interests and negotiations;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort within Europe to call on pharmaceutical companies to share their rights and knowledge in the short term through C-TAP or to grant sub-licensing to as many suitable producers as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-959]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u369	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u370	Thank you, Mr President. The strength of a strategy is evident in the quality of its implementation. Also today there are many old people either too close to each other in crowded prick locations, or outside in the rain. The Minister has said something about it, but I would ask him to make sure personally that it does not happen again tomorrow. Vulnerable people already have to travel a distance, and otherwise they may also run unnecessary risks. It's a difficult time for young people. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many young people are seriously affected by the corona pandemic and the lockdown;]] [[Whereas the letter of fire from Aldermen Youth indicates that regular assistance is insufficient and that additional efforts should be made to support young people in the fields of education, ggz, employment and long-term economic and social impacts;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with young people, experts, caregivers, aldermen Youth and municipalities, to submit a delta plan for youth to the Chamber before 1 June 2021 and to inform the Chamber of progress in the interim,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ploumen, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Sazias, Mr Krol, Mr Van Esch and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-960]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers. I wish them strength, of course, in the continuation of the fight against this terrible pandemic. I thank the Minister for Health for his commitment to lay down scenarios of how we get out of here. We're all looking forward to that, so just talking about that can be hopeful. But it is also a very important debate, because what lies ahead is at least as important as the present and the fight against the pandemic. In that light, I also request recovery plans. The motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of vaccinations and tests, greater scope is expected to be given to society in the long term;]] [[Whereas corona has caused considerable damage to mental and physical health, the economy and society;]] [[Whereas recovery plans for health, economy and society are necessary in order to recover the damage rapidly;]] [[Considering that last year the ESC started building blocks for recovery and that life after corona is also being considered in society;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is working on an exit strategy and scenarios to scale measures;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with a broad representation of experts, to ensure that the preparation of health, economics and society recovery plans is started and involved in the exit strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Jetten, Mr Ploumen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haga, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver, Mr Sazias, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Esch, Mr Krol and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-961]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u372	All of these proposers would allow the motion to reach a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u373	That's what I suspect. Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I think there will be a few more answers in the second term, so that is what we are looking forward to. Yet there are three motions on our side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the risk of introduction of corona mutations from abroad;]] [[noting that Belgium has imposed a flight ban for non-necessary travel from all countries;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a temporary flight ban as soon as possible for non-necessary travel from all countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the risk of introduction of corona mutations from abroad;]] [[noting that the Cabinet has imposed flight bans on a group of high-risk countries;]] [[noting that Germany has recently imposed a flight ban on, inter alia, Portugal;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a flight ban as soon as possible for non-necessary travel from Portugal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-962]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-963]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that I know that Mr Blokhuis is dealing with a number of issues relating to prevention, and that there are plans to do so, we still think it is important that this basic health should be part of the road map. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has presented an update of the Roadmap to provide insight into the lockdown strategy;]] [[Observed that physicians warn that overweight, diabetes-2 and related conditions in a corona infection significantly reduce the survival rate on the ic;]] [[Whereas targeted measures could improve basic health in general and human immune systems in particular within a few weeks and reduce pressure on ic;]] [[calls on the Government to make the improvement of basic health part of the Roadmap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-964]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their answers and commitments. I've co-signed a number of motions. That was the Dijkhoff motion, which concerns the area for reopening and the fair distribution between sectors and the Segers motion on recovery plans and the broad weighting that is also at issue. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to point out that I am also referring to the Wilders motion in part No. 955 will support it. That motion concerned pressing against the use of vaccination certificates. I believe that the report of the Health Council also gives rise to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u377	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u378	Mr. Chairman. During the first term of the Chamber, the Prime Minister and I had a discussion on the corona-specific protocol. I've been studying the service document on the Ministry of Education's website. That's not what I mean. We see in the neighbouring countries and in the United States that there is a comprehensive, ready-to-use protocol. Schools can really work with that. This concerns the layout of tables, when or not breaks etc. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that primary education will be reopened for physical education from 8 February;]] [[Whereas there is or can be justified concern among parents, carers, teachers and school administrators;]] [[Whereas there is no corona-specific protocol for primary schools;]] [[Considers that a corona-specific protocol will contribute to achieving a responsible opening of schools where a safe and healthy learning environment is central;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the RIVM, to draw up as soon as possible a corona-specific protocol along the lines of the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in order to ensure a healthy and safe learning environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-965]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u379	Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Chamber voted in favour of the Azarkan motion by a large majority (25295, No. 864 and 25295, No. 676);]] [[noting that the Health Council states that employers, health care institutions, schools and restaurants may require a vaccination certificate;]] [[points out that the government should respect the statements of the Chamber and should not take irreversible steps, in particular because of its missionary status, without the explicit consent of the Parliamentary Assembly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-966]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u380	I had a third motion, but I only have six seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u381	Well, hurry up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u382	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many Dutch people are in a mental crisis;]] [[Whereas sports contribute to people's health and well-being;]] [[Whereas clusters and corona contamination can be prevented at gyms by a limited number of visitors, good ventilation and adequate hygiene measures;]] [[calls on the Government to open gyms that comply with corona-related infection prevention measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-967]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u384	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u385	Mr. Chairman. There has been a whole discussion about which vaccines for whom and when. Soon there will be a big delivery of AstraZeneca. Can I assume that Pfizer's vaccines are really only used for the elderly? Mr. Chairman. I'll just have to correct something. In my contribution I talked about the long lines at the Brabanthallen and in Alkmaar, only the word "and" fell away. The Twitterers are completely confused and think I meant the Brabanthalls in Alkmaar, but that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u386	Then that has been corrected. Mr Dijkhoff is also surprised at how this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u387	By the way, there were also long rows on Schiphol. Next week, we're gonna get a temperature of -20°C. The Minister has made a bit of a commitment, but still the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that multiple GMD vaccine action sites have created the undesirable situation that elderly people have had to wait outside in the cold for a shot;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that elderly people do not have to wait outside for a shot at all GGD vaccination sites, but inside a heated room,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-968]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u388	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the sick person's visit at this time is not possible after 9 p.m. due to curfew;]] [[Whereas this leads to distressing situations for patients as well as for friends and family members;]] [[calls on the Government to add sick visits as grounds for exemption for curfew,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has determined that the time between ordering and pick-up in shops is now four hours to stop fun shopping;]] [[Whereas there is no justification for these four hours;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the time between ordering and collecting to one hour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that children are barely affected by COVID-19;]] [[Whereas the negative effects of testing and quarantine are large for this group;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt children from testing and quarantine measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that secondary schools are closed and remain closed for the time being;]] [[Whereas the damage caused to secondary school students no longer outweighs the positive effects;]] [[calls on the Government to re-open secondary schools as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that bookshops are now closed because, according to the Cabinet, they belong to the so-called non-essential shops;]] [[Whereas bookshops are of great importance to many people;]] [[calls on the Government to add bookshops to the list of essential stores,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-969]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-970]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-971]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-972]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-973]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u389	Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that measures affecting constitutional freedoms, such as forced recordings, always involve the Chamber in advance, even if there is a legal basis for the measure, in order to make maximum use of the democratic process and to maintain its support in society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Speaks from the spring and election recess of the House of Representatives to be deleted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-974]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-975]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u390	And in case that motion is not adopted, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Speaks from parliamentary work during the spring and election recess on Tuesdays and/or Wednesdays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-976]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u391	Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u392	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u393	Mr. Chairman. Has there been any consultation with the unions on the service document and protocols? A question that was still there. I've checked that out. As of Sunday, the Ministry, both the government and the minister themselves, has been in consultation with councils, unions, teachers, schools and parents' organizations. There has been a detailed discussion of how OMT opinions and those of the councils have been translated into the service document. The signal from the AOb and other unions has also been on the table. Following that signal, it was agreed that distance education should not be provided today and Friday, should it be necessary to organise the school properly for physical education. Like I said, no one is being held to the impossible. The standard is to open from next Monday. That's in response to the question that was left. Then there was the question of the state of play. All the noises about schools that didn't think they could open yet have been called by the inspection. Fortunately, the information sent by the Ministry to all schools yesterday has made it sufficiently known to most schools and is open on Mondays. There is a great deal of work being done to put things in order, for which I should like to say this myself, not only on behalf of the Minister, but also on behalf of myself. I think I say that on behalf of the whole Chamber, although it is not up to me to do so, but I do it secretly. With the single board that doesn't open yet, the inspection and the ministry will continue the conversation, as I said in my term. Then there's the motions. The motion Dijkhoff c.s. in piece No. 952: Judgment Room. I would like to stress, however, that it is important that we realise that the fair distribution of space will be complex, as the amount of contacts and mobility varies enormously from sector to sector. Nevertheless, I understand what the motion is about and we wholeheartedly support it. The Klever/Jetten motion in part No. 957: Judgment of the Chamber, provided that it can be interpreted in such a way as to call on the cabinet to include in the national programme the delay in study for students mbo, hbo and wo. The motion calls for a year's tuition to be cancelled. I really shouldn't recommend that part. I can't judge Chamber on a blank check without cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u394	Brief remarks, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u395	If that becomes the rule, we have a big problem in this whole crisis approach, because I see this minister constantly handing out blank cheques. This isn't just about a possibility or an option. This is a very clear call to ensure that students can study tuition free for a year longer. I have been very clear about this in my contribution and that is quite clear in the motion. That is what the motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u396	That is clear and you know my judgment by now. On that basis, the political groups must judge. If the motion were adopted, we will, of course, discuss it further. The motion Segers c.s. in piece No. 961 on the Recovery Plan calls on the government to come up with health, economy and society recovery plans and to involve them in the exit strategy. At the start of the crisis, the cabinet came up with an economic support package and the social consequences, such as mental health, polarisation, social cohesion, division and widening of backwardness, including learning disadvantages, have always been taken into account. Scenarios are currently being worked on in line with possible developments during the crisis, identifying post-crisis recovery and renewal tasks in consultation with citizens, civil society organisations, business and science. To this end, there will be many discussions in the coming months, a broad dialogue, and communication pathways linked to them. Mr Segers' motion is perfectly in line with this and will receive a ruling from the Chamber. The Kuzu/Ploumen motion in part No. 965 wants a corona protocol for education. There is this, namely the protocols of the PO Council and other Councils. It seems to us that one protocol is better than two protocols, so advise against it. The Kuzu motion in part No. 967 wants to open the gyms. I want to, but I can't right now. It's not wise because of the last OMT advice. So the motion in part No. 967: dissuade. The same applies, unfortunately, to the motion on item No. 969 by Mr Van Haga on exemption for sick visits. You may already visit the hospital, and someone who is dying is, of course, covered by the term "emergency situation." Then there is no need for a statement of its own. To the extent that there would be care in the hospital, this could also be done with a self-declaration. This also falls under the category "help for people in need'. But a normal visit to someone in the hospital cannot during the hours of curfew and therefore the motion becomes in part no. 969 dissuade. I'm so sorry. The Van Haga/Krol motion in part No. 970 asks for those four watch hours to be removed and returned to one hour. Referring to the debate: dissuade. The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga called for the opening of secondary schools as soon as possible. That is what we want, but, of course, taking into account an OMT opinion and what I said about it in response to Mr Klaver's first-term comments. On balance, I have no choice but the motion in part No. 972 the Court of Justice, but with that remark. Then the motion to part No. 973 by Mr Van Haga on bookshops. I'd love to, too, but I can't do that now because of the epidemiological risks. I need the motion in part no. 973. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 974 is a speech-expression. Therefore, the government should not have an opinion on this either, but I would like to inform the Chamber that we always inform it beforehand about corona measures in the progress report. The motion in part No. 975 on the deletion of the electoral recess is also a speech-out. So that does not seem to me to be something the government should judge. The same applies to the motion in part No. 976, which is really addressed to the Chamber. So there is no judgment of the cabinet on this either. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks again to the Chamber and also to you for the leadership of this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u397	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment and then I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u398	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a question from Mr Jetten, namely when the reaction will be on AstraZeneca and when the shots of AstraZeneca will start. The Health Council came today with its advice. I will probably come myself tomorrow with a reaction to that advice, in which I myself make the choice about who that AstraZeneca vaccine is intended for. I expect to be able to start pricking by the end of next week. Then there is Mrs Van Esch's question about Blokhuis' lifestyle plan. He's gonna do that by this month at the latest. Hopefully as soon as possible, but at least in February. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. Mr Wilders (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Wilders on his excellent report. In particular, it's the deadline why I'm betraying her. We do want to get to work on this, Mr Van Ark will get to work on it, but because of the deadline we really have to discourage her. Then the motion to part No. 954 on Sputnik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u399	Mr Wilders on the first motion, on the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u400	Can you be more explicit about the deadline? You're saying two weeks isn't, but three weeks is? What's the deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u401	What we're doing first is now making the plan to be able to withstand much larger numbers of patients, to be able to withstand that third wave. That's what my colleague Van Ark is working on first. The deadline is now quite clear because of the third wave, but she likes to get started with a plan for catching up on delayed care. I don't have an alternative term here. If you would like to delete the deadline in the motion, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u402	Then I'll cancel the deadline and then I'll assume that the cabinet will do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u403	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u404	What is the verdict if the deadline is omitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u405	Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u406	Then the motion will be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u407	Then the motion becomes: "Asks the government as soon as possible" instead of "Send a plan of action to the Chamber" within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u408	The Wilders motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the scaling down of regular hospital care results in health damage, loss of healthy years of life and even mortality;]] [[having noted that since the first corona wave scaling has been on the agenda again and much scaled care still needs to be overtaken;]] [[calls on the Government to send a plan of action to the Chamber as soon as possible to make up for regular care and to indicate how short-term delays are being made up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. , was No. 953 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u409	Then the Sputnik vaccine, the motion in part no. 954. This is, of course, the subject of the regular admission procedure through the EEA, which I would advise against. The motion in part No. 955 about a vaccination certificate not as a condition I also advise, but actually for another reason. Let's just do things in the right order. The Health Council has come up with the opinion and the cabinet comes up with a policy response to it. Then there will be a thorough discussion in the Chamber and then there will be legislation reflecting the outcome of that discussion. This would be an advance on that. So I am not saying that I disagree with its content, but for the sake of the correctness of the procedure, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 956 is about a special envoy on production. I should like to leave that to the Chamber. The motion No. 958 is about an independent government commissioner. I would advise against this motion, for the reasons mentioned by the Prime Minister in the first term. On the motion for a resolution by Mr Martins and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) The motion in part No. 960 is about a delta plan for young people. I have reservations about the word 'delta plan', but I also see the intimidating list of signatories to this motion, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. My fine political feeling is that it is the most sensible thing to do. Then the motion to part No. 964 on basic health as part of the Roadmap. I would advise against that motion, referring to what I said about it in the first term. I am sorry, but I also have to deal with the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 962 and 963. They're about traveling. I would advise against both of these motions, referring to what I said about them in the first term. The motion in part No. 966, on no irreversible steps. That's a speech-out, so I don't have to respond to that, but I find out what I thought about Wilders' motion. The motion in part No. 968, on the GD vaccination sites. Indeed, I find these undesirable situations to be annoying. I also know that the G.D.D. thinks that's a very annoying picture. People are doing everything they can to solve that, and there are waiting areas, and there is also very good work being done. I hope you have But this is annoying and we shouldn't; everyone thinks so. So the G.D.D. is working hard on that. I'm gonna say one thing. Then it also helps very much not to come too early, says the GGD. That's what people say on the phone. Older people want to be on time, of course, and I understand that very well, but precisely because they are so early, there are too many people on the site at that time. So, just come at the time indicated. If you do, it's also possible to get it all organized properly. So the G.D.D. is working hard on this. Having said that, I see the motion as supporting policy. So she gets judgment room. In the motion in part No. 971 is requested to exclude children from testing and quarantine measures. Of course, I can't, so I'm not suggesting that motion. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u410	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u411	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u412	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u413	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Members of Parliament. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS, the messengers, the stenography service, the clerks and the viewers. And the reporters.
