ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Basic Registration Persons Act. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the Members of the House and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u2	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Rajkowski of the VVD. I would like to agree with the spokesmen that in the first period you may ask each other four questions, and then four questions to the ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight we're talking about Basic Registration Persons, the BRP. That sounds a bit technical and perhaps a bit dusty, but it affects all of us. All our residents are in the BRP with their first names, surname, gender, social service number, address and so on. It is therefore very important that these data are correct. They actually have to be right, so that you can receive rent or other provision if you are entitled to it. But there is also a desirable component to it, because the BRP can also be used to solve existing problems. I'm going to make some suggestions for that. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State for taking care of a number of very important issues in this legislative proposal. One of them, in our opinion the most important one, is about the death of a child. That is, of course, a very heavy and emotional event. This amendment regulates that parents can register the data of their deceased children and thus obtain recognition for their child. I have been allowed to fight for this in the Utrecht city council, and in recent years this has already been regulated for a large part by law. I am pleased to see that it is now well regulated for all the parents involved, no matter how sad the cause is. In addition, the law provides that mayors and aldermen can no longer avoid providing homeless people with a letter address, so that they are not excluded from the participation of part of society. These people could have a letter address, but it didn't always happen. Finally, I would like to mention the modernisation of the BRP. My group welcomes that. Mr President, you should look into the BRP system. You will then be shocked by the large amount of manual copying and scraping that our officials have to do in order to provide the BRP system with correct and factual information. Mr. Chairman. I would like to share two more problems with the Chamber. I also have the solutions to these problems, as you may expect from someone standing here. The first problem concerns labour migration. Our tomatoes, asparagus and bulbs are often picked, stabbed or peeled by migrant workers. Usually it is Poland, Bulgarians or Romanians, who stay here but are not always registered. So municipalities don't know if they're still here at all. Municipalities don't know where they live, nor do they know how to reach them. That's problematic. RTL Nieuws headlined a few days ago: "Municipality takes Romanians out of dreary home: I don't know where they are now" It was about 50 Romanians who lived in wretched conditions. It is problematic that we cannot even find these migrant workers, especially when there are abuses. The SZW inspection has complained about this before. The inclusion of a telephone number, e-mail address and temporary residence in the Registration Non-Residents was therefore one of the important recommendations of the Roemer Commission last year. That committee investigated how to deal with abuses. This registration also helps to identify wider problems such as nuisance or fraud. There is therefore every reason to implement this recommendation now. The problem has been going on for years. We'd like to take care of this today. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this effect, with the support of the CDA, the PvdA, the SP, D66, GroenLinks and the Den Haan Group. This amendment provides for contact details of non-residents such as migrant workers to be registered with the municipalities in the BRP. I come to my second and final point. At the moment, anyone can register at an address without the person who lives there knowing about it. So, Mr President, you will hear me correctly: perhaps I would like to register at your address, but you do not know anything about it. It's a nice loophole in the law, but it's a potential risk for the person who lives there, because they might have to pay back benefits and supplements. That is why my group would like the person who already lives at such an address to receive a signal if someone has registered with him or her at the same address. I have also tabled an amendment to this effect, together with the CDA and D66. That amendment stipulates that the person who already lives at an address will receive a signal if someone else has registered at that address. Mr President, concluding. My group sees the need for the modernisation of the BRP. We therefore support the Secretary of State in all his proposals to make the BRP a desirable system in addition to a factually desirable system, so that parents can be recognised of possible suffering, so that homeless people are not excluded from our society and so that we can deal with abuses of labour migration. The BRP belongs to all of us and has to work for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u4	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Ginneken of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of all the subjects that are part of the legislative amendment before us this evening, I am particularly concerned about one. Up close I know how valuable it is for parents of lifeless born children to express their bond with their child. Registration in the BRP is a way to do that. It is nice that this possibility exists since 2019, but unfortunately not yet for everyone. That is why I am pleased that this amendment now makes this possible for parents who were not registered as residents when their child was born. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to what extent it matters whether a parent can recognise the lifeless child in the country where the child came into the world. Are there countries where this might not be possible? Does that have legal effects in the Netherlands? What burden of proof should be provided in the Netherlands for adding a lifeless born child to the list of persons? I understand from the answers to questions from my colleague Bergkamp, who has been working on this subject for a long time, that the Secretary of State is also examining whether data from persons registered as non-residents can also be included in the personal list. What about this part of the development agenda? Mr. Chairman. The change in the law for the registration of lifeless children makes it clear once again that we do not immediately foresee all situations. That is why I fully understand the wish of this cabinet for a new basis in the law that allows for trial. For if every trial requires a change in law, change and improvement will be slower and will not benefit the people of our country. I would like to make it quite clear that vigilance is needed, because it is personal data that is involved, and as far as the protection of personal data is concerned, the government does not have the best reputation, to say the least. The new basis must therefore not be carte blanche, but clearly delineated and meet high safety requirements. The explanatory memorandum refers to an equivalent alternative to the current safeguards. When I read critically, it seems more like the guarantees from the BRP can be released and only the GDPR serves as the lower limit. For this reason, I would like to know from the Secretary of State how equal is "equivalent" if the right space is to be provided that does not offer the guarantees in the BRP. How is it ensured that the highest privacy standards are always respected in trials? Is it true that the GDPR is the absolute lower limit in all cases? Can the Secretary of State specifically address experiments aimed at maintaining data on non-residents, namely digital contact details on second-address data, since this concerns an extension of the registration of personal data? In advance, I apologize for making my question so technical. The final question about this part is: how are these tests monitored? We really must be careful to ensure that, by enabling trials, we are able to provide data in a different way or to other parties without having the basis in order, namely the protection of citizens' data. Mr. Chairman. Next is the proposal for an explicit legal obligation to register individuals on their own initiative at a letter address. That got me right excited. Over the last few years, the National Ombudsman has repeatedly paid attention to the problems faced by citizens when enrolling in the BRP and its impact on homeless people. Too often lectures are left to assign their own letters addresses. If you're not registered, the consequences are great. You can't take training, you can't take out a health insurance policy, and you can't apply for ID. In short, a lot is not, while homeless people need this kind of service. I therefore hope that the legal obligation will make a real difference, because everyone counts and everyone participates as far as I am concerned. However, I would point out that people only receive a letter address when they have come to the municipality, whether through a social agency or not. So people still fall out of the boat. According to the Secretary of State, what can we do to get these signals to the college even more often and more quickly? I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how he will support municipalities in the implementation and implementation of this legal duty, because good compliance is really going to make the difference and can prevent distressing situations. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the proposal that everyone who lives at the same address should no longer appear in person if they are not members of the same family. D66 supports this proposal, because young children want to be able to receive signals about the voluntary nature of their departure, but of course that does not apply to all persons who may live at the same address. Think of students sharing a house. I have one final question. Well, I don't think I'm gonna risk that anymore. I'm sticking to the time. I'm gonna leave this question alone. I look forward to the answer to my questions by the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u6	Thank you. Thanks for staying within the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u7	I've seen you look hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u8	Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Basic Registration Personal Data, the BRP, is more than a convenient database for the government. It contains data on our history of origin, about our family. It is of fundamental importance for people who, for example, want to make use of social security. The legislative proposal now before us improves the BRP and its functioning, in the opinion of our group, especially for groups for whom registration in the BRP is important and for whom this is anything but an automatic act. In my contribution, I will deal first with the legislative proposal and then with the subject of data on adoption children in the BRP and my amendment to that effect. I'll start with the definition of letter addresses. For homeless people, this has always been one of the biggest obstacles they face for many years. Without a letter address, no health insurance policy, no ID, no training and no renewal of the driving licence. Of course, more housing is the most sustainable solution, but that cannot be arranged overnight. Also in my own practice as a lawyer and in my time as a city council member in Amsterdam I have seen that what is on paper can sometimes clash with practice. It is sometimes very difficult to determine and define where a homeless person actually has a legitimate stay, because it is not as fixable and so in one permanent place as we might want. A letter address can in principle be arranged quickly, but despite attention in circulars and repeated calls municipalities do not always register homeless people at a letter address. The Secretary of State also writes in the explanatory memorandum that colleges too often fail to grant letter addresses. We are therefore strongly in favour of the legal obligation for municipalities to register when the college becomes aware of someone in the municipality without permanent residence or residence. But what does this notification and knowledge look like? For example, is it about signals from aid workers? One question I don't have an answer to yet is: how does the test take place if someone actually stays in the municipality? And how do we deal with the situation where several municipalities say that someone is not actually staying there? Because as I mentioned earlier, the situation of homeless people is very complicated. Those people don't know where they're sleeping tomorrow. For example, that can be one day in the municipality of Amsterdam and the next day in Weesp, Abcoude or somewhere else if a friend offers a bed or a bank there, whatever it takes. This can actually go on for a long time. Where does someone stay? In practice, you often see that municipalities indicate that there is no actual residence. But if every city does, then we have a problem. So someone falls between shore and ship, which happens all the time. I wonder if this solves the specific problem of how we deal with the fact that after a legality test a municipality concludes that someone is not staying there, but actually every municipality in this country or actually every municipality where the person actually sleeps does. How can we make sure that we can still get a municipality to sign someone up? What is the role of the Secretary of State in this? I hope that we can clarify this a little today, because this is one of the biggest problems facing homeless people. It concerns not only the letter address, but also the possibility of obtaining information in the field of health insurance and in many other areas. That is crucial, so I would like an answer to that. Mr. Chairman. The experimental assessment can make it possible to gain experience that can lead to improvement of the BRP. It is a good thing that this experimental clause is limited as a result of the involvement of the Council of State and that there is also a veil. Nevertheless, I am looking for safeguards that are needed. In which cases is a privacy assessment used and when not? Or shouldn't that be standard? Shouldn't we just take care of that? Is it possible, for example, to ask the AP to write an opinion on new experiments? Can the Secretary of State indicate why the experiments should last four years and not two, for example? And is such a long scope still an experiment? One of the points on which this improvement is urgently needed is for the registration of migrant workers. The news of the 50 migrant workers living under inhumane conditions in Limburg, and who have now disappeared from the radar, confirms this once again for my group. I know that the Secretary of State is working on an experimental decision on this very point, and therefore call on him to do so quickly. At what time does the Secretary of State expect the experiment to begin after the adoption of this bill? Then compared to the registration of lifeless children in the Netherlands. It is very nice that the Secretary of State, after signals from parents and Chamber questions, expands the possibilities for registering lifeless children in the Netherlands. This makes it possible for parents who were unable to register earlier to do so. How can the cabinet communicate about this enlargement? Is it possible to draw the attention of parents whose applications may have been rejected earlier, in particular, to the extension of these possibilities? Are municipal officials also properly instructed on this competence? In the end, this change was made on the basis of parliamentary questions and signals from the implementation practice. It does not seem unthinkable to the Christian Union that in the future there may be new cases in which you would like to accommodate people in order to allow registration in the BRP. Where can these people come in, who are stuck in this often emotional process? Is there a central point where bottlenecks can be identified and reported, which may be helpful? A special feature of this bill is that the motion of member Özütok and my former colleague Van der Graaf has been followed up to allow registration on the BES. In the European Netherlands there were many more registrations than expected. The need for this turned out to be great and people were also aware because of the media attention. The Secretary of State knows the islands well. How will the proposal be brought to the attention in the specific context? Mr. Chairman. Finally, adoption. For the Christian Union, it is very important that every child knows where he or she comes from. Fortunately, this is clear for many children, but for adoptive children it can sometimes be a difficult and lifelong search. We have also discussed this issue in another committee this week. Currently, the BRP Act provides the possibility for parents and children up to 16 years of age to have the data of adoption children removed from the BRP. Parents who do this will undoubtedly do so or have done so in the best of intentions. Yet the Christian Union thinks it is wise to leave this choice to the child. When we look at the Hague Adoption Convention, but also at the ECHR and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, we see that there is a consistent obligation on countries to guarantee the right of children to secure proper data on origin. As the law now states, my group is somewhat at odds with this. That is why I have tabled an amendment which only leaves the possibility of deleting data from the BRP to the child when he or she has reached the age of 16. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this amendment. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a big night, isn't it? This law is amended so that migrant workers and people who do not belong to a family but live together will no longer have to appear in person upon declaration of departure from the Netherlands. It is legally required for municipalities to provide people with a letter address. It becomes possible to register a lifeless born child. I think this is the most important thing tonight. A lot of people here, I'm always on a quest to make a difference. And then you have to explain to your neighbors, friends and at parties how you do that, legislation. I think this is such an essential proposal. I have to tell you, I haven't been a part of it, as a new MP. I would like to thank everyone who has had that incredibly, because I also have people in my close circle for whom this is going to mean a lot. Also support for Mr Ceder's amendment. We've had a pretty emotional but good, respectful adoption debate earlier this week. I believe that with Mr Ceder's amendment children will have much more opportunities, entirely in line with the Hague Adoption Treaty, or at least that the possibility of discovering their roots will not be cut off, to find their biological parents, if they really want to. This also reflects the debate we had earlier this week. So a valuable evening, but also one package leaflet and also a letter of fire from a number of municipalities showing that what we are talking about tonight and the amendments we are tabling have already been overtaken by practice. That package leaflet is the legal obligation to register homeless people. This will make it easier for homeless people to be eligible for assistance and financial support. The Labour Party is incredibly happy about this, but the package leaflet is that municipalities simply need to get enough money for this, otherwise things will go wrong in practice. And then the way in which we have actually been overtaken by that practice, by a letter from a number of municipalities. I don't even know if that letter was filed officially or just unofficially. In any case, the Labour Party shares the important amendment of the VVD which regulates that the contact details and temporary residences of non-residents should be included in the BRP; a very nice step, to avoid cases such as in the Limburg Linen, which the colleague of the VVD mentioned. A number of municipalities already indicate that a further step is needed to better protect and avoid nuisances for migrant workers. No more overcrowded cellar boxes in Rotterdam, never Linen, never again a fire department that finds a house in The Hague and has to step over people and doesn't even know how many people are there. Two things are needed for that, those municipalities say. It is necessary to establish a legal basis for the exchange of data between RNI and others in order to effectively maintain the maximum registration period, and that the place of residence of the migrant worker enters the BRP from day one. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to shed light on both points and let us know whether these additional requests will soon be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u12	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA. Let's clean up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We think it is important that we regularly review the laws we lay down with each other, to see if they are indeed doing what we expected, or to observe that times have changed and that adjustments are necessary. This proposal is the result of, inter alia, such an evaluation. We are going to promote feasibility on a number of parts and restore a few omissions. I would like to comment on some of those changes. First, the automatic registration of a person at a letter address. Why is this important? By my predecessors it has already been explained in detail that this registration contributes to keeping track of the basic registration. There's a reason why it's called "order-based" registration. In addition, one of our tasks as a government is to help people who are less capable of doing so. They're part of our society. Living together means helping each other when necessary. In order to help people, registration in the BRP is often a condition. Unfortunately, research has shown that the lectures of mayor and aldermen responsible for keeping the BRP still too often fail to give up their own letter addresses. With this adjustment, the non-committality goes a bit off. However, I am curious to see why municipalities fail to do so. I don't know of any or very few communities that have no intention of helping their inhabitants. Does that have to do with the risk of committing fraud with address-dependent government facilities? We also support the importance of preventing this type of fraud. We also read that there are measures to prevent this. Our question is whether these measures are indeed sufficiently effective, but also sufficiently practical. I'd like a response. Then a very important adaptation for the CDA: extending the registration of lifeless born children and the registration of children who died before registration in the GBA or the BRP. Because losing your child is a traumatic event; a pain that you don't want anyone to feel, but which unfortunately occurs regularly. Often other people don't see this pain, but you have to give it a place with your partner. A recognition of the child might help parents. 'Cause these kids need to be seen, too. The third point is the inclusion of an experimental article in the law. This concerns in particular the intention to give citizens more control over the registration and sharing of data relating to them. What is needed, among other things, is for more space to be built into the process to keep pilots and experiments. In order to do so in a responsible manner, it is proposed to include in the BRP Act a so-called experimental article allowing temporary derogations from provisions of this law relating to the keeping and provision of data. But we believe that this addition anticipates and is positive about desirable developments from our citizens. Mr. Chairman. These changes make our legislation a bit more social and empathic. Laws are sometimes black and white, but that doesn't mean we can't make them with feelings. As far as we are concerned, these changes are another step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u14	Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about 20 minutes to prepare himself. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.10 p.m. No, that's longer. I think I'm gonna stick something on it! Shall we do 8:00? Yeah, 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u15	I would ask Members to take their place again. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an honor to be here on this subject. It has already been said by some of the members: it may seem a boring subject when you explain what the Law BRP is, but at the same time there is a lot behind it and it also turns out that it is a law that means a lot to people. The BRP has been the legal basis for our population administration since 2014, making it an indispensable link in the provision of information for the entire government. It contains the personal and address details of our citizens and others with a relationship with the Dutch government. It contains data that are needed in many government processes and have been collected and used for that reason, but should never be forgotten that it is always about people in the end. Since 2014, two notable changes to the BRP Act have taken place. Those changes saw the implementation of the GDPR and the possibility of registering non-living born children in the BRP. So today we are discussing the third amendment of the BRP Act and an amendment of the Basic Administrations Act Personal Data BES. In this introduction I shall deal in turn with three subjects of this proposal, the most important of which have already been mentioned by Members. These are: extending the possibility of registering non-lived children to the Caribbean Netherlands, i.e. the BES, the compulsory automatic registration of a letter address and new possibilities to carry out experiments for the further development of the BRP, so that we may have a subsequent legislative amendment of the BRP at a later date. The BRP is not static, but it adapts to the needs and societal insights that exist. On the basis of these three points, I would like to make a few comments. Then I would like to answer the questions raised on the same subjects and on a number of other subjects, and I would also like to comment on the amendments tabled by Members. First of all, the extension of the possibility of registering non-living children. In 2015 the petition was "I want in the BRP too!" under that name started by parents of non-living born children. For them it was a great emotional loss that registration of non-living born children was not possible in the BRP. That petition was signed more than 82,000 times in early 2016. Your chairman was also involved in this in person at the time. I also very much appreciate the fact that she wants to chair this debate tonight, and that is the privilege of the President; that is up to you, because she considers this issue so important. On 4 October 2018, I was allowed to speak with your Chamber about the amendment of the BRP Act that would make this registration possible. I must say that I will never forget that debate again. That's what you do sometimes with certain debates. It was a debate of great consensus in the Chamber with many personal contributions from the Members who had all had to do with this in their own environment. Since 3 February, after the proposal had been adopted unanimously, it has been possible in the European Netherlands to register non-lived children. It's okay. It's okay. But there are a lot of people who have used this. We all know people who have been in that situation and who have been able to report this with retroactive effect and register their children. I think it is also one of the fine things about the legislative task, and in this case the co-legislative task of the House of Representatives, with a change of a number of letters in the law, to bring about this kind of legislation with great consequences for people. At the same time, when we had implemented this change of law, it was also supposed to be so that there would be signals from the practice that there might still be some loose ends. That was in response to questions from the Chamber and signals from the implementation practice. This showed that, in some cases, these registration possibilities are unnecessarily restrictive, whereas the starting point has always been, as we pointed out in the debate: we assume trust, and if there is a deep desire on the part of parents to register their children, then that should be possible. Let me give you an example. Requests from parents who were not resident in the Netherlands during the child's birth and then returned to the Netherlands had to be rejected. This legislative proposal extends and simplifies these conditions. The only condition is that the parent is registered as a resident in the basic registration at the time of application for registration. So it doesn't matter where the parent lived at the time of the child's birth. In addition, it will also be possible to include children who have come into the world alive but then died, without being part of the BRP, in the BRP at the request of the parents. This bill also implements the Özütok/Van der Graaf motion of 10 October 2018 to allow registration of non-living born children in the population administrations of the BES. I sometimes say to the people of the BES: you should not want to have all the laws from the European Netherlands, but I give them this law wholeheartedly. For example, the people who live on Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius can also make use of this. With these possibilities we think we can do justice to the wishes of people who have had to deal with major events. In this way, they are also recognised. Then the letter address. This is, of course, a change of a completely different nature, namely the obligation to register that letter address on its own initiative. Several of you have already said that it is important that everyone who stays in the Netherlands for a long time is actually registered at an address in the BRP. This is also very important for citizens themselves, for example in order to be able to claim benefits from the same government. The starting point is that you're registered where you live, your home address. For people who have no permanent residence or residence, such as homeless people and homeless people, it is important that they receive a letter address. That's an address you don't have to live or live on, but on which the government correspondence can end up. An investigation by the National Ombudsman, which has already been referred to, has shown that in practice municipalities still too often fail to give their own letters. Several parliamentary questions have been asked about this and several calls have been made to it, but it does not seem to go as it should. In his report, the Ombudsman points out that in practice this means that, in particular, homeless people cannot, or with great difficulty, make use of the services provided by the public authorities and other institutions, which they need because of their social position. The present bill explicitly states in the law that municipalities are obliged to register a letter address if someone is staying in the Netherlands, but does not have a permanent residence or residence. Then the third part, the experimental assessment. In September last year I offered the first version of the BRP Development Agenda to your Chamber. In this we indicated that we want to develop the BRP gradually, tailored to existing requirements. It fits within this approach to try an adjustment first on a small scale. I said about the digital government: little experimenting; if it works, you can roll it out big. However, the BRP Act and the legislation based on it lay down exactly which data can be recorded in the basic registration and to whom such data may be provided. As a result, pilots with other data, provision to other parties and experiments using data on existing individuals are not possible at the moment. If you want to do it responsibly, as has rightly been said, it is about personal data; they must be properly protected...................................................................................................................................................... It is therefore proposed to include that experimental article. It is therefore possible to derogate temporarily from the provisions of this law. I would also like to mention the safeguards contained in this experimental article. An experiment can only last up to four years and must be evaluated by an independent research firm. Furthermore, the decision regulating the experiment is subject to a pending procedure. This means that the Chamber can take note of the experiment in advance. Many discussions with municipalities confirm that improvements and innovations in the BRP system are needed and that the possibility of making the system more sustainable for the future through experimentation is highly desirable. In my view, an experiment can respond more quickly to social issues, as they may change, such as the problem of the position of migrant workers, which has already been mentioned. The first experiment under this new legal basis is already in preparation. I can inform you that in the very short term, even before the summer, the public consultation will start of an experimental decision to allow the registration of temporary residence addresses and contact details of migrant workers residing in the Netherlands for less than four months. In this way, we can prove in practice whether, and if so, how the registration in the BRP can contribute to solving social problems, in this case the lack of insight into the residence of migrant workers in the Netherlands, as previously reported by the Roemer Committee. I would like to make one more point: I would like to say this here. The BRP takes place under my responsibility, under the responsibility of the Home Office, but it is very important that many organisations, such as municipalities, the Inspection SZW and the Tax Administration, are involved, from their own knowledge and experience. I very much believe that people in the implementation of this legislation can, from the point of view of practice, indicate where to adjust and how to do better. In addition, there are a number of smaller technical legislative proposals that are part of this proposal. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the questions raised by your Members, for which I would like to thank you, I would like to begin my reply with the theme of 'lifeless children'. Firstly, Mrs van Ginneken's questions: does it matter where the child was born, does it matter whether the child is or is recognised in that country, and what is the burden of proof for parents who want to register a child? It does not matter where the child is born or whether the child is or is recognised abroad. If there is an instrument of birth or death, a Dutch or a foreign person, that data shall be recorded on the basis of the data contained in that document. If there is no deed, that is what we already have at the time, then registration can take place on the basis of an oath, because we rely on trust. That's important to note, I think. We assume that people do not report a situation that has not occurred. I have no idea how often it happens, but I can remember the debate in which I was asked how I will control it. Well, if people explain that, we're not gonna check it out. Then we assume it is. It also does justice to what they have been through and gives them that recognition. Mr Ceder asked how we are going to communicate about this in the BES islands and how we are going to bring it to the attention of the public. When I came to the BES, after the law was passed here, people asked: when is that going to happen to us? Of course, the motion got over that, so people are already prepared for it. But communication is always important, in order to draw attention to the possibility that is now present. In the European Netherlands, we have gained experience of how to do this well. The fact that so many people have applied already indicates that it went around very quickly. This was also due to the media coverage around it, including from the initiators, whom I would like to thank once again. So we will use that experience in the run-up to the entry into force, for example through the channels of RCN, public bodies state government, to point this out to people. The Civil Affairs Divisions in the BES Islands have already been informed about the proposed change and we also support them with Q&A and general information. The aforementioned Dutch Caribbean Office will communicate with press releases on this subject. Since the Caribbean media report very precisely on these things, I also assume that this will reach the people on the islands. Then about the letter address. Mrs Van Ginneken asked: do people get a letter address when they are in the picture with the municipality and how do you support municipalities? The beauty of these questions is that they are all based on the interplay between legislators, co-legislator and the municipalities, because they do indeed have to carry it out. It is true that a municipality must act as soon as it becomes aware of the situation that someone is staying in the municipality without an address. That's not a possibility. It's an obligation. Under the Law BRP there is the possibility to register homeless persons and others without a home address at a letter address in the BRP. Registration of a letter address is not something entirely new for the municipality. It is more the mandatory provision that now comes underneath which makes the difference. In practice, as has been said, too little use is made of the possibility, and the right to register is converted into an obligation of its own motion. This does not change the nature of the work, but it is no longer voluntary. This was achieved following the public consultation of this proposal in May 2020, in which we had contact with the VNG and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, as mentioned earlier. That's where the experts come from. They're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u17	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the clear, supplementary explanation. My question also concerned what you can do to get people who are not represented by authorities in the municipalities quickly, so that they too can be provided with a mailing address.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u18	The problem is, of course, you can't act on what you don't know. At the moment when the municipality reaches signals in any way, the municipality must act on them. Let's translate: do you solve all the problems with that? No, but you're narrowing the odds of people falling between shore and ship, as previously indicated. If anyone checks in, they'll have to register municipalities. But that can also be done through other organisations. If organisations such as those for the shelter of homeless people and homeless people point out that someone is not registered, municipalities are still obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u19	Can I ask the Secretary of State for an undertaking that he will inform civil society organisations active in the field about this possibility and that they have a role in it, in order to get as many people in the picture as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u20	Yes. Sure. This is also something I will do together with municipalities and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs. It is also an interest of the organisations you mention that this is happening. At a time when there is no letter address and people are not entitled to legal provisions, problems are generally not reduced, but more so. So that's what we'll do. We will also ask municipalities to draw their network's attention to this. In doing so, I hope that we can really keep to a minimum the number of people who have fallen between ship and ship, on which a number of parliamentary questions have been asked in the past. So I'm willing to do that. In fact, Mr Ceder asked: what can we do to get signals about people who need a letter address more often and more quickly to the college? Actually, I've already answered that question. The moment the college takes note of that, it has to act. He also wondered what that notification letter address looked like and how it was checked whether someone was actually staying in the municipality. When applying for a letter address there is no decision-making period and it cannot be imposed. There is no question of an application in the legal sense when a letter address is entered on its own initiative. The decision period under the General Administrative Law therefore does not apply to the automatic inclusion. The obligation on the municipality starts from the moment the municipality becomes aware of the situation "which is therefore important' which requires the act of its own motion. This means that, as soon as the B&W College is informed of the presence of a person in the municipality who is not resident with a residence address in the BRP and is himself unable or willing to make a declaration, the College must of its own motion enter a letter address of that person. However, the municipality first has to establish the identity and legality of the stay in the Netherlands.This is of course important before it can register a person of its own motion. This test is done at the window by the municipality by asking a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u21	Thank you. I know these rules, too. That works for people who, for example, go to a permanent shelter. I know the situation in Amsterdam, but it will also take place in other municipalities. In doing so, someone goes to a permanent shelter and it is clear that they are actually staying in Amsterdam. At some point a signal is given to the municipality that someone is sleeping consistently at a certain address. That's true for a certain group. It is also nice that this law provides for this. But in my opinion, reality is more uncomfortable. You also have people who, for whatever reason, can't sleep at a shelter, but pull from couch to couch. That's a pretty big group. I'll speak to him on a regular basis. That bank isn't always in Amsterdam. The bank often stands where the offer occurs. In practice, this can sometimes mean that several municipalities state that there is no regular and factual residence in their municipality. If every city says so, someone falls between the shore and the ship. In my view, the law does not yet provide a solution for these cases, which, if you look at the problem, is a rather large group of homeless people. My question is how we can provide a solution. How can we encourage municipalities to still make the mailing address possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u22	That's a fair question. It is important that the BRP applies to the whole of the Netherlands. When someone reports and regularly stays in that municipality, even though he or she occasionally crosses the municipal border, the principle still applies that if you report to the municipality, you should be able to get a letter address. The characteristic feature of this group is that it is often not at a permanent residence. Because this BRP works for the whole of the Netherlands, that municipality should determine whether it is not lawful for someone to stay in a municipality. That's very difficult to establish. In order to prevent someone from being sent from the locker to the wall, there is an obligation that the municipality should record a letter address. In fact, you could say, it doesn't matter if it's the municipality of X or Y, because it's about access for those people to national public facilities. When people, what happens now and then, also reported to MPs who asked questions, and said that they should not be registered, a problem arose. When you're registered somewhere, it's logical that that's where you're most staying. That problem is solved in any case, and that's what this law provides for. Therefore, you can only link legal residence in the Netherlands, not a lawful stay in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u23	I can also follow you in that. But there is still a situation in which municipalities I take as an example Amsterdam and neighboring municipality Ouder-Amstel both claim, after research, that this person does not actually reside in their municipality. They point at each other and say: this person is only here once a week. Perhaps it is also true that the person really does not know where he is the next day or the next week. What is happening and what kind of municipality is inciting at the moment when each municipality states that that person is not actually staying with her? Which municipality will then be subject to this compulsory registration? I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u24	It seems very difficult for a municipality to establish that someone is not in that municipality. That's very hard to prove. For example, with homeless people and homeless people, that seems very difficult, because you should follow someone to establish that. I do not think that is the purpose of this law either, because the purpose of this law is to make registration possible, so that people can also get a letter address. That's important. It is not the task of a municipality to follow where people reside, but municipalities could invoke in the past that someone did not live in the municipality and that they therefore did not have to register him or her. It is not logical that someone should stay in Amsterdam as a homeless person and register in Maastricht. That does not make sense, but I would like to come back to the possibility of such a situation occurring in practice in the second period. How should we act? I will come back to this very specific issue in the second term, because it is an important point. In this context, Mrs Van Dijk wondered why municipalities are still failing to register letter addresses. Does that have anything to do with the risk of address-related fraud with the mailing address? It is not true that at the moment all the municipalities are failing, but it is also not true that they are doing well, because then there was no need for this legislative change. I think it is important to prevent people falling between shores and ships, because we should also be able to give these people a place. As pointed out in the debate with Mr Ceder, it is rather difficult to determine in practice where someone is staying most of the time or in which municipality someone is staying. I also know that this is why municipalities in the past said: "Then we are not going to do it. We can't determine it and then we won't." But I think you should weigh the harmed interests of the people without permanent residence and residence against the interests of the municipality, the government. They are people who are often already in a vulnerable position. By entering that letter address you actually unlock for these people the facilities that are also intended for them. We shouldn't be naive, either. We've been working on the nationwide approach to address quality for a long time. We also know, of course, that there is fraud. There are always people trying to circumvent the rules. It is difficult to determine exactly how big this problem is, but here too it is a balancing of interests, of proportionality. I believe that we should weigh these risks of fraud against the situation that people are not entitled to benefits. That is why we have come up with this bill. I say it again, but we do so in consultation with the VNG and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u25	Thank you for the answer. I understand the balance very well and we fully support it. My question, however, was, above all, whether we have sufficient idea of why the municipalities do not do it. What's behind that? I'm also going to rely on trust and maybe they have a very good reason not to if they're worried about something. In particular, that was the intention of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u26	In general terms, if a municipality suspects fraud, it can simply investigate it. That must of course be dealt with. But it was reversed here: because there is a general risk, we do not do it and we are not going to take that risk. As a result, a vulnerable group fell out of the boat. I say this very openly here, because every decision, every reasoning and every regulation has a shadowy side. But in this case, we are talking about vulnerable people. We live in a country where we have rights and obligations, and so these people have rights. If they can't cash it, because they don't have an address and therefore no one can know where to go for mail and stuff like that, I certainly find it disproportionate for that category of people. Hence the proposal. I'm not saying that the hesitations that municipalities had were always unjustified. Perhaps in some cases this is true, but if there is a suspicion of fraud, municipalities are also free to investigate it. Then Mrs Rajkowski asked how it is possible to register if you are not allowed to live there at all, for example squatters. The question was somewhat along the lines of Mrs Van Dijk's, whether registration could not be refused. Can't the municipality make a condition that someone shows a lease? The starting point of the BRP is to determine the actual situation. This means that someone must be registered at the address where he actually lives, regardless of whether he is allowed to live there. Conversely, registration at an address in itself does not give the right to live there. Moreover, requiring proof before a person can be registered is very undesirable, because, as has already been said, it can cause vulnerable citizens to suffer. It may then happen that someone cannot register at the address where he or she is staying. Those would then be untraceable to the government, because there is no address known. Think, for example, of the acute situation that, after a divorce, someone no longer has a home and temporarily moves to a holiday park. Often it is not allowed to live at such a holiday park. That's different regulations. But of that person, no address could be registered in the BRP, with all the consequences. Then there would be a write-out from the BRP. That is a very undesirable measure, because being registered at an address is the foundation of being able to exercise your rights and obligations. The non-registered in the BRP with a home address can have major negative consequences. There will then be no municipal responsibility for the unregistered citizen, so that no rights can be claimed. For example, the fact that someone lives in a squat or at a holiday park, which is not legal, does not change that. The municipality can simply maintain against that, but that does not mean that you would lose your rights on the basis of the BRP. That's two different trajectories. Then the experiments. Mrs Van Ginneken asked what is an equivalent alternative to the current BRP guarantees and whether it is true that the GDPR is the lower limit. She asked for a specific explanation. And she also asked how these experiments are monitored. These are general safeguards for the privacy of citizens and the GDPR is indeed the lower limit. That's correct. That's always true, even during an experiment. Part d is the possibility to extend the Registration Non Residents. We want to see if more data from non-residents can be kept and whether this is effective, for example about family members, but also about staying in the Netherlands. Mrs Rajkowski has tabled an amendment on the residence address and contact details. The aim is now to solve a social problem and to improve the view of migrant workers. An experiment should therefore also be able to address societal problems within these frameworks. Because an experiment is always limited in size, you can then determine whether it is desirable or not and whether it is proportionate. It is also monitored afterwards. Only then can such an experiment lead to a change of law. In fact, it is a very safe mechanism, one could say, to see if the policy objectives will actually be achieved, based, for example, on societal insights. Mr Ceder also asked about safeguards. He also mentioned the four-year term. That period of four years shall be a maximum period. For the sake of clarity: that seems very long, but if desired, an experiment with a shorter duration than four years can be developed in the AMvB, which is still passing. In the framework of the suspension procedure, your Chamber is still given the opportunity to give an opinion. You'll get to the point. This four-year period seems to be long, but this is not the case in practice, because the deployment of new facilities and new data processing facilities requires sufficient space for successive implementation, evaluation and possible legal anchoring. All this must take place within the four years. So you need time to start that execution, you may still have to adjust and there needs to be an evaluation. You also want to collect sufficient data and experience to draw clear conclusions from it for a certain period of time. If that experiment is successful, then a bill will have to be drawn up that will lead to amendment of the BRP Law in order to anchor it. That bill must be brought before the end of the experiment, including within those four years. That's why you need that time to do it right. Again, if you can do it faster, that's great, but this is why it happens that way. As far as privacy is concerned, the scope within which experiments can take place is exhaustively regulated in the experimental article. There is a limited list of the articles from which derogations may be made. Experiments outside these frameworks are not allowed, so there is a definition of what can and can be experimented on. Citizens' rights of access to their personal data cannot be waived. In no experiment can that be a component. A privacy impact assessment is carried out for each experiment, so that the risks of the data processing involved in an experiment can be identified and, if necessary, reduced. In addition, experimental decisions are sent to the Dutch Data Protection Authority for advice. Under the BRP Act, the AP supervises the BRP Act and all the underlying regulations, including these experimental decisions. Actually, it's completely secured: lower GDPR and supervision by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Then ask the last block before I come to the amendments, Mr President. These are all kinds of things, including Mrs Kathmann's questions, because of course she thinks: where are the answers to the questions I have asked? First of all, Mrs Van Ginneken's question on the BRP Development Agenda and the question of the extension of the data of non-residents within the BRP. As I mentioned earlier to the Chamber, progress is being made in the process of further development. This also applies to the extension of non-residents' data. A first step now is to register the contact details and the residence addresses. This is the top priority because of the problems with the view of migrant workers staying. That's the first thing that's worked out. As I said, my ministry is preparing the necessary technical adjustments. I informed your Chamber of the intention to implement this enlargement by 2022, i.e. next year. In the meantime, the BRP users will also be consulted on subsequent extensions. For example, the question of how to keep the data up-to-date. I will inform you about this in a stand-of-fact letter this year. Mrs Kathmann then asked whether there was a legal basis for the exchange data RNI. Yes. This also does not require any amendment of the BRP Act. The same applies to RNI data as to BRP data: customers, i.e. government organisations, may be authorised to obtain the data. Then there is Mrs Kathmann's question as to whether compulsory registration of migrant workers is possible from day one. Yes, that is possible, but it is not mandatory, because the Citizens' Freedom of Movement Directive makes this impossible. The first three months of stay are without registration requirements, except for the information contained in the ID document. It also leads to many administrative burdens for both migrant workers and other temporarily resident EU citizens, such as students, expats and so on. So it's possible, but it's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u27	I have two more clarifying questions, because the question was precisely about the following. As I have just said, there has been a rather unofficially quick formulation of a letter by three municipalities in which they actually say 'thank you for the amendment, VVD and everyone who has supported it, but we need more to solve the acute problem'. It was therefore mainly about the legal basis for the exchange of data by not only the government, but also by housing corporations or the DUO, for example. That's one question. Another question is whether we can still settle that duty on day one. Is that still possible? I would also like to look at the VVD, to see if they can add it to their amendment, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u28	So that obligation is not possible, as I said. That is where the free movement of EU citizens applies. The EU Directive applies to this. I shall return to your other question in second place. Then I come to the assessment of the amendments. First of all, the amendment on item No. 9 by Mr Cedar on adoption. I honestly didn't follow that adoption debate. At least I have not followed it literally, but of course I am aware of the social debate on this and of the considerations put forward by Mr Ceder and others. I also have a great deal of sympathy for that. I think it is very important for people to be children first, but later, of course, they will become adults and learn their own descendants. It is also the responsibility of the government to guarantee that right. I agree with Mr Ceder. At the same time, it is not for the government to store sensitive personal data in a basic registration if this is not strictly necessary. Actually, that's the trade-off. The storage of this data in the BRP is not strictly necessary, as the original data below can always be found in source documents. So in that sense, the BRP in this is not the source document. There are other documents underneath. Up to 16 years old, the child is represented under the BRP Act by his parents. That's how it's done. We assume that the parent acts on behalf of and therefore in the best interests of the child. That is the assumption behind it. This interest may be the deletion of such data if a request is made for it, that the confrontation with these data is perceived as painful by those parents acting in the best interests of the child. It may also be important to keep these data accurate, since it is attached that the data on the pedigree are visible. So that is in this situation, in the case of underage children, primarily to the parents. This amendment by Mr Ceder guarantees the situation in which parents do not act in the best interests of the child by depriving parents of the right to be removed. I must honestly say that you can look at this amendment from both sides. If you assume that parents always act in the best interests of the child, that, as I have just said, does not mean that that is something children themselves would want. In this sense, I have a great deal of sympathy for this amendment and I understand it. I would like to leave the judgment, also because I think it is a personal consideration of political groups and individual Members, to the Chamber. That is the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u29	The amendment in part No. 9 by Mr Ceder, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Not everyone has the amendment, so it gets copied for a while and then it gets spread. I think Mr Ceder would like to say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u30	I have heard the consideration of the Secretary of State, but I have also heard that it is up to the Chamber to judge. I think the chairman indicated it was dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u31	Ah. Did you give judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u33	Excuse me. I did say that wrong. There was some noise here on the line. The amendment in part No. 9 gets judgment room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u34	Very sharp and important. I didn't notice. Then there is the amendment to item No. 12 by Mrs Rajkowski and many others to improve the view of migrant workers. I think we all agree on the content of this amendment. If you take the Roemer report seriously, you have no choice but to look at it that way. So I have no insurmountable objection to the amendment, but there are several ways that can lead to this outcome. We can do that through an amendment. It is now well known from experience with amendments that they will immediately have the force of law. So that seems to be happening fast. But it's about solving the problem well. And the advantage of the BRP experiment decision is that you can adjust during and after the experiment and overcome any imperfections, which we also had when registering lifeless children. So if you ask me to give an opinion on this amendment, I would say that I prefer a route through the experimental article, as has just been pointed out. That is what I prefer, because it really allows you to fine tune and gain experience. And based on that, you can adjust it and roll it out. Nor is it the case that this amendment ensures that all of this comes into force more quickly than with an experiment. But it is immediately lifted to the level of a legal text. So you can already feel it coming: because I have no insurmountable objections, I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. However, I would like to make it clear that this very experimental article, which is now being included, offers the opportunity to tackle this type of initiative. So that is no less or less than a direct provision in the law. And if this is to cause problems in implementation, then the law needs to be re-adapted. So I'll give that to the Chamber in her consideration of the choice of vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u35	The amendment in part No. 12, Rajkowski and others Get judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u36	Yes. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 13, by Mrs Rajkowski, Mr Koerhuis and, in my opinion, others. This gives municipalities the legal obligation to actively inform other residents of the same address if there are new registrations at an address. The aim is to inform everyone about this. This amendment also has the direct force of law when it is adopted, and it is about something that municipalities have to implement. Apart from the amendment itself, I find it difficult to make a positive assessment of this amendment in this way, because those who have to implement it, the municipalities, are not involved. It is often said, even in this house: look at the implementation costs and look at what needs to be done. In fact, the municipalities have now responded to this and have informed us that they have serious reservations about this amendment. I have a passion for the BRP and for the other parts of it. But I have also noticed in recent years that we sometimes unnecessarily burden fellow governments or implementing organisations with tasks that they have to fulfil in order to achieve a noble goal in itself. I say that very strongly to Mrs Rajkowski. However, I do not think it would be very careful to put this into an amendment without our keen consideration of the consequences and without consultation with the parties. So I would also like to stand up here for the municipalities that are going to have to do all this right now. This can simply lead to a large increase in implementation costs. This can lead to many letters that need to be sent, especially in student cities, where many relocations take place and where often different accommodation units are located at one address. People could get a letter from the municipality every month stating that they have a new neighbor or wife. That in itself is nice to know, but the question is whether this is a task for municipalities to carry out. I do see the problem raised by this. So I have doubts about the implementation, and also about the support for that implementation. I think I need to mark that right here. However, I am prepared to work with municipalities to see how we can best avoid double registration at one address and its negative consequences. Municipalities could learn from each other. And perhaps there is also a possibility, I say to Mrs Rajkowski, to see whether this amendment can be amended or whether the vote on it will be postponed. Anyway, I'll leave that to your room. However, this would allow this to be covered, for example, by an experimental article. So this would then be the second... Well, if the first amendment is adopted, we don't have to experiment with it anymore. But then what is in this amendment to item No. 13 is proposed to become the first experimental article. In addition, together with municipalities you could see how to do this in the best way. So I have to discourage the amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u37	The amendment in part No. 13 by Mrs Rajkowski. Mrs Rajkowski, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u38	Thanks for the answer. It is true that it is about giving a signal. That signal may be a letter, as I just heard the Secretary of State say, but it may also be an e-mail; it doesn't have to be all by post from me. That signal does mean that the people who live there have certainty. Just now it was shared in the corridors that someone had experienced himself that a resident who would only come to live there later had registered earlier than was intended. This may have a major impact on the person who lives there, on bonuses, subsidies and other things. I'd like to give that assurance to residents. Now I am also sensitive to the implementation argument. I just heard the Secretary of State say something. I am going to think about that and I am going to discuss it with the other authors of the amendment. If we do not table this amendment or withdraw it, let me put it this way. Do I have the undertaking that this is one of the first things to be experimented with under the experimental article?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u39	Well, Mr President, I think this is an extremely good gesture from Mrs Rajkowski. I think we're trying to make good laws here. So I can promise you that. I would like to involve the municipalities, because they have to do it eventually. The problem you're describing is absolutely there. I didn't trivialize that either. Only, in the meantime, we have experience of legislation that if something gets the force of law right away and it doesn't work, we don't do each other any favours. So, yeah, I can promise we'll do that. We might be able to work that out together with the municipalities. A commitment is as much a motion as a motion, I say in your direction: it stands like a house. I think we can pick it up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u40	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u41	Mr President, I therefore have two further questions which I will answer in the second term. This brings me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u42	Thank you. Thanks to the Secretary of State. We've reached the second term of office. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I am looking at Mrs Rajkowski: does she need a second term? Mrs. Van Ginneken? Mr. Ceder? Yes. Mrs. Kathmann? No. Mrs. Inge van Dijk? No. I shall only give the floor to Mr Ceder for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also for the answer given by the Minister and for the explanation of the amendment. Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about the situation of homeless people, because I have seen at close range that they can end up in a kafkaesque situation. I am referring here to a group in which several municipalities find that the person does not actually reside in their municipality. That often happens, also because there are financial interests. Where a person is registered a benefit can be applied for or Wmo or debt relief. Somewhere there's an incentive for repressive testing here. I am looking for a solution and I hope that we can achieve it today: how can we determine where someone should be registered of their own motion when several municipalities say that the person does not actually reside in the municipality? Is that the biggest town? Is that the smallest town? Is that where the person was first registered? I think this is important. We can help a lot of people with this today. It's an invisible group, but I think this is really a crucial point that's been scrambled over for years. So I hope we can find each other in this. In that context, I have a motion for an experiment, but that is not in keeping with the hope I have of clarifying it today. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities do not always register at a letter address where they do not consider it established that a homeless person is actually resident in that municipality;]] [[Whereas the nature of the problem makes it sometimes difficult to identify the municipality in which a homeless person resides;]] [[Whereas this should not relieve the government of its responsibility to provide a letter address for this target group;]] [[Whereas the legal challenge of a municipal decision inherently implies that a person has no address for a longer period and is therefore not accessible to the public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a short-term experiment to ensure that people without permanent residence or residence can obtain a letter address from a municipality, anywhere in the Netherlands, even if it is not possible or difficult to determine which municipality this person actually resides in,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35648-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u44	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his appreciation of the motions and to answer one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ceder had once again asked the question that was in my set of two in the second term, so I certainly could not forget it. I'm about to answer that question, but I'll start with the ladies, with Mrs Kathmann in this case. Mrs Kathmann asked me about the exchange of data from the RNI between the government and, for example, DUO or a housing corporation. Is that possible? For DUO this is quite clear, because it is also a government organisation. There is therefore also a legal basis for the exchange of such data. The housing corporation doesn't. Housing corporations are not part of the government, so they don't have easy access to the BRP either. It is up to municipalities to agree with the local housing corporation on possible data exchange from the BRP, with the starting point of restraint. There must be a demonstrable need to share that data. There are examples of this in practice, for example in the case of residential fraud. Municipalities then make agreements with corporations, but there must be a reasonable reason for this. Then there is Mr Ceder's question, and indeed his motion, which is in line with each other. We already had a debate on that. The great thing about that debate is that we can continue to map and visualise the issue. As you know, the deliberations on this law are also part of the overall law and the way in which it is looked at. It is therefore very good that this is also discussed in this debate, so that I can explain it very precisely once again. It is important that there is an obligation to register people. That's what it starts with. That could be in the municipality where the person reports. That could also be the municipality where the person is found. This may be the municipality which, for example, is informed by a homeless interest organisation of the fact that a person needs a letter address. One municipality only has to do it, and the interest of those without permanent residence and residence prevails. If, therefore, the situation described by Mr Ceder does indeed arise, that is the situation that is not exactly to determine how often, where, when, etc., municipalities are expected to make arrangements among themselves for this situation in which a person is registered. If, in principle, all the municipalities I mentioned in this connection are able to do so, there can be four or even more municipalities that refuse to register, a complaint can be lodged with the local Ombudsman. This can be done by the person concerned, but also, for example, by the homeless interest organisation, or by a doctor, or whatever. We will discuss this with the VNG as a BZK. Should the situation arise that all municipalities refuse, because they think "we do not want to" or "we do know that it is an obligation, but it is then with the neighboring municipality or another municipality," they all end up running the risk of getting baksail from the administrative court. So there's a solid legal guarantee in there. Then I come straight to your motion in which you ask the government to start an experiment in the short term. I am very much in favour of experiments, but in this case this experiment is therefore superfluous because the law and what we are discussing is such that municipalities have to do so. We're just not telling you which city that is right now. This question, which you put on the table with this dilemma, does not have to be answered here, but one of those municipalities has to sign up. I therefore have to discourage the motion because it is superfluous. I'm very much in favour of experimenting, but in this case, it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u46	I have previously indicated that a homeless person can indeed go to court, but from experience I know that it can take a year and a half, and sometimes with a little pain and effort two years, before there is a ruling in a procedure. De facto, that person in those one or two years has no line with the government, because as long as there is no ruling, no municipality will feel appealed to register that person. That's what we just don't want. You want someone to have a line with the government. I understand what you're saying, but I also indicated that I believe that we all find it unacceptable and undesirable that someone should only be clear after two years. That is the situation now, even if we adopt this law in this way and prevent such cases. And these kinds of cases occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u47	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u48	My question to the Secretary of State is therefore the following. My motion calls for an experiment in which a decision is taken in the short term. That's a very short time. That's definitely not like taking a step to court. If it is not a foreseeable period, it is not in the interests of the person. That is why this motion should be given a different judgment. If several municipalities have to come out by mutual agreement, perhaps with the Ombudsman, there is still a risk that they will not come out. What's that? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that a person still falls between ship and ship and that we simply do not want to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u49	Thanks again to Mr Ceder for this point. Like I said, we want to shut it down. The law is perfectly clear: municipalities must register. I am in contact with Valente, the organisation of homeless people and homeless people, but also with Mr Blokhuis, who is currently arranging shelter in many places. I am also in contact with the local authorities, I would like to say to Mr Ceder. The entry into force of this law really creates a new situation. I am actually saying the same thing as when the law was amended for the registration of lifeless children, when that question was asked to me by Mr Van Raak. He asked me at the time how I'm gonna check that out. I trust that municipalities will do so with this new legislative amendment, because they run the risk that they will catch up with the Ombudsman or the administrative judge. I cannot rule out this happening, but I would like to call on all of you to report the situations in which this is not going well. That can be done with parliamentary questions if necessary. Let us assume that the law is perfectly clear. The situation you describe may well occur; it is not an unthinkable situation. It may well be that municipalities have to deal with each other and that the balance sheet should then be drawn up where, for example, they are the most resident or where the notification took place. If these municipalities don't come out, they're at great risk. I am in contact with the VNG on this, as is the homeless organisation, which, of course, is getting signals about this. I appeal to them to come back with the signals when they get them, just as we got them in the elaboration and implementation of the registration of lifeless children. This could lead to an amendment of the law. One or two examples could lead to the problem being solved, because everyone is aware that it is not in the interests of this vulnerable group to send someone from the locker to the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u50	Very briefly, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u51	I do have a bit of a problem with the Secretary of State's response. This has to do with the fact that this law is a clarification, even in the explanatory memorandum, of existing policies. These municipalities already knew or should have known that they should have registered these people. This law does not create a new situation, but is a clarification of what should have been happening for years, but which has not been happening for years. In this context, there is a new situation and therefore a new solution. My question is: could you perhaps come back to the Chamber in consultation with the VNG and Valente, and perhaps in the short term? I think that they have ideas about which municipality is going to take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u53	That is perhaps the first municipality where a first application is made. That's fine, but there has to be clarity at some point. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u54	Thank you. The question is whether you want to come back to the Chamber on this point after having had discussions with the homeless and the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u55	First of all, I think it is good to note that if municipalities after this change of law do not register on the basis of the trits I mentioned, that is not a trits of some sort of orderality, but those are side-by-side possibilities where someone can sign up and act counter-empty. So they're acting against the law. So you run quite a risk as a municipality. But I would very much like to make a commitment to Mr Ceder to inform the Court of Justice of the case, as he describes it, and again: it is certainly not inconceivable to discuss it with both organizations and the Chamber. I don't know if he wants that before the law gets into the vote, because we're in a bit of a hurry, I'll be honest with you. I would suggest that you could also vote on the law and possibly hold the motion until you have received the letter. That seems to me to be a more orderly way of doing things, because then we will have no further delay with this law, which must enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u56	I would just like to look at Mr Ceder, whether he wishes to continue his motion or think about it for a moment. Think about it. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-19.u57	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the bill, the amendments and the motions. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, like the MPs and the viewers at home.
