ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the General Financial Reviews, 35925. This concerns the note on the state of the government's finances, the million-dollar note of 2022. I recall that speaking time includes that of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the rulers of Finance for their presence today. That is normal, of course, but perhaps it will help the good atmosphere if I mention it explicitly. I understand all the fuss, but the world is going on: Glasgow, Europe, corona, and there is also a budget that is not entirely politically poor for 2022 of a outgoing cabinet. And missionary or not, a cabinet always has to answer for itself, so today too. Let me start by asking the Secretary of State for Finance what he intended yesterday with the dividend tax action. I read some in the news. Is this really true? I'd like to be more specific. Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, the climate summit in Glasgow came to an end, without the outcome that the world needs to avert catastrophic climate change. The necessary action to keep the global temperature rise below 1.5 degrees Celsius has shifted to the next summit in Egypt next year. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance finds this, with many, deeply disappointing and unacceptable. I would like to hear whether the cabinet agrees, especially since our Prime Minister in Glasgow called for action, action and action. I have two specific questions on this issue today, which are directly linked to the responsibility of the rulers of finance. Following pressure from civil society organisations, the cabinet decided to follow the English proposal to reduce public facilities for foreign fossil projects. We are pleased with that. Two years ago, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance put on the table a proposal to decarbonise the export credit insurance industry. I assume the Secretary of State for Finance is going to carry out the cabinet's choice generously. I'd like to hear from him today how the cabinet is going to do that. Secondly, I ask the Secretary of State for Finance in turn whether he shares my appreciation that this is a very welcome but also a first small step in what I call the 'decommissioning of the fossil welfare state'. This is the whole of implicit and explicit fossil subsidies for the extraction and use of fossil fuels. We have been pursuing this issue for decades. Now is the time to put an end to this. I would like to hear the response of the Minister of Finance. Mr. Chairman. The necessary climate transition is part of a broader sustainable transformation. This requires a precise and decisive policy on the broad prosperity of the government. Two years ago I made a big point of this on behalf of my group. As I said at the time, can the millions note be replaced immediately for that annual broad prosperity note? I am also making this point now, and especially now, because the most important steps need to be taken in the formation, as mentioned by the Study Group on Budgets in their latest report. Although in the latest Millions note the cabinet also mentions the broad prospect of prosperity, the result is not yet convincing. How does the Minister of Finance assess his own efforts in recent years in this respect? What are the lessons for the future here? Mr. Chairman. That perspective of broad prosperity brings three benefits. The starting point of meaningful thinking about social progress is, so to speak, the whole social map. Just looking away from major societal challenges, as the Netherlands on the right has done over the past 30 years with climate and nitrogen, that is not possible anymore, nor the transfer of such accounts elsewhere or later. Explicit political choices are needed to steer the budget on that and then to account for it later. Finally, the perspective of broad prosperity forces greater consistency by directing all public policies, not just money and taxation, as far as possible and focusing on the chosen policy objectives. Think of the corona aid, but also the compensation of the increased energy prices. Let those public investments render as much value as possible for the transition towards higher broad prosperity. Here we need the Minister of Finance. I therefore ask him to respond to the following reasoning. As has been said, the deep reform of the Dutch economy requires first of all a clear, consistent and social transition policy. This requires good public institutions for coordination and new markets, such as green hydrogen, strong pricing and harsh standards. Over the last few years, the Rutte III cabinet has missed this step and turned the issue of transition to a sustainable inclusive economy into a financing issue: Growth Fund, Invest-NL, pleading for pension funds to bring big money here. It is reported that Rutte IV will start soon with a much larger transition fund. Mr. Chairman. No misunderstanding: much more public funding is needed on a large scale. We need an entrepreneurial government, but firmly anchored in a coherent transition policy. If you do not, then public and private funding will wait for business that you now see happening everywhere in the energy transition and the cabinet will run the risk of spending resources inefficiently. That is why I have just made another big point about phasing out these fossil subsidies; that is an integral part of it. If we are not careful, these big transition funds will lead to an old-fashioned bail-out of private financiers who have benefited from environmentally harmful activity for years. Precisely here, therefore, the healthy look of a vigilant finance minister is needed, with Article 3.1 Compatibility Act in hand. What's that look today, I'm asking him. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the cabinet is struggling with this broad prospect of prosperity is also reflected in the phrase "feasible and affordable" from the mouth of cabinet members on climate policy. The fact that the costs of late or non-action in relation to the climate crisis are phenomenal must make a real difference here, precisely from that broad long-term view of prosperity aimed at budgetary stability. And that's not what the Cabinet does. I advocated earlier in previous debates the need for green and sustainable sustainability zones to give that perspective hands and feet. So here too, I miss the Minister of Finance. Then where is this comprehensive welfare view of the longer-term budgetary position? Here too, I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance how he assesses his own legacy in this matter. Mr. Chairman. Another important element of broad prosperity is the limitation of inequality for the Green Left Group. It doesn't look good either on the radar of this cabinet. I'm focusing here on the housing crisis. Over the past few years, the cabinet has watched over the accumulation of housing shortages. For lower and middle income rent or purchase is difficult to reach, especially in large cities. Short and good: that landlord's tax... we've been working on it for so long... should leave the table as soon as possible. With the Hermans motion, the proceeds of that landlord's tax have been reduced by 500 million, but where is the government's initiative to abolish that tax altogether? If you're so brave to go last minute for the dividend tax, I can think of something better. Along with the Labour Party, my group is considering a motion. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Where the Netherlands has so far emerged well from the corona crisis, the picture is completely different worldwide. I hardly read anything about it in the Millions Note, while the world's economic disaster has disappeared far from it. A strong international initiative of the cabinet fits in with this. What initiative is this, my question to the Minister of Finance? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has responded alertly to the economic consequences of the corona crisis. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has largely supported the successive support packages, albeit with the necessary reservations. Four questions on this point. In the budget, we see that this approach to the corona crisis, i.e. the economic side of it, is still falling short of a more than 11 billion by 2020. The question is what the cabinet is going to do now, now that the virus is re-emerging and restrictive measures have been put in place. At least I can assume that the cabinet is very careful about whether jobs of people and businesses are still at risk due to possible measures in the coming period. I would like to hear what we can expect from the cabinet on this point. Mr President, second. My group has been particularly concerned, and continues to be concerned, to this day, about the particularly significant effects of the corona restrictions on the cultural and creative sector over the last year and a half. Our assessment is that this sector has suffered considerable damage. I therefore repeat the plea made earlier by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, namely to set up a recovery programme for the cultural and creative sectors and to make this part of the Dutch recovery programme within the framework of the recovery fund. I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for Finance about progress in collecting deferred tax debts. This is now beginning to be discussed. We will undoubtedly discuss this further in the Tax Plan, but I very much appreciate a good answer from the Secretary of State today. This is a bit of a listener, but he knows it. My final point, Mr President. The fight against the crisis has inevitably cost many and many billions. More often than not, my group has advocated that these billions should be used as a transition. That didn't happen. Does the cabinet share the view of my group that this was ultimately a missed opportunity? Should we not have listened much better here to the European Commission, which, at the start of the corona crisis, advocated this in the context of the green and just recovery approach? Here, too, the question to the Minister of Finance as to what the lessons have been learned. Mr President, Europe. This Minister of Finance has been Orthodox in Europe in recent years. He liked to take other countries the measure and joined in the company of the frugal four. The European debate on the fight against the corona crisis, the future governance of the euro area and the budgetary rules has moved forward. My group does not have the impression that the Netherlands still plays a productive role here. It's gotten pretty quiet. I invite the Minister of Finance to break that silence today and explain his position. Is it perhaps true that I would hope that there will be new economic and financial insights, now that Germany too has left the Schäuble era behind? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. My group finds it rather special that the Netherlands, as the only country in Europe, has not yet submitted a corona recovery programme to the European Commission. In May my colleague Farah Karimi already had the debate on this with the Minister. Now, six months later, there is still no plan, despite the Council of State's encouragement to do so. Why is that? Does this Minister perhaps shy away from confronting the European Commission because, at the very request of this Minister, it lays down conditions for aid, and how crazy is that? In particular, about the housing market and the labour market? The mortgage interest deduction: there it is again. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The current budget has now been substantially modified following the debates in the House of Representatives. Can the Cabinet provide an overview of all changes since the offer on Princess Day? It's hard to keep a good overview. I am thinking in particular of the package relating to the increased energy bill: we are already ready for a third letter of amendment to the Tax Plan. I'd like to hear if the cabinet can help us with a good picture. Mr. Chairman. For a outgoing cabinet there is quite a policy-rich budget on the table here. The additional climate benefits are in fact a repair of previous delays caused by the cabinet itself by failing to respond in time to the Urgenda rulings and not to provide sufficient budgetary space for the purposes of the Climate Agreement 2018. Well, better late than never, let's just say. But it is not ideal for controlled budget implementation and efficient use of resources. What role has the Minister of Finance played here in recent years? Mr. Chairman. In the Millions note, the cabinet is paying extra money for a stable rule of law. My group supports that. It also fits with the Rosenmöller motion two years ago. We are also pleased to note the new means of implementing the Klever/Plaumen motion to strengthen legal aid. The cabinet is right to make a serious point of the fight against serious crime. Mayor Halsema of Amsterdam in September called on the cabinet to invest even more recently in the hunt for black money, criminal money. Unfortunately, the Netherlands functions as a crossroads for billions of criminally earned money. The European Union has now put in place a new package, including the establishment of an anti-money laundering authority. New steps have been taken there. That's good. The Minister of Finance himself recently took the initiative to investigate trust offices further. I'm fine, too. We believe that more is needed, as the reports of the General Court of Auditors in the past and the annual National Risk Assessment Laundering of the WODC have shown. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is calling for a substantial increase in its approach. The investigation carried out earlier by the Minister himself in connection with the Snels/Groothuizen motion on the relationship between our tax system and associated money laundering risks has been carried out rather lightly. This is where the spade really needs to get deeper into the ground. That approach should include at least the further identification of the main money laundering risks and the time and resources available to regulators and investigation services to pursue them. In practical terms, I propose that the Minister of Finance respond to this request in order to deepen the annual anti-money laundering monitor. Think of unauthorized and foreign financial institutions, virtual currencies, underground banking and thus abuse of our tax system. Next, I would ask him to make additional budgetary room for the recruitment of specialised personnel in the search chain. I'd like to hear his reaction. Finally, Mr President. The greatest injustice revealed by the Rutte III cabinet concerns the treatment of parents in the supplement scandal. The suffering caused to parents and families is great, far-reaching and sometimes unmanageable. The resignation of the cabinet in January is justified. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supported the outgoing cabinet by launching a major recovery operation. That's going to be difficult. Many are still angry and unhappy today. The Secretary of State is reviewing this approach. What is the situation here, I ask her. I will come back to this on behalf of my group, including the Tax Plan. I hope we'll have a closer look at that recalibrate operation. Let me say here on this point, Mr President, and I invite the Secretary of State to respond to it, Mr President, that the road to rapid recovery and healing can only be found with a combination of great professionalism and, if possible, even greater compassion. The responsibility here lies, of course, with the Secretary of State, but the High Colleges of State could also contribute to this. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Mr Backer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u5	I would like to congratulate Mr Vendrik on his contribution, which I recognise a great deal. I just have a question about the design. He touches on the important point of investment. He says that you can achieve transition investments not only with money and that those funds are now there, but perhaps not yet enough. What infrastructure does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance see in this regard? Of course, in the 1980s and 1990s, we had ideas about a national investment company, the government as an entrepreneur. In fact, it has been phased out over and over again or never created. What infrastructure does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance see in concrete terms in order to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u6	Unfortunately, I believe that the Cabinet has failed to make the choice under the Climate Agreement to organise a strong implementation structure. That is not the case at the moment. In my opinion, you need to call that implementation structure "a transition authority" or whatever name this beast deserves to bring all parties, government, market players and financiers together for the major infrastructure projects, the new energy transitions you need. This requires the industry, the network companies and the energy companies, as well as the market, civil society organisations and municipalities; the whole bimbam. We don't have that place. What we have seen, though, is that I have also made that point. The cabinet has done a lot of work on Invest-NL and the National Growth Fund. That is okay in itself, but a transition issue is a policy issue. It is not primarily a question of financing. That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u8	Such an implementation structure is not just an office with a bell. This includes a transition policy. Praise, standardize, and if there's really no other way to subsidise. The cabinet constantly reverses that order. Those are my two anchors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u9	Any short questions, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u10	No, Mr President, we will continue this interesting discussion at another time for the sake of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. For some years now, the Millions Note has a title. That wasn't the case in my day, by the way. In the last year, it contained the concept of spring power. That's perfectly right. The creativity and adaptability of Dutch industry and citizens have brought about a remarkably faster recovery in the Dutch economy than we all thought possible last year at this time. The continuing corona crisis can be identified, apart from specific personal, intriguing circumstances, as an exogenous shock to a healthy economy. A healthy economy in which the previous government has invested through flexibilisation, policy reforms and restrictive fiscal policies. This led to the Netherlands being among the best performing economies in the euro area before the start of the corona crisis, and it has also somewhat simplified life for the current government, with emphasis on "somewhat." There were sufficient buffers, which made it necessary to have a supportive policy. And, of course, mistakes have been made. Of course, certain measures would have been different with today's knowledge. But with a "I only" policy you don't control land, and ash is burnt peat. The conclusion may be that the Netherlands has taken the road to recovery relatively faster than other euro area countries, thanks to the government, Dutch business and the overwhelming majority of the Dutch population. I think that should be emphasised at the beginning of these financial considerations. Despite all the circumstances, inherent in life, including economic life, it is not a bad start for a new cabinet to be formed, which must give substance to the second concept contained in the Millions Note, namely "build further." There are quite a few policy areas that call for attention, for which solutions need to be sought and to which the present, in a sense, low-policy Millions note does not always have an answer. There is no other way to do that, but then we will have to go through with it in 2022 and next years. The VVD Group wishes to emphasise the following points. It should be clear: in twenty minutes not everything can pass the review, so it is a choice. My contribution to the financial considerations is divided into two blocks this year, namely the location climate and the Dutch earning capacity, as well as the return to a normal budgetary process. First, the earning ability. That was in the title of the Millions Note 2021 and I should have been in it this year as well. My group believes that the new cabinet should pay all its attention to this and lacks concrete initiatives in this area, which may not be possible because of its missionary status. But it is of enormous importance for the future. Increasing ageing leads to lower tax revenues and higher healthcare costs and other related expenses. This, combined with productivity growth that has been stagnating for years, shows that an increasing proportion of national income goes to transfer expenditure, leaving less money to finance climate policy.................................................................................................................................................................. Let alone that there is money left to increase incomes or reduce burdens on citizens and businesses. That's not a good thing. Last year, the National Growth Fund was set up to improve earning capacity. To my surprise, I read that the fund focuses too much on economic growth. The VVD Group thought that this fund had been set up for this purpose. But it was a plea to impose even more conditions on investment. I don't think that's the right way to go. The Advisory Committee of the Growth Fund is critical enough, I believe, and certainly has an eye on the sustainability aspects, which were called for. But for an improvement, it cannot be left to set up a fund alone. It's gonna take a lot more than that. Let's start with business. I drew attention to this last year; for both large companies and listed companies as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. A lot of things didn't make that plea. During the Financial Reviews on the Bezuidenhout industry was hardly mentioned. But the money has to be made somewhere to finance all these fun and less fun things? No, you don't have to, Van Ballekom, you're old school; the money's free. In fact, if we borrow it, we get money, so I was told last year. Well, there's a lot of risks there, but that's what I'm going to come up with in my second block, about shelf life. What does business, both large and small, need? Initially, a reliable government with a consistent policy. Last year we had an intensive discussion about the Job-related Investment Discount, the BIK. I was charmed by this with my group, as was the Secretary of State at the time, as an instrument for stimulating business investment. It is also a welcome instrument, now that many companies have taken on their own assets during the corona crisis. The government did not want to engage in the discussion with the European Commission. That is a pity, because I should have seen whether this would be considered State aid. I doubt that to a great extent, but okay. For this purpose, the general reduction in the employer's premium, the AWf premium, was proposed for the General Unemployment Fund. With lower wage costs ahead, there is in theory more money left for investment. This is a somewhat less direct relationship, but lower burdens are always welcome. But do I understand that there is rather an increase in the burden on businesses and an increase in the burden on businesses, apart from the extension of the first share of corporation tax by €150,000? The reduction in employers' costs is out of the question. The AWf premium is going up again. In fact, on top of that, corporate tax is increased rather than reduced. The broadening of the base is achieved, but not the reduction. The dividend tax will not be abolished, but the burden-aggravating elements of that package will be implemented without hesitation. My colleague, Mr Geerdink, will be more and more expert on this during the discussion of the Tax Plan than I do, but in my view that is the wrong way forward, and that does not contribute to a reliable, predictable and consistent government policy, let alone to improving the investment climate and earning capacity of the Netherlands. This is extremely worrying. My group would like to have a reflection on this, especially now that Shell has apparently decided to move its headquarters to London. In addition, the locational environment and thus also indirectly the earning capacity of the Netherlands benefit from matters such as strengthening innovative capacity, investing in good education and research, facilitating the energy transition and improving accessibility. Resolving these challenges requires a wide range of measures. It does not always have to involve large-scale investments, but it can in many cases be much more effective through a standard policy or a proper pricing. Large-scale investment can be counterproductive and can lead to tension on the labour market and lead to scarce resources. Mr Crone wishes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u13	I see it. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u14	You'll get help, Mr. Chairman. I was very touched by Mr Van Ballekom's statement that climate policy must be standards and CO pricing. I think that's fantastic, and I'll deal with that later. But of course it's all right. Business needs to know where it is going, but why is this cabinet just putting down jars? Pots for the Growth Fund, pots for climate. Because the cabinet has no ideas, the cabinet dares not do that standardization and CO-prize. So will we ask together that these jars, what is then, be open to standardisation and CO pricing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u15	I always wait with interest what the new cabinet comes up with in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u16	I support you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u17	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u18	I support you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u19	Yeah, normalization? I am just saying that large-scale investment programmes are not always the solution to a problem. You can also act normal. For example, you can say to farms that they reduce CO emissions within five years and that measures will follow if they fail. This is different from investing massively in certain programmes. That is what I am asking for, and that is what I am asking for for various reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u20	The same goes for the jars for nitrogen, the jars for nature, the jars for education, 8 billion? I added it up. This cabinet has 60 billion in jars, apart from the 90 billion for corona; 60 billion in jars because it apparently has no idea. But you have a great idea now: CO pricing. But that must also apply to nitrogen. It should also apply to education. Make sure you have good policies, then the money is needed. In my view, we share the view that that should be the order: first policy, then money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u21	Finally, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u22	I think we all agree on that CO pricing. That's also in the package Fit for 55. We are going to talk about that, but that is a very different matter. I believe it is a good thing. Secondly, Mr Crone, all those jars are accounted for through a budget. So we are there ourselves in what way those funds are spent. So it's not like there's a game and the government can do whatever it wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u23	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u24	Those jars are managed by experts. Experts must say: do the railway at Delft instead of the normal budget weighting, which you just asked for. You asked for a normal budget balance. I hope this budget balance doesn't take place when you've got jars first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u25	Of course it'll take place. If that is presented to Parliament via the budget, the First and Second Chambers will eventually be about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr Van Ballekom has just spoken about the latest developments in corporate taxation. I heard him say, "That's the wrong way." Now I have the impression that what has happened recently about the tax on profits and the new plan that is now on the table are a result of the Hermans motion, the chairman of the VVD group in the Second Chamber. Do I now have to conclude that we are witnessing a conversation between the VVD-First parliamentary group and the VVD-Second parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u27	No, I'm not. In my speech, I wanted to point out that the main benefit for business is a consistent and reliable government policy, and that if you are committed at some point to abolishing dividend taxation, business will respond to it. That didn't happen. That is not my party, so I do not need to discuss this with the people on the Bezuidenhout. But then we go to the BIG. It didn't go through with it either. Then we go to a reduction in the AWf premium. It goes on for a while and then it gets raised again. That is the message I give not only to this government, but to every next government. Businesses cannot anticipate it if it is different than expected each time. That is the most important message we are sending.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u28	However, I understand that Mr Van Ballekom also spoke about the latest proposal on taxation of profits. That is what my question was about; his remark 'this is the wrong way' was about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u29	I think that if you constantly confront business with higher burdens, business constantly confronts it with different regulations and constantly molests business because it doesn't pay taxes and things like that, that doesn't improve the investment climate in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u30	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u31	Who is this plea addressed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u32	The plea is addressed to all those who still need to be convinced that we are right on our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u33	And the VVD-Second Parliamentary Group is apparently part of that as well. He's still to be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u34	I think my colleagues on the Bezuidenhout do not think otherwise than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr Van Ballekom himself is touching Shell's departure and the locational climate, also one of my themes that I have been hammering on for years. Do I hear you say now, I ask Mr Van Ballekom through the chairman, that if the dividend tax had been abolished, Shell would not have left the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u36	No, you misunderstand. I said, as I said in reply to Mr Vendrik's questions, that industry needs, in particular, consistent policies. The failure to abolish the dividend tax will not have helped in the process of balancing business. I will not say that it is the only cause; there are many causes. If you say at some point I read that yesterday, Chairman.... that it is a blessing for Shell to leave the Netherlands, if you dare to say such things, then that does not contribute to a warm relationship between government and business. That's where it has to be earned in the end. My group is concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr Van Ballekom says that there are other matters than the dividend tax. Of course, yesterday we saw a strong piece of fiscal panic football from the cabinet to try to retain Shell with the dividend tax. Slightly naive as far as I'm concerned. But of course that decision has already been taken and there are several reasons for it. One of the causes also confirmed this morning in The Financial Daily by Shell, by insiders, is that the General Civil Pension Fund, the ABP, has publicly dumped billions of Shell shares. It just said: we're getting out. If your main shareholder in the Netherlands damages you so much and throws your shares on the market, I can imagine that, and this is evident from that article, that doesn't exactly increase the enthusiasm to stay in the Netherlands. How does Mr Van Ballekom see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u38	I am not dealing with the investment policy of the General Civil Pension Fund, which is carried out by the APG, where I have worked for years. That was the case once, but this is one of the perhaps annoying points that a company takes in a final decision as to where it will make its investments in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u39	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u40	I fear, and I'm not the only one, that Shell will not be the last to leave this country...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'll get to that, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u42	Then how would you like to stop this exodus, I would ask Mr Van Ballekom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u43	Finally, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u44	I address my speech not only to you and those who need to be convinced, but also to the cabinet and the next cabinet. And I hope they do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u45	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u46	Large-scale investment can be counterproductive as it can lead to tension on the labour market and increasing scarcity of resources. This could have an impact on wages, put extra pressure on wages, give extra impetus to inflation, and that will be reflected in interest rates. And when it goes through the interest rates, suddenly the money isn't free anymore and Leiden is in trouble. Speaking of inflation, it is currently 6% in the United States and over 4% in the euro area. The reports that it is only a temporary increase in inflation are stunned. That is a sign on the wall and an additional reason to return to a normal fiscal policy with what is now called anchors. What are the views of the Finance Minister in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u47	I would like to return to Mr Van Ballekom's story, climate in relation to taxes. Mr Van Ballekom said that you can't just raise corporation tax every time. However, I would like to remind you that in recent decades corporate taxation has mainly fallen and has now risen slightly historically for the first time in decades. But Mr Van Ballekom also mentioned the dividend tax and the unpredictability that that would create for business. How many companies in the Netherlands are affected by the dividend tax according to Mr Van Ballekom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u48	That's a limited number of companies. But, again, that wasn't my concern. I am not specifically concerned with this dividend tax. I'm not specifically concerned with the Job-related Investment Discount. That's not what I'm talking about. I am talking about a consistent policy over a long series of years, on which industry can base an investment plan. That is not possible if it is one time, or even one month, faced with higher AWf charges and the next month with lower ones, because that's how it's convenient. That's what I'm calling for. My call is not just about the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u49	No, of course it would have been better and indeed more consistent if this cabinet had never proposed the unfortunate plan to abolish the dividend tax. Then that uncertainty wouldn't have arisen either. But I was wondering what Mr Van Ballekom meant by "business." That's what I'm looking forward to. For when we talk about the BIK and certainly also about the abolition of the dividend tax, we often talk about a limited number of companies where that ends up. The dividend tax is not really a company tax at all. It is a tax on shareholders of a number of very large multinationals involved in this. The business community is, I suppose, more than just the multinationals, isn't it, for the VVD? Isn't it also about the SMEs that have to deal with very different problems in this country? This has no advantage at all in abolishing that dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u50	I would like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that I also drew attention to this last year. That's what I said in my speech. Not only for large companies, not only for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for listed companies. I also explained at the time why that is so important. The large company is not just a company that does not pay taxes. And listed companies aren't just companies that don't pay taxes. It is also companies that generate huge amounts of employment, and that is what I said last year; I am not going to repeat all of that; I am not going to repeat that to a large extent to generate work for small and medium-sized enterprises. They also largely protect the innovative character of the Netherlands. Look at Chemelot and look at Brainport Eindhoven. That is where the money is made, and that is good cooperation between large companies, the listed company and small and medium-sized enterprises. You can't pull a thing out of that and say, well, they're annoying people so we'd rather lose them than be rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u51	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u52	Many studies show that the number of jobs created by large companies, multinationals, is very limited and that jobs are created mainly elsewhere. However, I note that Mr Van Ballekom and I agree on one thing, because I just heard him say: large listed companies are not only companies that do not pay taxes, but they also do all kinds of good things. In any case, we agree on the fact that these companies pay no or far too little tax, which is also evident from numerous investigations. Shell, for example, has not paid taxes in the Netherlands or has hardly paid them. In any case, we agree on this point and I hope that Mr Van Ballekom agrees with my group that you should do something about it, regardless of the positive, valued words Mr Van Ballekom is talking about the same great business life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you. Mr. Van Ballekom continues his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u54	I am curious to hear what Mr Van Apeldoorn is referring to. I think that listed companies generate much more employment than is currently proposed. And if you think those companies pay too little tax, then you change the law. That's what we're here for. If that has a majority on the Bezuidenhout and on the Voorhout, then we get on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u55	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u56	But don't accuse them of using regulation. Mr. Chairman. It may be too far to mention examples of how to solve problems without a massive investment programme, but let me give one example and take back to last year's General Political Reviews. At that time, my group chairman noted that the effects of investment in education may be less robust than desired, in the case of a screaming lack of teachers. The proposal was then: it might be a good idea to reward longer work extra. According to a recently published study, longer working can also be stress reduction. In the case of labour shortages in many sectors, it is important to seduce the unexploited labour force due to part-time work and to create more hours. My group wonders whether this idea has been implemented in the past year. I'm sure the Minister knows an answer to that. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to my second block, because apart from the creative example I have just mentioned, I was actually already on the subject of large-scale investment. Of course, investments are necessary, as well as a creative palette of measures. But I think it is important to return to a regular budgetary process. I'm not alone in this. Unisono advises the Council of State, the General Court and the Central Planning Office that it would be a good thing, adding: even if Brussels does not have to, it is a good thing. And why? Not because I am a austerity fetishist, not because the EMU deficit in the Netherlands is completely out of control. No, as the Netherlands, we are still below the 60% standard and returning, serving ice and again, to a budget deficit below 3%. However, we must prepare for the next headwind when the current headwind has finally fallen. According to Mr Schalk, this is about every seven years. A counterwind that can come from a completely different angle, totally unexpected, especially in the event of rising inflation, difficult to sustain global public and private debt. I just have to refer to the Evergrande debacle, with possible fall-out. We also underestimated that fall-out at the start of the subprime crisis; I hope that this time it will not be too bad, unfortunately, again, there is a sharp rise in corona figures and contaminations and geopolitical turbulences. In short, we are still not on solid ice, and this must certainly be of interest to this Minister of Finance. Moreover, in the absence of budgetary anchors, the democratic anchor is missing, because budgeting is a choice. Recently, and this is just one example, the exorbitant rise in gas prices, in an instant, earmarked 3.2 billion for compensatory measures. Very understandable, but two days later the price had already fallen by 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u57	There's a lot of interruptions. May I suggest that we let Mr Van Ballekom finish his story and then put the interruptions in one go? Please continue your speech, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u58	Two days after that 3.2 billion was reserved, the gas price fell again by 30%. I wondered if the amount of compensation would be adjusted. In the absence of anchors, such considerations are apparently no longer made, but perhaps I am mistaken, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u59	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u60	Oh, fine. In my philosophy, the government cannot be seen as a buffer for every setback. The restoration of discipline is necessary in order to ensure long-term sustainability, particularly in the light of the rising costs of care mentioned above, which my group has called attention to over the past year and which have recently been the subject of a thorough report from the Scientific Council for Government Policy. That is not the end of the matter. Ageing, as I said, has several consequences. In short, the budgetary rules and anchors work disciplinedly. Careful consideration is necessary and leads to a more efficient use of tax money. Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, the trees do not grow to heaven. If only they did, because then we would no longer need a parliament, but that aside. The question arises as to how the necessary investment programme should be financed as an ex-adjunct inspector of the Rijksfinanciëninspectie (Inspection of Finance) a board which, incidentally, will be celebrating its 100th anniversary in ten days' time, you are of course in favour of the royal road. The government processes the investments in the budgets and the final word is for Parliament. That is what the Council of State and the General Court of Auditors agree. But what is reality? There is no room for massive investment programmes without increasing the burden. Of the total expenditure of 350 billion, some 90 billion goes to social transfer expenditure, 90 billion goes to health care, and 90 billion goes to education and local authorities. In short, 80% of total expenditure is involved. This is a result of a long-standing shift towards, in particular, transfer expenditure, at the expense of expenditure in, for example, infrastructure and defence. For the latter category, we have not fulfilled our international obligations for years, yet expect everything from our men, if you may call them that, in correct wok language. I didn't think "Humanities" sounded like it, so I did "mens" anyway. In fact, defence expenditure, expressed as a percentage of GDP, is falling to 1.3%. Of the 30 NATO countries, the Netherlands belongs to the group of the 5 worst performing countries. Mr Putin and Mr Xi Jinping will welcome that, but I am ashamed of that. And then I haven't even talked about security, the fight against crime and cyber security. However, this is a recognised priority, for which, in my group's view, sufficient resources should be allocated to avoid further damage to the reputation of the Netherlands, which is, of course, also linked to the investment climate. To illustrate the erosion mentioned, the following. Some time ago, we were able to hear in this House that proposals are being made to further reduce infrastructure in order to finance the increase in payment rates on parental leave. I found that remarkable, especially since there is already a structural deficit of 1.2 billion in infrastructure and maintenance. And I'm not just talking about roads and bridges. Or think of abolishing the landlord's tax offset by increasing corporate tax. Or abolishing the 30% rule for expats. That's what some parties are thinking. Well, that will only increase the further exodus of Dutch companies abroad. But don't despair, there's always a party who thinks they can turn the case with an exit ticket. I'm not in favour of that. Mr. Chairman. We are lucky that the State's interest expenditure is about 3 billion. Any increase in interest rates means an additional 3 billion in expenditure. At the beginning of this century, the State spent more than twice as much. As mentioned above: know that inflation in the US and the euro area is rising and has reached the highest rates since 2008. This will ultimately affect interest rates on government bonds, including interest rates on government bonds from triple-A countries. Given the limited financial space and necessary investments, the Bezuidenhout has been suggested to finance an investment programme for one-off expenditure with a sound foundation through a recovery and transition fund. This is not an ideal solution, but it seems necessary because of the erosion outlined. It is also necessary because my group is not in favour of a further increase in the burden on citizens and businesses, which is too often taken back. Certainly not at the present uncertain time, in which many are still faced with the consequences of the corona crisis. Especially not now, because of the new massive increase in contagion rates, with all the consequences. Especially now, because creditors will gradually start thinking about the recovery of arrears. The Minister of Finance was not directly enthusiastic, it appeared during the debate on the other wood. I can tell you, Mr President, that I wasn't exactly enthusiastic either. But I don't see any other solution so soon. Does the Minister see this other solution and, if so, which one? Or is he still willing to work together to set up a tightly regulated fund for one-off investment expenditure in order to meet the important challenges that we face and which I mentioned in my speech? The sometimes-construction is a detour, an apparently necessary detour. But if it were right, the projects to be financed, such as the National Growth Fund, would be accounted for by the departmental budgets in the event of unconditional allocation. I would like confirmation from the government, because that would reassure my group, because it does not affect the Court's budgetary law. My group awaits with interest the response of the Minister and the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Then it is Mr Crone's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Crone!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Van Ballekom. I heard that the VVD is going to come back on buffers and build tight standards for fiscal policy, whether it be expenditure or relief. However, we have learned from the banking crisis and now we have learned from corona this morning, and it was in the paper this morning that the economy is now bigger than before the corona crisis, precisely because we have not cut back. We have a current account surplus from here to Tokyo. This is also in Europe's recommendations: build up your surplus on the current account first, because there is investment space there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u64	I also underlined this in my speech. The fact that we have come out of the crisis much faster than many other countries is because the previous cabinet has had a very good policy on it. We like it very much, also towards your party, Mr Crone, that this is how it happened: to build those flexibility and buffers in bad times. My argument is that, because the economy is running so well, we should react in the same way again, so build buffers for the next headwind. Of course, it does not come from the financial angle and perhaps not from a pandemic angle, but from a totally different and unexpected angle. I think it's very good to prepare for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u65	But my question was as follows. We have a surplus on the current account. This means that we invest too little in the Netherlands and that we invest abroad, that we are an interest-bearing country. Then we're gonna do two things. The government cuts, does not reduce the burden and does not take over the investment deficit of citizens and businesses and so the economy is growing less than needed. I'm in favour of growing the cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u66	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u67	Does he agree with that? He did not answer my question about the current account surplus, Mr President. That now goes to 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u68	I would like to have a very clear exchange of views with Mr Crone on this subject with a cup of coffee. Because if the Dutch citizen has more money to spend, he no longer buys a Japanese car but a German car and then Germany has an even bigger surplus on the balance sheet. So I don't believe in that. You say that there are cuts and that there is no reduction in charges. I do not think you will find my party on your way when it comes to reducing the burden on citizens and businesses. We will not block it, absolutely not, and we are always in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u69	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u70	With that, the government can... You're right, they can also buy abroad. But the government buys the Dutch healthcare staff, the investments in infrastructure and the investments due to climate change. This must be done, otherwise the current account surplus will become even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u72	I believe that the current government has implemented a huge investment programme and expenditure to mitigate the impact of the corona crisis. I think that has led to huge expenditure. I'm okay with that, too. We also had the luxury of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr Van Ballekom makes a warm plea for a restrictive budgetary policy, and so we know Mr Van Ballekom. But he just said: pay attention, we need to prepare for a new crisis and we need buffers for that. I would say: as long as we are still well below that 60%, which is a fairly arbitrary standard for national debt relative to gross national product, then those buffers are still there. Besides, if you want to create buffers, you can also raise taxes. But apart from that, I do understand, from what Mr Van Ballekom has just said, that Mr Van Ballekom agrees with my group that in times of crisis as a government you need to jump in and spend more to compensate for the loss of demand in the economy. That is exactly what happened during the corona crisis, which, as Mr Van Ballekom also points out, has brought us out of the crisis much faster than we had all thought. Mr Van Ballekom therefore agrees with us that there should be no restrictive budgetary policy in this case. But now it is true, for example, that European budgetary rules do prescribe that. How does Mr Van Ballekom see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u74	Because of the corona crisis, these budgetary rules have been temporarily put on strong water, and rightly so. The government has done what we Dutch citizens and companies could expect. They have intervened and have tried to mitigate the crisis and its consequences with specific measures. But that doesn't mean that, now that we're lucky back in the circumstances that economic growth is stronger than we expected last year around this time, I think that that too was your feeling... you don't have room to build buffers in such economically good times. I think we are doing the right thing, because there are still a lot of uncertainties, as I outlined in my speech. These uncertainties could lead, for example, to additional public expenditure on public debt financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u75	A brief question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u76	If Mr Van Ballekom is consistent, this should have happened during the previous crisis. Mr Van Ballekom himself pointed out the subprime crisis, the financial crisis of 2008. At that time there was also a massive demand drop, but then the then cabinet opted for austerity, thus prolonging and deepening the recession. Are there any lessons Mr Van Ballekom can draw from this? Would that not mean that the budgetary rules should at least be adjusted so that you can take more account of what you need to do in such a situation of recession and massive demand dropout? Because that 3%, the maximum budget deficit, is then a standard that, frankly, does not make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mr Van Ballekom, brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u78	You also said last year that this does not make any sense. We shall then have another discussion on this matter. It does make sense, otherwise it wouldn't have been in the treaty. If I had, I would have acted in a different way. I have learned one thing, Mr Van Apeldoorn, and that is that the financial crisis of 2008 is completely different from the crisis we are facing today. And, as I have said, the next crisis may be of a completely different nature. A different government policy fits in with that. I believe that both the previous government and this government have made the right choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u79	No, I'm gonna narrow it down now, Mr. Van Apeldoorn, because we've been running pretty long. Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You asked to wait until the end of Mr Van Ballekom's speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u81	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u82	...so I'm doing all twelve interruptions at once. No, I'll limit it to two brief questions. One is an affirmative question. I believe that Mr Van Ballekom has argued that there should be a sound budgetary policy. We still have the Growth Fund. That is a fund that is valid for five years and has been running for more than two years now, still without an institution law. Does he agree with me that this institutional law should be introduced as soon as possible so that we can distribute the funds properly? That is the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr Van Ballekom...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u84	And the second question, Mr President, concerns the point made by Mr Van Ballekom in my direction that I would have said that there is a crisis every seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u85	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u86	Oh, excuse me, I'll get an explanation in a minute. I thought he was pointing at the Joseph cycle. I get that very well: seven fat years, seven...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u87	Skinny years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u88	... skinny years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But I wanted to put a question to that, especially when it comes to the financial side. It seems that Mr Van Ballekom's speech focuses mainly on economic conditions, but of course we are also dealing with security and the like. Does he agree with me when it comes to sound budgetary policy that the 2% standard, for example, should also be dealt with as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u89	Let me answer the questions one by one. At the National Growth Fund, I am in favour of it. I have also asked the Minister when there would be a new fund to finance the transition that the final commitments of a given project run through the budget. If that is the case, my group has fewer problems, because that will maintain the budgetary policy of the Chamber. In fact, we can make a better assessment, because we also have the consideration of the expert committee that has assessed these projects. Makes our job easier. So in that sense, if the Minister confirms that, I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u90	The second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u91	That's right. I just wanted to refer to the seven fat and seven lean years. I hope we have seven fat years ahead of us now. You never know, but the hope is there. Then hopefully at the end of those seven fat years we will have enough fat on the bone to overcome some setback.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u92	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u93	As far as the first question on the Growth Fund is concerned, we are actually asking the Minister the same question: will the institution law be in place so that it is properly regulated? Then there is the second question. I did not just ask about those seven fat years, but I asked whether the VVD Group would agree with my group that the 2% standard should be submitted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u94	We await with interest what is in the new cabinet programme, but I personally told you in my speech that I am ashamed that investment in defence expenditure is falling rather than rising to 2%. I believe that this is not and cannot be done, because it is international agreements. In view of the rather turbulent geopolitical situation, I find it rather unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u95	With regard to the latter, I cannot fail to note that the VVD has been in power for ten years in the highest possible place. So what did you do? But that's not really what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u96	We've been working with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u97	Go ahead, Mr. Vendrik, quietly finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u98	I wanted to ask a slightly more optimistic question, because I can tell Mr Van Ballekom that there is room for fresh reflection on budgetary policy in the VVD. We all want to go back to normal. This is good for the budgetary process, efficient use. That is not the point, but I hear that the VVD has also learned from the corona crisis that an active budgetary policy is sometimes really necessary. The other element is "" and perhaps Mr Van Ballekom would like to respond to this "" how that fiscal policy should fit into the structural trend in the coming years. That is the trend of ageing. Ageing means, among other things, that we save ourselves against the cliffs. See today's low interest rate. That's not because of the SVB maybe for a little bit of...... but the structural trend of excessive savings is overall in the economy. The government is one of the few parties that can balance that. That, in my view, is the point that Mr Crone raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u99	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u100	So the debate on the budgetary rules in Europe has to go about this. How are we gonna do that for the next ten years? Does Mr Van Ballekom agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u101	I think it's hard to talk about excessive savings in the healthcare sector when you see how spending in the healthcare sector is increasing. It's like 90 billion now. We also have 90 billion in transfer expenses. Then we also have 90 billion for education and regional authorities. This means that more than 80% of expenditure is included in these three categories. There has been a report published by the Scientific Council for Government Policy on the care sector for a reason. So I don't think we're dealing with cuts in that sector, quite the contrary. However, we are facing an increasing demand for care. I think it is very important to address that question in a decent manner. I am not a care sector specialist, but I hope that good answers will be found in the cabinet in the new government agreement in order to keep that increase manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr. Vendrik, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u103	I very much agree with Mr Van Ballekom that we need to look closely at the cost of care. I also found the report of the WRR interesting, but that was not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u104	You said there were cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u105	My question was about possible consequences that ageing should have for our fiscal policy. I am thinking first of all of the European budgetary rules for the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u106	A brief reply from Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u107	I think I remember this, but the Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief, may correct this, because he has dealt with it more recently, and that at the time I was still active in Brussels, the ageing population was already taken into account in the recommendations addressed to the Member States. So a provision has been made for that. I think there are some good advice on the table. The costs of ageing are taken into account in the considerations that are being made in Brussels. That was the case in my time and I would be very surprised if that were different, but Mr Vijlbrief left Brussels a little more recently than I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u108	Then I'm going to see Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mr Van Ballekom says: yes, this crisis is now resolved and we cannot predict the next crisis. Well, I don't know if the corona crisis is over yet. That might be a little optimistic, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u110	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u111	... but you can of course outline the contours where the next crisis will develop. As you say yourself, inflation has not been as high as it is today in 15 years. It's rising rapidly. The interest rate is still very low. Something's gonna have to happen there sometime. If I look now at what is the greatest medium-term risk at the moment, then the southern European states that have sovereign debt of 150% or more take Italy............................................................................................................................................................................................................. That also has enormous repercussions for our economy. So if you look at where the next crisis might arise, it is a scenario that is at the top of the list. How does Mr Van Ballekom see that? How would he protect the Netherlands from that, as it were?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u112	Given the developments in the Netherlands, it is quite clear that if you stick to the advice from Brussels and if you stick to the rules we agreed with each other when we exchanged the guilder for the euro, that policy will pay off. I always hope that this is a good example for other countries to follow. Now I don't have concerns in all countries. For example, Italy has a surplus on the trade balance. Okay. Italy hardly borrows on the public market. The Italians lend the money to themselves. So each country has its specific weaknesses and strengths. So I do not think you can say at one stroke: the next crisis will break out in the south of Europe, or in the east of Europe, because they have violated all the rules there for years. I don't think so. Moreover, the VVD fraction does not have a glass ball to tell us where the headwind will come from. That would have been useful, because then we knew exactly what to do, but unfortunately we don't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr Otten, one final question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u114	No, we don't have a glass ball, but we can of course predict that if interest rates rise, which you yourself indicate, there will be repercussions, especially for countries with very high public debt. One option could be to say, like Mr Crone, but with a different view: if inflation increases, the money becomes much less valuable. With current inflation, the money is half less in ten years, half less in purchasing power. Then don't take the blame down too much now, because that's mostly the goal. Pull it a bit more like hedge to a slightly higher level, and then you'll pay it back with unvalued euros. Isn't that a much better idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u115	Finally, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u116	That's a very good idea. But then I would ask the government to run a deficit of 120%, because then inflation will rise even faster and you will be out of the crisis even sooner. So I think that's voodoo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u117	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden, on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. Again a few decades ago, an old acquaintance of the VVD, Mr Hans Wiegel, objected to the politics of illusion. He had a little brother killed by smearing syrup with beautiful or unrealistic figures and he attacked PvdA'er Den Uyl. Fun for the young viewers was Wiegel's conclusion: "Sinterklaas exists, and there he is!" Well, in the Note on the state of the National Finance that we were presented with Princess Day, we read that the Dutch economy is remarkably good for it. Remarkably good. More vacancies than the unemployed, historically few bankruptcies and a forecasted economic growth of 3.5%. Those are sounding results. With that kind of figures, the Minister of Finance can usually be in his right mind. Then the country's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u120	I see Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u121	Sinterklaas does exist, so I wanted to give pepper nuts to Mr Van der Linden. The Van Agt-Wiegel cabinet ended with the biggest financing deficit deterioration of all Cabinets after the war. So you need to see who you're quoting, the economical finance minister of the Labour Party or the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u122	Then Mr Crone will have to wait for the rest of my speech. I think I'll have some pepper nuts later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u124	Mr President, I said that the country is doing well. That is, however, until you realize that the total package of covid measures in our country amounts to about 82 billion. At least that was when we thought that the aid packages would be phased out on 1 October. In the meantime, new support packages are on their way and there is not yet a start of a perspective on returning to normal. Then it is not so strange that when the minister shoots at the Dutch economy with such a money bazooka, we write black economic figures. But free money doesn't exist, and neither does free good news about the economy. If you zoom a little further, you will not escape the questioning and major comments on the current developments in our economy, in the economies around us and in the financial markets. They give cause for great concern, concern about future stability, the sustainability of our financial system. That is what we want to see today, the big picture. Of course it is tempting to talk about the actuality of the day as well, such as how it is possible that after the disastrous Brexit by the British, our Shell now departs from the Netherlands to those British. But we will confine ourselves to the main themes, the meta-perspective. We are, of course, helped by the inexplicably long formation and we do not need to talk about the compromises after weeks of quartets on the Zwaluwenberg. Mr President, the big picture is inflation. That has already happened a few times today, even in the debate between Mr Otten and Mr Van Ballekom. High inflation with a long-term character. Everything is getting more expensive, everything is getting more expensive quickly, and it doesn't seem to stop there for the time being. House prices that increase year by year with double digital values in value, daily necessities that quickly become more expensive. A price explosion of raw materials and of construction costs directly related to them, and energy costs that are rising. In both the Millions note and in response to questions we have asked, the Minister still assumes, like a number of international institutions and the main central banks, that this high inflation is temporary. We believe that this high inflation is not temporary, but long-term. Not "transitory," as central banks want us to believe, but permanently, and that we have landed in a period of superinflation as we have seen more often in history. Let's get some numbers. Japan recently recorded the highest increase in consumer prices in 40 years. The United States is facing inflation which has not been so high since 1990. In China, too, inflation indicators have not been so high since the mid-1990s. Mr. Chairman. We don't think that's a temporary thing. There seems to be something fundamental going on here. We believe that these price increases, these inflation, are all temporary, are the main causes. Instead of denying reality, it is wiser to think through what long-term high inflation, superinflation, means for the Netherlands, for example for households, companies and pensions, for our prosperity. For wealthy people in society, it is currently golden times. Cash is no longer king, the money from the wealthy flows to anything that the central bank can't keep up, to hard assets. No wonder. When the money supply grows so strongly, month by month, when the money press rotates unlimited, then the value of anything that cannot be printed can increase, expressed in money. Look at real estate, look at stocks and see cryptocurrency like bitcoin. In recent times, wealthy people in these markets have been making such high returns that even a decent job can't be countered. So much for the wealthy. Then the less wealthy ones, for example small savers. For them, it's a whole different story. Anyone who wants to buy rents and spends a year working the sloppy and putting aside his hard-earned money finds after a year of saving that he or she can buy more house than the year before. Worked and saved for a year, but less house for more money. The exploding energy prices also ensure that a decent bite is taken immediately from what can be set aside monthly. Okay, that's gonna compensate the cabinet occasionally now, and that's $3.2 billion, and that's noble. But ask the Minister, is this compensation effective in times of superinflation? Isn't that mopping with the tap open right now? Of course this is going to ease the pain for people with high energy bills, but isn't it a drop on the glowing record if everything becomes significantly more expensive? The logical consequence of the current energy crisis is that food prices will soon rise significantly. And then what do we do? Incidental food compensation when food becomes scarcer and more expensive? And what's next? Practically every sector feels the pain of rising energy prices, from food to industry and logistics. Uncontrolled inflation expands like an oil stain. And what does superinflation mean for our unique Dutch pension funds? Our wealthy pension funds, like wealthy ones, achieve excellent returns on their investments in hard assets: in real estate and in shares. But that's only part of the investments. They are not free in the investment choices. Our pension funds are currently obliged to invest a large part of their portfolio in government bonds, but they are both uneconomical and rather risky at the present time, in which we are exposed to increasing systemic risks. Our interim conclusion: asset inequality is growing more rapidly than ever before, assets that can easily invest their currency benefit from hard assets and less wealthy people do not see their income rise with the massive price increases. They're losing. While pension funds have good returns on part of their investments, they are at great risk of their mandatory investments in government bonds. Mr. Chairman. Superinflation is a major problem, even if the Minister does not agree with us that this is currently the case, and it seems to be a keeper. In order to reduce, curb and curb this superinflation, we normally look at the central banks, in our case the ECB. The ECB has the instrument to intervene under normal circumstances, the instrument of monetary tightening and interest rate increases. But that is exactly where the problem lies, as has just been discussed. You can't do that right now. In fact, the ECB has been in a great deal of trouble. For years, the ECB let the reins of the money presses celebrate at an unprecedented rate and pumped far too much money into the economy. In doing so, the ECB gave some addiction-sensitive southern European countries exactly what they need to recover from: even more debts. In just five years, the ECB increased the total amount of euros in circulation by half, from EUR 10 trillion to as much as 15 trillion. 15 trillion is EUR 15,000 billion, an increase of 50% of all our money in circulation in five years. Of course, interest rates are extremely low for a long time. If you create billions and billions of new money day in and day out of, extra printing out of nowhere, if you keep stacking debt on debt and quacking economies but keep raising debt, then in the long run a high price will be paid for it. Then that affects confidence in the system and that can quickly degenerate into disruption of the economy and society. A sensible policy would normally be to increase interest rates now in steps, but the ECB cannot do that now. Today's extremely low interest rates are necessary for many southern European economies with huge public debt to survive at all. If the ECB were to do what is necessary, an increase in interest rates, it would be quite catastrophic for all those countries with huge debt mountains. They'll be in deep trouble right away. That was already for covid the hot iron, but by covid and the support packages that each country set up, that hot iron is now glowing, smoldering and starting to smell. Our conclusion, I told you, is that the ECB has got itself in a lot of trouble. The ECB, like many central bankers, is imprisoned. Captured in the own web of European and global debt. Caught in a typical catch 22, in a choice between two evils. On the one hand, the choice to keep pushing money and to keep the superinflation going, on the other hand, the choice to raise interest rates, which means that half of southern Europe goes bankrupt and a domino effect is created. Mr. Chairman. It's only a matter of time before this shrieks. If we see this coming now, the question for us here today is: is there any way to change it and does the Netherlands still have any influence on it? The answer is short and powerful: no. In the game that is now going on at the ECB and the Fed in America, DNB and the Dutch government hardly have anything to do with it. The next question for us is: if we see this coming, what wise policy would be the Minister of Finance, the cabinet's, whether or not it is a missionary, and the State-General's? What wise policy would it be to prepare the Netherlands to come out of the ECB's catch 22 as a country with limited clothing? We would like to put three important questions to the Minister today. The first question. What are the worst case scenarios and plans that DNB, the minister and his advisors have prepared, should they also conclude that there is long-term high inflation, superinflation, in the coming years? In other words, how is the government prepared for high inflation which is not transitory, but is permanent? What steps will be taken in the interests of the Netherlands? Then there is the second question. Does the Minister recognise and recognise the previously outlined catch 22, in which the ECB has become involved, of, on the one hand, the rise of high inflation by an overzealous money press, and, on the other hand, the acute problems that arise for southern Europe in raising interest rates? How does the Minister see this catch 22 situation being broken? Then there's the third question. Does the Minister share our concerns about the risks that our pension funds are increasingly facing due to structurally high inflation? Is it not time, in anticipation of the uncertain and comprehensive pension agreement, to speed up our pension funds' freedom to choose whether or not they want to invest in government bonds? Mr. Chairman. I'll finish my contribution in the first term. My group looks forward to the answers of the rulers, with an active reminder of the words of former Senator Wiegel, when he warned about the politics of illusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u126	Mr. Chairman. The corona pandemic has disturbed the world not only medically and socially, but also financially and economically. Debts have increased to a large extent worldwide and we have also entered an economy characterised by a high shortage of goods and services. This is the case worldwide and there is also a widespread shortage of staff for the Netherlands. Budgetary policy has been lifted from its anchors. For good reasons, because the various countries, including the Dutch, have saved the economy by taking on debts beyond the normal rules. The Dutch economy is back in full swing, and that brings the government debt back below the 60% standard. Here, therefore, is a positive appreciation of what the cabinet has done over the last year and a half. Mr. Chairman. How do we proceed with debt policy? Over the past year and a half, does it prove that expansionary policies and economic growth can create debt without being hindered? An interesting thought that does a lot of money at the moment and which is also extremely tempting, because it makes the primal task of politics much easier to make choices. Can the CDA Group ask the Cabinet to reflect on this, also in the light of what the Council of State said about the need to return to a fixed anchor system? Mr. Chairman. My group believes that the current situation requires a cautious and pragmatic approach. Pragmatically, as long as interest rates remain low, it gives us the opportunity to borrow money and invest it in the economy. The biggest challenge facing us is to invest in climate policy. If we do not or do not do enough, we will have an unacceptable change in the future. Because of the need for stewardship, as the CDA sees it, the greatest urgency and determination is needed here, and this is where our financial efforts will have to focus first of all. If the corona pandemic is already disrupting our system, what can we expect in the event of major shocks due to the changing climate? We must therefore be pragmatic in dealing with debt policy, but also with caution, because the success of a broader debt policy depends on the side of low interest rates. Interest rates are so low because of the abundant presence of money in the world, and because of the central banks' policy to keep interest rates low, in order to promote economic growth. Mr. Chairman. In traditional economic terms, interest rates can remain low if inflation does. This is where the shoe starts to wring, because inflation is on the rise. This is due to the scarcity that we now find in the footsteps of the pandemic: scarcity of raw materials and scarcity of people. Scarce leads to higher prices. In this respect, the sharp increase in gas prices is indicative. What is the government's view of this development? The CDA Group would like to call for a policy of careful reduction of charges. If the scarcity increases prices, the government must respond by reducing the burden on citizens and businesses. This is in line with thoughts developed in the medium-term opinion issued by the ESC earlier this year. May I have a response from the cabinet? At the same time, it is economically inevitable that, if inflation continues to rise, interest rates will rise. That is, of course, the responsibility of the ECB. As we all know, there are the necessary foot-and-mouthers and clamps. This could lead to a resumption of the debate on the responsibility for the debts of the Member States. Here, too, the CDA Group advocates a pragmatic and cautious approach. The Netherlands has major political and socio-economic interests in Europe and thus in a strong Europe. That becomes more than less when you look at, for example, the climate issue. But this trend is also reflected in economic policy. In his book A European pandemonium, historian Luuk van Middelaar writes: "We are going to an economy in which not only the factor of money, but also the factor of power plays a role." Mr. Chairman. If you agree, and I am, it will have consequences for the way you look at Europe. The Netherlands is a giant in terms of money, but a dwarf in terms of power. For power, we need Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u127	I have a quick question. I hear the CDA spokesperson say here that a pragmatic look is needed when debt forgiveness is discussed in the event of rising interest rates. I was just talking about inflation and rising interest rates. But do I actually hear in this pragmatic attitude that we should be open to loosing a large proportion of the very high public debt of southern European countries when interest rates rise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u128	You're going very fast now. In your speech, I think you have just painted the core of the issue in a sharp way. We are faced with choices that will be very fundamental. I do not yet have a complete view on how to do that. I see with you the consequences of interest rate increases for the stability of a number of southern Member States. We know what that has meant for the stability of the euro in the past, when it was discussed earlier. This has led to immense tensions and has even led us to a situation where we were wondering: can the euro's system be continued without it breaking up? At that time, this led to aid measures, to which certain terms are attached; is it or is it not the carrying of each other's burdens? We're heading off to a situation like this, if it's against it. That has already been said this morning, by you and by Mr Otten. It's possible. We don't know for sure, it's possible. I don't have a ready-to-use answer to how to fix that right now. I hope it doesn't come up. I disagree with you as to whether you should remain a member of the eurogroup and stay in the European Union. I do not think that the Netherlands really has any choices in this without going into a process of impoverishment in another way. Geopolitical developments call for a strong Europe. Economics and politics are increasingly interwoven. We come to that point in a dilemma. I don't have an answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u129	Short question, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u130	If you do not yet have an answer to that, could we agree that we should ask ourselves at the front to be fully informed about scenarios that occur in the event of rising interest rates, for example by letter? Then we can think in good time about the choices and the consequences of those choices. Could we find each other in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u131	Yes, within the limits of what a government can do in public. You talk about peace in the financial markets, of course, you talk about peace around people's wallets. If you give too much openness through all kinds of scenarios, you create a bigger problem than is necessary. But like you, I'm fascinated by the thought of what kind of situation we're gonna be in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u132	May I ask Members to keep the questions and the answers as brief as possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u133	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll try. I listen with interest and also with pleasure and approval to Mr Van Kesteren's speech, which is characterised by pragmatism rather than dogmatism. Mr Van Kesteren says: we must do what is necessary for the climate transition. If this is to require large-scale investment, we must do so above all. In doing so, we can also incur debts if interest rates remain low.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u134	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u135	My question is: should Mr Van Kesteren's reflections not also have an impact on European budgetary rules, which are characterized by dogmatism rather than pragmatism? I have already mentioned the 3% rule, which is rather rigid and does not take into account circumstances, interest rates and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u136	This follows on from what I have just said in reply to questions by Mr Van der Linden. We are faced with questions for which the answers we had no longer fit. This applies to the way you deal with surpluses and debts and the way you look at standards for Europe. Are they still valid? They're from a different time. Perhaps, given the nature of their economy, you should confront Southern European countries with different standards than Member States in a different situation. I think that we should be open to new roads, because the path we are taking now is going to cause major problems in a number of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u137	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u138	Finally. Good. I hope that Mr Van Kesteren will join me in asking the Minister of Finance to reflect further on this. I think those new answers need to be found, because we don't have them yet, and I don't hear them from this cabinet either. I therefore hope, with Mr Van Kesteren, that we will perhaps hear a start on these answers today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u139	I too was pleased to hear what Mr Van Kesteren just said about climate. He has put that very well and very well. But my question is about Europe. Should the ECB see an opportunity in a given situation and be forced to raise interest rates, this could have consequences for the budgetary position of a number of southern Member States. That's definitely a risk. But in recent years, has not the debate on European solidarity, on how to deal with the corona crisis, been the time to get ahead of this situation? Does Mr Van Kesteren agree with me that we may have missed a chance there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u140	Well, I don't know. In the end, a solution was found for that corona crisis. That solution is also in the climate plans. The solution is that we pay the bill with each other, to say it in plain Dutch. That, of course, always comes down to that in the European debate: do you bear the burden with each other, or do you not? This is partly determined by what is feasible in a country. How much support is there for a given policy? I don't think that solution could have been found in the corona question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u141	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u142	Of course, it has been pointed out from all sides that the corona interventions of the euro area's national Member States are very far apart. Germany was a frontrunner, the Netherlands blew up a lot, but the southern Member States had very limited opportunities to intervene. The differences have been striking. For this reason, the Corona Restoration Fund was also intended to help those countries to get out of the situation of shrinkage more quickly, restore growth and thus improve their fiscal position. So my question remains: didn't we miss a chance there? Shouldn't the Netherlands have taken a different tone here by the mouth of this Finance Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u143	That's too much looking back on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u144	I propose that Mr Van Kesteren continue his speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u145	I know that Mr Van Kesteren is capable of a better answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u146	Okay, I'll owe you one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u147	We are not so much from looking back, but from looking forward. What is very important in managing the economic situation is managing expectations and timing. On page 63 of the unproclaimed blue booklet, which I always carry, you can see that the Dutch EMU debt is among the lowest in the euro area. We're linked to Southern Europe, whether we like it or not. That's a fact. I agree with Mr Van Kesteren that we cannot leave the EU tomorrow. I wouldn't think that wise either, but if you take so many countries to an expensive restaurant where everyone orders a steak and you buy a cheese sandwich, when you do share the bill, then you're not completely rational. So it is the perverse logic of participating in the euro area that forces us to increase public debt, now that interest rates are zero, as inflationhatch, to compensate purchasing power with a reduction in the burden, while in the medium term the money is less valuable and we have to pay off that debt again. So we need to focus on the denominator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u148	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u149	Does Mr Van Kesteren agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u150	Yeah, to a certain extent. It's part of the choice package we have. That's what I meant just when I said that we basically stand for a new framework of thinking: how do you deal with debt and how opportunistic can you be in it? At the same time, what Mr Van Ballekom says is: look out for debt, because you don't know what you're hanging over your head when things go wrong. We're in the middle of that weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u151	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u152	Normally, I would agree entirely with you, but in the euro area, we are linked to different laws. So we have to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u153	I agree with you, but at the same time we are in a company that urgently needs each other. So the question is, can you afford to let countries go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u154	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr President, I shall continue. The low interest rates are disrupting the housing market. That's a cause for concern, because a home is more than just a random economic asset. A home is a home, literally the most important place for a human. There's a shortage of houses. So this is a social problem that needs to be resolved as a matter of priority. In our view, scarcity is primarily caused by low interest rates, but also by high land prices, the nitrogen crisis and a notoriously viscous spatial policy. In the case of continued inflation, an interest rate increase could counteract a number of overheatings in the Dutch economy. The main consequence would be that the housing market would gradually be able to return to normal. In our view, it is mainly the low interest rate that causes the excessive rise in house prices and the frequent investment in homes. This calls for caution when taking measures in the area of taxation in relation to the housing market. The mortgage interest rate deduction is already limited, but the potentially restrictive effect on buying behaviour is offset by the low interest rate. As a result, people even opt out of tax deductions and borrow redemption-free, which means they have even more money available for the purchase of a house. Another point is the transfer of one's own home to box 3. This is contrary to a policy for decades in which the home was seen as a benchmark of security of living, and certainly a paid-back home. Our group does not seem to be sensible in putting this at risk and also in conjunction with the failure to index pensions or on a limited scale. May I have a response from the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. I have just argued that the government should use the burden policy pragmatically to compensate for increases in costs for citizens and businesses. This is certainly true in the context of climate policy. It is clear that this will lead to significant imbalances. Coal-fired power stations will gradually be closed down, so global demand for gas will increase. Prices of gas and electricity are linked. Renewable forms of energy are not yet able to meet demand, and so the price of energy will rise. Another example offers the sustainability of houses. This is going to cost the housing corporations a lot of money that can hardly be passed on in the rents. Here too, compensatory relief will be needed to avoid economic disruption. I'd like a reflection from the cabinet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u156	I should like to go back for half a minute to Mr Van Kesteren's comment on his own home. Do I understand from his words that he and my group are opposed to transferring their own home from box 1 to box 3, because their own home is not a freely available property, but to live in? We used to have, also to express this, the "inhabited value" of our own home, which was only 60% of the free value. That's an indication of the wisdom of the past. Do you agree with us that we should not go to box 3? What do you think of De Nederlandsche Bank's analysis of this? I found the gossip.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u157	I have already said that we do not think this is a good proposal, because it does not contribute to reducing the scarcity of the housing market. Therefore, I would not like to venture into a qualification of De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u158	Do you also agree with me that one of the reasons why we then apparently share this together is........................................................................................................ This would seriously affect the elderly, unlike De Nederlandsche Bank thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u159	That's true. The fundamental objections to this idea are precisely at the point you are referring to. Mr. Chairman. The burden policy will also have to change for business. The Dutch economy is still highly regarded, but will have to adapt at a considerable pace to maintain its position. It is clear that industry, transport and agriculture and horticulture will be transformed. Innovation is essential here. It's gonna cost a lot of money here, too. This can not only come from the government, but will also have to be paid by the companies. If separate charges are required, other taxes should be reduced or at least not increased. Mr. Chairman. In general terms, the CDA Group advocates a restoration of confidence between politics and business. This confidence has been waning in recent years. Also around Prinsjesdag the account of new policies has been deposited with the companies without apologizing. That can be done once, twice if necessary, but it cannot continue. A good location policy deserves renewed attention. May I ask, in this context of the cabinet, to reflect on Shell's announced departure? Society may demand a socially responsible approach from companies, but if there is, business must also be given the necessary space. That is essential for the future. Mr. Chairman. I talked about inflation and the effects of a possible increase in interest rates. That brings me to the pension issue. There have recently been agreements in the Lower House between a number of political groups on an indexing of pensions in the coming years. Although these agreements do not provide a solution for all pensions, my group regards them as an important step forward. The indexing or non-indexing linked to the calculation rate has been the subject of discussion for many years. The key issue is always: will index at the expense of the resources available to future generations, or can we trust that pension funds will continue to make sufficient returns? My group, I have also indicated this on previous occasions, tends to the latter. May I ask the Cabinet to respond to this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u160	It is good that Mr Van Kesteren raises this issue. It hits 10 million participants, young and old. Does he agree with my group that we should look at a solution for indexation by 2022 which will apply to all pensioners and all workers? After all, what was besmirched in the Lower House last week, announced by the cabinet for the next cabinet, namely that something is going to happen to an AMvB, is only true for one tenth of pensioners. Doesn't he agree with me that there should be an index for everyone? I'll give him two suggestions for that. The CDA can support the initiative proposal of the SP that is now in the Lower House. Then there will be indexing for everyone. The second variant is a bit technical. This is that instead of the policy coverage rate of 105 next year, the current coverage rate is already above 105 at the ABP. Then the ABP can also index. After all, that policy coverage rate was introduced at the time to avoid discounts, not to limit indexation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u161	Ideally, the proposal as you describe it would deserve support, namely to involve as many people as possible in the indexation process. Mentally, I'm on your side, too. Looking on the other hand at the political reality and at the debate between young and old that is always characteristic and central here, I think that what happened last week in the House of Representatives is at this moment the maximum possible, given the proportions. So I would not like to go into that, although I find it regrettable in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u162	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u163	I have another question for Mr Van Kesteren. Thank you for this clear answer. I think we're in agreement on the direction. But do you also acknowledge with me that, especially with a flying inflation rate of 4% next year, and certainly this year, so you might already be talking about 8% in two years, then an index of a few percent next year is certainly reasonable for all participants, for 7 million employees, but especially for 3 million pensioners? Of last week's proposal, only 300 000 pensioners get a little index, one in ten out of three million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u164	This is a repeat of what you just said, with all due respect. I'm close. But I also see that there are no more far-reaching solutions at this point in time in relation to the situation. That is also the border we are encountering, because we are not getting any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u165	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u166	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few comments on the labour market. Here too, scarcity prevails. The CDA Group wants to present the present and future Cabinet with a view to focusing on the integration of the million people or more who are not yet participating in the labour market. For too long this has been looked at and the relatively easy solution of labour migration has been chosen. From a social point of view, this system is approaching its limits or is already beyond them. There is a need for a major adjustment here. At the same time, with the phenomenon of labour shortages, Mr Van Ballekom has already said that working hours are low in the Netherlands. We drive with the hand brake on it. If more hours were made, it would look different with the scarcity. The adjustments I was talking about should be motivated by the fight against inequality. Too much inequality is wrong and disrupts society. We see this inequality in the labour market and, to a certain extent, in the housing market. This cabinet cannot do much anymore, but a new cabinet should take sensible measures here on the basis of the idea of solidarity. As far as we are concerned, more permanent work, more affordable rental and purchase homes and as many indexed pensions as possible are the cornerstones of a future social policy. Ultimately, it is about achieving fair outcomes of the financial and economic process. An economic system is not an end in itself. It is not the degree of growth that determines social and economic sustainability. Mr. Chairman. So much for my group's input. We look forward to the exchange of views with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u167	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u168	The comments made by Mr Van Kesteren on inequality also appeal to us very much. My question is about an earlier passage in what he just said, that you can expect companies to be socially responsible; I think he said it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u170	Does this also include the fact that we can expect companies to contribute to the financing of the public business, so simply by paying taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u171	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u172	Would it perhaps be a consequence, if we wanted an economy that would put that type of company in the spotlight, let me just say that perhaps we should stop pursuing a government policy to bring companies to us or to keep them here by actually chasing tax competition with exemptions abroad, think of a dividend tax or otherwise? Shouldn't we actually establish with each other: we are coming in a new era; with that old project of the Netherlands as a country of residence with as little taxes as possible at the expense of other countries, perhaps we should stop once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u173	I think you're right about that. For years I have been working to strengthen the locational climate in the Netherlands. I always will. From the race to do so along the tax route, we have learned that there are also limits that you should no longer cross at some point. That is a lesson that we have learned, and I believe that this has already been used to an important extent by the cabinet, by this Secretary of State and also by his predecessor. Mr. Vendrik, I think we're going to be faced with some new questions. We have mentioned this earlier about the debt problem, about how to deal with the interrelationships in Europe. The climate issue raises special questions and the location climate will also be affected. This can also be extended to the discussion on what role Schiphol should play in a business climate. We can also set up a tree on that, but I think that all these things need to be rethought because conditions force that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u174	Thank you, then, given the time we are going to the next speaker. That is Mr Crone on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u175	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me make a personal remark. It's an exciting day for me, because my daughter's a week late and the midwife's already been called. So, of course, I hope it doesn't happen for the second term. But that is also why we are standing here, because we are in a society in which we govern for the long future and not for the short future. I would like to appeal to the cabinet, but it also appeals to me very much to what Mr Van Kesteren said. We are faced with a great deal of inequality in society, and many of that inequality has grown in recent years through policies. We can therefore reduce them again by making policy better. The second, the long term, is, of course, to bring about green economic growth, the great transition. There are many possibilities for this too. In terms of economic growth, the cabinet has made some good choices in the corona policy. We have now reached the higher economic level that was this morning's news from the Central Statistical Office than before corona. But we are now in danger of becoming another low-investment, low-interest country, which is going to make cuts again. Now, please, let us lead in the Netherlands, but also in Europe, together with the new German red-green coalition, red-green-liberal coalition, if you would like to put an end to our position between the dreary countries and even as its leader. Mr. Chairman. There is a great deal of capital, particularly in the Netherlands. A large current account surplus. This means that we are definitely in a national investment deficit. That's just economics; I'll come back to that later. There's just an investment deficit. Fortunately, however, the cabinet caught up with me on the left, because on 10 March last year we had a discussion with the minister, including on pensions. That was March 10th, and you know what happened on March 11th. I said at the time: Minister, shouldn't we be pulling out 10 billion to catch the first blow of corona? I thought, "Should I yell "10 billion"? Then you get to hear "PvdA pottering, 10 billion," but I thought: it's only 1% of national income. The government debt was close to 50%. Then I got an answer from the Minister of Finance. He said, "Mr. Crone, we're not going to radicalize right now." I asked you again, in second term. Then he said, "We're not gonna do any macho behavior, are we?" I checked last night, because I thought it was a nice anecdote. But at least he caught up with me on the left. 10 billion? 90 billion! By the way, I am very pleased with that, because if we had not done so, then the public debt would have gone towards 60% of GDP at that time, and we would have been below 60% and thus below the EMU standard. The EMU average has now risen to 102%. So I ask the Minister: well done, but why the stress over the debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u176	I remember this very well. I also remember that we had a committee meeting in the Finance Committee with the Minister, where we both said: take drastic action immediately and do not hold hands on the cut. We have seen that this also works, because that brings us back, at least for the time being, to the level before the crisis. Of course, the Rutte II cabinet should have done the same, with the PvdA in it. We wouldn't have had such a long crisis back then. Anyway, that's wisdom after all. I fully agree with Mr Crone that this was a very good intervention at the time, which the country did a great deal of good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u177	If the question is whether we agree, then we agree on this point. Fortunately, the banking crisis has been learned. The banking crisis has taught us that, in a crisis, you need to come up with savings rather than a bazooka, but with a targeted investment project. That is why I have just said in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Ballekom: please do not do that again. Everywhere in Europe the lesson has been learned that you should not react with increases and cuts. This would have led to a lower growth path, just like after the banking crisis. That is why I now have a question for the Minister of Finance; perhaps Mr Vijlbrief would like to say something about it, because he also often comes to Europe. The Netherlands has been the champion of current account surpluses for many years now. It's now down to 8%. That's still hugely high. But the draftsman has already said that we are going back to a 10% current account surplus. With that, we are champions of current account surplus together with Germany. I asked the Council of State for this. It says in its opinion on the Millions Note: the surplus is classified as macroeconomic imbalance. The Council of State states that the large surplus of the Netherlands means, in particular, too much savings and a shortage of investment. That's just economics, but I'd like to say it again. I would like this Minister to follow not only the modern economy but also the imperial role. The imperial role. Because I have a parable. The emperor of Japan saw that many people were getting old and that many people were going to save for their old age. That's fine, he'll tell them. "Good thing you're saving for old age. Soon you will all have a bag of gold coins or a foreign bond." That's what the Emperor told his subjects. "But those bags of coins don't help you when you're old and the economy is shrinking. The bakers then close their shops, the care homes shrink and there is no nurse at your bed." So the Emperor said what he was going to do. He said: "I'm going to invest in public services as a government, but also in private facilities such as bakers. The money doesn't end up dead in a savings account. I'll give you interest on the bond you buy." Mr. Chairman. This is just a basic economy, but it is a good example, because everyone thinks that the greenhouse should be closed. Yes, the greenhouse must close as a country and have no surplus. The government's cashier must take over the business deficit. That's very important. The citizens of Japan applauded the emperor for more domestic amenities, bread on the shelf and private and public investment. Mr. Chairman. I like to give the minister the role of emperor, because the prime minister is no longer in it, I have read. So take that part and then be that wise emperor. Let us not go back to cutting back the current account surplus abroad and further shrinking our economy. Of course, there is also an important international side to this. That was also discussed by others. OECD, IMF and the European Union all say that to us. A current account surplus is an imbalance vis-à-vis other countries. Other countries, especially the southern Member States, are at a disadvantage. Because of our under-spending, they buy less from us and therefore have less economic growth, fewer jobs and more debt. After all, we have a claim against them again. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister for a response to this. Is this not the arrogance of the wealthy retiree who blames the other for not investing enough and saving too little, when we have made it impossible for him to do so? That is where our tax shortcuts come in, about which an interesting debate has just been held between Mr Van Kesteren and Mr Vendrik. Because of these tax shortcuts, for example, the multinationals Fiat and Gucci from Italy do not pay taxes, because money flows from their headquarters run through the Netherlands. The bizarre thing is that it does not give us any tax advantage, nor for them, just for the multinationals. So we get no tax revenue, not the Italians, but only the multinationals that pay less. I'd like to ask for a response to that. I heard the Minister at the G20 in Italy, in Rome, say that he has a very good relationship with his Italian colleagues. Has he also promised to reduce the savings surplus and to tackle tax shortcuts? I understand the diplomatic kindness, but I suppose this is a theme after all. Mr. Chairman. So here we have a macroeconomic need to have a deficit in our budget. Many, including Teulings, to whom I also borrowed the parable, and professors such as Jacobs, De Kam and Bolhuis show that we must have a borrowing deficit of 1.5% to 1.8% with low interest rates and low economic growth. It must therefore be a deficit, otherwise the public debt will continue to fall. I also read in the report that the Central Planning Office says that public debt is going to fall to 27%. What do you mean, 60%? Let alone 100%, what Europe has. So we are no longer the innovative, investing society, but the interest-rate agencies that invest money abroad. Then we'll make ourselves short. In order to reduce the funding gap to 60% alone, we now need to invest 40 billion one-time. I therefore agree with Mr Van Kesteren that new ways are needed to look at this in Europe and in the European context. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Of course, there is a limit to the expansionary fiscal policy. You can no longer support 60% and 3% of the time of high interest rates, but we must of course be careful when interest rates go up. But nobody expects that, certainly not for the time being, because the world is ageing and there is far too much saving. Companies even save so much that they spoil their shareholders with buying shares instead of investing. The interest charges will therefore remain low for a long time. Refinancing of bonds is not a problem either, as pension funds and private capital would like to refinance again. So let's make sure they do it here and don't have to go abroad. Does the Minister share this view of interest rates, namely that they are not yet a problem, that they will not replace other expenditure and that they can therefore be an instrument to increase the investment deficit in the Netherlands? Moreover, in his Witteveen lecture, DNB President Knot also pointed out the need for a higher level of collective spending and adjustment of the budgetary rules. But of course the money has to be well spent. Of course, there must be investment programmes that will help us. I just said in an interruption that the cabinet has no vision, but jars. Everything goes into jars. I've already counted it up to over 60 billion, outside of corona, for Christ's sake. For education, there is 8 billion, for the Wopke-Wiebes Fund 20 billion, for the climate 7 billion. And then there's money for nitrogen, nature and housing. All in all, it adds up. Unfortunately, sometimes it is also about money to compensate for the premium affair. We're making a lot of money available, 60 billion. But it's left to experts. I sometimes get calls from the business community about officials calling and saying they have pots, but they don't know how to spend them. Those companies say: then we must present projects. So I very much agree with Mr Van Ballekom. The policy must be: set standards for nitrogen and climate. Get standards and rules. Make sure there are fair prices and that the CO price is reflected in the market price. Then you can get entrepreneurs out of the game. But if the one thing doesn't happen, the steering becomes what the minister does with loose hands. It is precisely the Minister of Finance who must ensure that all these jars are spent in an orderly manner. In the area of budgetary governance, I agree with Mr Van Ballekom. But I also wonder whether this is too much with loose hands. 'Cause then we're gonna make it a game with the game policy. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we see the division very much in society. That is the inequality Mr van Kesteren also mentioned. Salaries and working conditions in education and care are only left behind. If they are already raised, it comes under heavy pressure, mostly from the opposition. That is a pity, because people expect that there is now, especially after 1.5 years of corona, a vision of the government's policy on care. Education gets 8 billion. The director of the CPB wrote: shouldn't that have been structural? It now leads to a further division. Mr. Chairman. I would prefer to use some of the surpluses to reduce taxes. Sure, I want to lower taxes, Mr. Van Ballekom. It is not just a question of spending, because the surcharges and marginal rates can be better dealt with with with relief, so that police officers, boas and people in care and education like to work some extra hours and thereby strengthen the supply of labour rather than just thinking: I am not left with an extra euro and because of that supplementing affair I am afraid to do anything, because I do not know what kind of charge I will get about it afterwards. In climate policy, we also see this division very sharply. Businesses are often helped, with allowances that they get for free. But, of course, they should have a much sharper policy, saying afterwards: we support you with innovation, especially the frontrunners in climate policy innovation. On this point, too, I would like to ask the cabinet: why do we first give the money without conditions? The same thing happened at KLM. I hadn't even put them in the billion-dollar jar yet. Can the Minister comment on why there are still large deficits at KLM, while Lufthansa has already repaid everything? Mr. Chairman. The division is, of course, very manifest in the housing market. I would like to come back to that, because we have, of course, had policies there too: interest relief, jubelton, loan stretches, redemption-free loans, so that people with richer parents or a previous home in their possession get to work and people without them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u178	I would like to ask Mr Crone a question about generic aid and specific aid. I have just heard him say, and I very much agree, 'you have to regulate business and you have to look forward to it, so that it is a predictable pattern'. Mr Van Kesteren also spoke about this. Isn't that hard to reconcile with the idea that in a crisis, a generic crisis for everyone, you would make support specific to enforce policies? Because that affects companies at different times. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u179	No, I think the PvdA has rightly supported the generic measures of corona, the 90 billion. You don't have to cut that with scissors and if you are going to, then you have implementation problems to deal with. We have said: look at the KLM support package, and I have asked the Minister once again, in all the debates, and take a look at what the future is for such a company if you want a fair price, so no VAT exemption, a higher CO price and you name it for aviation. I read now that Lufthansa has sold the dirtiest planes to KLM. So it seems that there has been a combination of both clean-up and state aid, as well as cleaner policies. I also ask the Minister how KLM is doing now, because we can't hear anything anymore, and then you won't solve it. Sometimes that combination can work, if only to show in a scenario what would have happened if we had the environmental standards that D66 wants. Even so, you can give against the trend in money, for example for employment reasons. But now we're doing it a little loose-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u180	I understand the thought. Since a large part of the discussion on KLM support is taking place in confidential discussions, I do not have the idea that you have it. But on my first point, I am reassured, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u181	Please continue your argument, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u182	Mr. Chairman. In the housing market in particular, last year we had a very successful incentive of 450 million to support additional municipalities, including developers and, of course, citizens, so that they can be built more quickly. So I would like to say, like Koerhuis, that we are pushing construction. But why not go back to 450 million? Last year that game is very overdrawn and now we are just sticking plasters and don't hurry it up. Mr Vendrik has already announced: I have prepared a motion to help the Minister that there will be another 450 million for re-municipal support. The projects of Utrecht and The Hague, for example, fell out last year. They're ready now. Exactly where it is needed, but also in the shrinking areas extra space is needed. I would also like to say with Mr Van der Linden: seduce pension funds to invest in Dutch housing as well. I think they're happy when they're going to, let's just say, it's metaphorical of Emperor Hoekstra to invest the bonds in the Netherlands and get a percent interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u183	I find it admirable that Mr Crone intends to support the Minister in accelerating the housing programme. He also mentions the landlord's tax. In 2013, I believe that the landlord levy was created by a cabinet in which the Labour Party was present. This is one of the main reasons why the funding programme is lagging behind. I also refer directly to GroenLinks, with whom he intends to table this motion. How's that short? As of 2010, 120,000, 122,000 status holders were placed as a priority in social housing. My question is whether Mr Crone does not think it is very hypocritical of him to come up with a solution to the problem he himself has caused.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u184	Mr. Crone, please give me a concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u185	My brief answer may be: this landlord levy has been introduced as a crisis measure and the Labour Party in the Lower House has been saying for five years in counter-budgets that it should be abolished. So you can repeat all the mistakes, from the biggest to the smallest. You may decide for yourself what is wrong or not, but this has not been a theme for five years. It is also covered in the electoral programmes to abolish that levy altogether. But I welcome every step we can take, with your support. So I hope you mean to help us get a majority if we do, and you agree. It is an important point, moreover, because, as far as we are concerned, a budget is not as easy to get through this Chamber as we are now reducing the build momentum. Last year it was 450 million, one-time money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u186	That was half my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u187	Sorry, the other half of the question. Yeah, I got it. You cannot blame people for wanting to build houses, which is not sufficiently done. Then you cannot blame us for the fact that there is now a shortage of housing. All these years, we've been asking this cabinet to build, build, build. Let us work together to find our solution and now with that money, the uneconomic summit, help the municipalities to properly integrate the infrastructure, because that accelerates construction. The plans are ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u188	Finally, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u189	Mr. Chairman. For this year, the CBS predicts an increase in the population of more than 100,000, due to the arrival of what we call "happiness seekers." There's no way to build on that. If you don't want to tackle that problem, we can never build on it. That does not alter the fact that those native Dutch must be helped by a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u190	Thank you. Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u191	The housing shortage is much greater than you think, because there are also a lot of migrant workers, all of whom are also tucked away in bad housing places, where you and I wouldn't want to live. We need to get a lot of people into a place. That is why we need to build together and provide good facilities. There are also many companies in your constituency that are likely to employ migrant workers, but not helping a home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u192	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u193	But we agree on the problem: more housing needs to be built. Mr. Chairman. On the subject of division, I would like to add my voice to the questions that have just been asked about the division of labour and capital income. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked questions about this. Here too, Mr Van Kesteren rightly said yes, I come from a CDA nest that entrepreneurs have to pay their fair share. My question in this debate, including to Mr Filipino, remains as follows. That 15% uniform Vpb is fine with me, but isn't it going to give a new boost to the race to the bottom? He has often said in the media that it is not, but here reality is often harder than the word. We have indeed reduced the Vpb in recent years. On top of that, companies know, of course, that they have all these services paid differently by citizens and especially by SMEs. Of course, I will come back to that in the Charge Plan, but I would like to hear his views on this point. Also on the surcharges we come back in more detail in the next discussion about the Tax Plan. Mr. Chairman. I'm very curious. Let the cabinet, Minister Hoekstra, in whatever role, have learned the lesson from the corona and banking crisis that we are not now increasing the current account surplus again, but are making investments in the Netherlands, whether or not with the help of pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u194	Thank you, Mr Crone. Mr Schalk has the floor for an interruption. There's been some kind of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u195	I would like to put a question to Mr Crone. It has to do with the personal fact that he made and the political comment that followed. The personal fact, of course, was that his daughter was expecting a baby. Well, my daughter a little later, somewhere in December, alive and well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u196	During the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u197	Anyway, just like grandpas to each other: I have a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u198	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u199	The subject I would like to link to it is the word 'inequality' that Mr Crone has mentioned. Young families I am curious to see what the Labour Party's group thinks about this. It is often very difficult, at this very moment. They can barely buy a house anymore. We have often exchanged views on the single-earner families, where mother or father decides to take care of the child, so that the other has to earn everything and sometimes pay up to seven times as much tax. Does the Labour Party now agree with my group that we should actually do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u200	In general, I have always embraced this in the past in the Lower House itself. Families in which there is poverty are often families with young children, and you do not want children to grow up in poverty. That has nothing to do with my grandchildren, by the way. I thought that was a lot longer. I also asked the question yesterday to Finance, in the briefing on the Tax Plan. Maybe now I can get a response from the Secretary of State. The marginal rates are high for sole earners, I saw again yesterday. That is not so much because of the tax rates, but because of the combination with all the surcharges. You'll end up in a dive. But it also applies to the one and a half earners, which has gradually become the norm in our country. The one-and-a-half earners aren't going to work that easy for a few hours extra. I also had it in Leeuwarden with the police officers, the boas and the people in the care. They said, "I want to work another night, but it doesn't get me much. That would help the labour supply. Often it is the young families with children that we need so badly in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u201	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u202	Thank you, Mr Crone, for immediately passing on the question to the cabinet. So we'll come back to that later in the day. We will inevitably also come back to the treatment of the Tax Plan. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u203	I noticed that Mr Crone did not speak on behalf of the Labour Party about the indexation of pensions. That is all the more striking, because last week there was a big racket in the Lower House with the Van Dijk motion, which called on the cabinet to index next year, threatening to remove the signature from the pension agreement. I note that the Labour Party maintains that signature. The cabinet said if you just keep that signature, so don't blackmail us, you'll get the indexing gift. But in our view this indexing is a pacifier, because only 300 000 pensioners get that indexing. The pensioners at the large funds ABP, Care and Welfare and Metal and Technics do not get her. So the policemen, the teachers...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u204	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u205	Can I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u206	I'd love to. For a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u207	Let me explain what my question is about? That is what I am saying: does Mr Crone recognise that the political racket across the street has given birth to a dead sparrow, because next year hardly anyone will be indexed for, and is it not much more appropriate to really take away the signature of the pension agreement and demand that everyone be indexed next year or, for example, support the 2% interest rate SP initiative? Is it not more appropriate for what the Labour Party carried out to the outside world to be indexed? What was the reason why she signed the pension agreement with the FNV at the time, to complete it completely and not to create expectations for many people who only lead to great disappointments? What's your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u208	Thank you. Mr Crone, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u209	I would like to give two succinct answers. This was precisely the debate we had with the Minister of Finance and Mr Koolmees on 10 March last year. I happen to have heard something with you about the interest rate once before. I also said at the time: in the old system, which we are still in now, it does not fit that you simply increase the interest rate, because you have to give a nominal guarantee. In the new world it fits, because then you say: you get the indexing earlier, but if it doesn't work out, we're going to cut you short. Now we're right between the old and the new world. So I think it is very acceptable that the PvdA Group has asked: can we go to the new world next year? I assume that includes that the nominal guarantee will be less. The cabinet then says: then we must have the new system first. That's not blackmail, that's looking for the middle road. The laws on the new system still have to come to us and they even have to go to the House of Representatives. Then the new package can make it clear that it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u210	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u211	My point is that the Labour Party's commitment was very high and that the result is very low. Mr Crone must be disappointed. You say with the FNV to the cabinet: we need to index next year. If the end result of that political game of over-and-over blackmailing each other a little bit "if you don't index, we withdraw the signature," the cabinet says: if you want to have that indexation, you must continue to support the pension agreement. Do you agree with me that it is unfair for 300 000 pensioners to be indexed, but not 2.7 million pensioners? That's not what the Labour Party and the FNV had in mind in that big noise last week, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u212	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u213	I was just saying that I am glad that there is an opening, that we are bringing forward the new system and that there is a possibility of indexing earlier. We will see what they decide in the House of Representatives. But there's an opening that you could also embrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u214	Thank you. Mr Backer has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year I talked about the four-yearly deeds of a budget cycle in a cabinet period, but now one-fifth has been added: the national budget 2022; probably the last of this minister. I would like to congratulate him on his marriage, for I could not have done so; herewith. Luckily, it went without much commotion. It's been different with colleagues of his. Mr. Chairman. How much and how far-reaching can a outgoing cabinet ultimately govern and make political choices? That is ultimately a political interpretation of a constitutional issue, but I think we agree that as a formation lasts longer, more strategic decisions need to be taken, and this is the longest formation ever. You can also read that in the Millions note under the title Resilience and build further. For the D66 group, it is clear that in this role a outgoing cabinet should focus primarily on what I call "no regrets' choices, no regret choices that are strategically wise in any future scenario. Politically, of course, there is always a difference of opinion and sometimes there are catch-up choices, as Mr Vendrik mentioned. Anyway, they're choices that I think we'll be happy about in the long run. Are there any works of imagination in a missionary cabinet? In the end, that is either a missionary or not, what the citizen needs. Do we see some of these as results of policy or as intended policies in this rich budget? Oh, yes, I do. The departments of finance and social affairs in recent years, with all the criticism they may have, have also been given a bit of trouble to combat the corona crisis. I agree with Mr Van Kesteren on this point. Mr Crone and Mr Otten took some copyright for that intervention. It's all theirs. Because of this minister, his Secretary of State and Minister Koolmees, there is a safety net knotted in the corona crisis that we have not known before after the Second World War, not even in the financial crisis in 2009. As many as EUR 71.7 billion has been provided in income and business support and EUR 50 billion in guarantees. Those are huge amounts of money. My group would like to highlight the fact that the rulers, to put it modernly, have been on the table 24/7, not only on the public health side, but also on the economic side, in order to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on citizens and businesses. And yet the public debt has not been disproportionate. Apparently, that's lucky you're forcing, because the low interest rate helped us. The budget has no borders, but there are a few things to say about it. I wanted to start by expressing my appreciation. The other side of the story is that outside the normal budgetary framework a sort of occasional "department COVID-19" has arisen, to name it. The praise for the intervention is accompanied by questions. Expenditure has also been estimated for 2022; it was mentioned earlier today. Unfortunately, these expenses will go through, because the pandemic has not disappeared. We know two months after Princess Day that next year, perhaps around this time, we will have measures that also have economic impact. Have the expenditure, my question to the Minister of Finance, not been over-optimized? How much of this "COVID-19 department" will eventually become structural? On existing structural expenditure, the Millions note contains the necessary words, particularly in the care sector. You can see in Figure 2.3.2 that there is a significant growth over GDP growth. Care is receiving attention, as was just shown in the debate. But what does not receive attention is the lagging structural growth, for example the departmental budget of Education. Infrastructure and Defence were mentioned, but for me the departmental budget of Education is more important. That budget is structurally lagging behind. There is now extra money for education in the corona interventions, but that is occasional money. Anyone who has something to do with education knows that you cannot offer teachers a permanent contract with incidental funding in schools. In short, here the old adage of my former colleague Rinnooy Kan used to say: anyone who thinks education is too expensive does not know what stupidity costs. Mr. Chairman. I come to the estimates of 1.3 billion for the corona crisis. I've been talking about that for a while. Possibly too late. The NOW still accounts for 3.4 billion in revenue and 1.1 billion in revenue for the Tozo. How hard are those estimates? Tax deferred until the end of October of next year. Many of these refunds are difficult for some entrepreneurs and are also very complicated. So what does this ultimately mean for the balance if it turns out that much more is irrecoverable? Can the Minister who estimated a deficit of 2.4% of GDP update this now? Are we still so convinced that that's about the prognosis? The CPB estimated the shelf life deficit at -1.5. Is the appreciation of the cabinet that this is still a correct number, with all the assumptions, because it is an estimate? Mr. Chairman. The covid pandemic has highlighted sectors with a fragile business model very prominently. Of course, the cultural sector is one of them. Mr Vendrik mentioned them, too. The suffering is far from over there. The D66 Group regrets the fact that some have even fallen completely. We hope that this will be taken into account in the new round of measures, and it seems that it will be taken into account, because that is what I just took the word 'imagination' in the mouth also of interest to society. Mr. Chairman. It goes very slowly with the transition to broad prosperity in the framework of the rich budget, because in that the Millions note is still very thin. Can the Minister show what building blocks he leaves for his successor to take the necessary next step? It is becoming increasingly important for the cabinet review framework. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make suggestions from the Council of State for a number of improvements to that review framework, but I see Mr Vendrik standing at the microphone threateningly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u216	It's kind of nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u217	Mr Backer and I share the great concern about the blow that Corona has given to the cultural and creative sector. Shouldn't we be working on that today? That more needs to be done there, I actually hear with some imagination in Mr Backer's words. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u218	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u219	Shall we make a plan for that together today with a clear mandate to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u220	I would certainly like to join Mr Vendrik. We always have to see if we come to the same thing, of course, but I like to think about it, to the extent that this Chamber is steering policy. I am certainly prepared to think along, because it has obviously been evident in the support measures that there are sectors that are on the front radar of the cabinet. Of course, factories with production lines, crops; all kinds of sectors, but not culture. Culture has an extremely vulnerable business model, as far as you can call it a business model, but in any case a earning model and this sector is very important for society. In the end, it's gotten started, but it's slow. So it could be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u221	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u222	I hope I have been able to give you the hope or imagination that we can do something about that. I think we'll talk. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State had devoted a detailed passage to the Court's budget law. I haven't heard that this morning. The Council is actually saying three things: research how Parliament can gain more control over social security and care financed by contributions, modernise the budgetary legislative system by incorporating the non-financial ESG and broad prosperity, and we have just talked about this. I'll leave the first advice to rest, but the other two have to do with each other. As early as 2013, the Council of State, at the request of this Chamber, provided information on the issue of democratic legitimacy of European decision-making. Even then, the Council considered whether it was not wise to join the European Semester in the budgetary cycle. I refer to the 2012 Chamber of Representatives. The Court of Auditors' complaint is that too little is actually being done in the spring, and I think that Mr Vendrik recognizes this with the evaluation of the current account. Making policy is, of course, always much more attractive than looking back on policies. But what the Council of State is advocating here is that, in the spring, the coherence between past expenditure development and future plans, combined with other information from, for example, the CPB and the Planning Office for the Environment, should be made jointly in a decision. Then the cabinet submits the stability and reform programme to the European Commission. Let me quote the Council of State: 'This is how this process works for the European budgetary master'. That's how the Rooms get to the ball in a more timely manner. It also offers an opportunity to better assess broad prosperity. Then in the autumn, as we are doing now, we can carry out the formal review of the expenditure package. Mr President, then Prinsjesdag can just stay in place, because I can see you frowning over my left shoulder. It is simply a cycle in which the discussion takes place in the spring, including the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews. Then comes the old-fashioned cycle. That is future music, but I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks of this thought. Then I come to the European Recovery Fund. There is 5.96 billion on the shelf from the European Recovery Fund. In his letter of 1 November to the Chamber, the Minister notes that there is no direct need for more investment. The Dutch economy recovers unexpectedly quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u223	I understood from the debate in the Lower House that the Minister of Finance is still coming up with an extensive reflection on that recommendation to bring the Millions note to spring. I personally see many advantages in that. My question is about broad prosperity. I didn't say for nothing that the study group's report says: you actually have to take care of it in the formation. My question to Mr Backer is: is that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u224	An important pillar that could have ensured a firm anchoring of the coalition agreement, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has unfortunately escaped us from these discussions. We will have to do so alone. I have every confidence that that will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u225	Is that an answer to your question? That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u226	Mr. Chairman. I'm with the European Recovery Fund. The Minister says: but things are going very well; the economy is recovering. Then, of course, the question is how prudent that is. If you look at the uncertain developments in the world market, inflation, labour market shortages, energy prices, the bitcoin bubble and the negative effects of Brexit, there is only one thing that is certain, namely that it is highly uncertain, except for Mr Van der Linden, because he knows that interest rates remain high, but that is his interpretation. Excuse me, I hear Mr van der Linden saying that inflation is high and not interest rates. Yeah, he knows more than I do, but I think it can be said across the board that it's uncertain. Then I would say: let the reform fund be implemented on the formation table as quickly as possible and make sure that there are plans for the cabinet to be able to do its bit. Mr Vendrik said it was rather special that it has not yet arrived. Well, I find it exceptional that we, as the Netherlands, have not submitted a plan. That's really not regret or no-regret. The Recovery Fund has a history. I know. The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, with Mr Van Ballekom in the back seat, have always reacted somewhat reluctantly to this whole fund and seen it as a kind of cuckoo egg in European developments. But the fund is here. Use it. I'd say look ahead. I do have a question, because from the documents I understand that there is not a starting period but a final deadline. Investment must have been made before 2026. What does that mean? Can the Minister inform us of the significance of that term? Mr. Chairman. There has been some fuss about a letter from the Minister about Brussels' demands, but I think that is a real shame. We should not lay down the issues of reform in Brussels; we should take our own decisions on this. Mr. Chairman. A number of additional investments are still needed and we all know where: in the decisions after Glasgow, in the attractiveness to become a teacher, in the staff shortages, in the housing and housing sectors, it is already mentioned in the nitrogen issue. Here, the cabinet has not taken sufficient action to use this minister's terminology, and is failing the Millions note to make a number of choices. However, we hope that this can be changed as soon as possible in a new government agreement and in a missionary cabinet. Luckily, money is reserved. Budgetary provision is made for a solution to the surcharge affair. I see the Secretary of State here and I ask her if we can come up with what she thinks is necessary. Mr. Chairman. I saw that there was an increase in expenditure on social lawyers in the budget, but I am concerned about the years after, because they are falling again. When we talk about surcharges, there is also a link between these two issues: cuts in social law and the consequences of supplements. I would like to put one final question to the Secretary of State who is also responsible for customs and to clarify the questions raised by the European Court of Auditors on the recovery and reduction that our country receives as a collector of funds under the rules of the MFF. What's going on here? Could she explain that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the D66 Group is, of course, looking forward to the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u227	I've listened to your contribution with great pleasure, as always. You made a point at the beginning, and you just came back to it, about investing more in education. Of course, that's part of your party as well. You also mentioned the amount of 8 billion incidentals that is not nothing that is being invested in education. But it seems that you are primarily concerned with structural investment. What am I supposed to think about? "Investing in education" sounds very nice, but it is, of course, about where then in education. Is that primary education, secondary education, higher education? What exactly does your party's thoughts go for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u228	I appreciate the questions and also the compliments, but I do not think it is entirely on my way to identify where it should go for the Department of Education. I'm involved in secondary education myself, so I would tend to send it there, but that's not my idea. I think a few discussions across the board will never be resolved. Each research shows, for example, that salary development in education, both p.o. As a result of this, it is essential to improve the situation, and also to combat disadvantages in primary and secondary education, which can only be overcome with great difficulty and with additional measures. These 8 billion may occasionally do what they want, but in the end salary developments will prove to be incredibly important for restoring our quality of education and catching up. I think that will be an important part of the catching up investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u229	There has been a great deal of investment in education salaries in recent times. Let us not forget that. But I was actually wondering if you had any ideas about the content of the story. What is there to invest in in terms of content? If we just say that we need more money in education, then you and I can name ten more subjects, but of course we are talking about targeted investment. That has been a bit of a message from the whole debate, if I reconstruct it, so far. Can you add one or two more sentences to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u230	Finally, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u231	Now Mr Ester is making it a bit simple by saying that I am only advocating more money. That's not true. And it's not just about more money, but the opposite is true. There is a structural deficit in the financing of our education. Look at the state I was referring to. Then you see that only care and social affairs grow. That's the message I want to deliver. You have to reverse these structurally lagging investments. Now you ask me: in which sectors should this be done? Is that supposed to be in the MBO? Should it be in knowledge development? I don't think it's up to me to go into detail here. There are detailed plans across the street with my colleagues. They are also introduced into the cabinet formation. There are very detailed calculations, including in the D66 electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u233	But I honestly do not think it is my job today, despite the fact that I appreciate the question and understand why it is being asked, to go into detail here. I couldn't do that well enough, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u234	Mr. Ester, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u235	I understand that very well. But I suggest we leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u236	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Of course, you spoke on behalf of the Christian Union. Thank you, Mr. Backer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Strien, who will speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and their officials for answering the written questions in the preparation. Mr. Chairman. 48 years ago, I was studying physics at the time. I did an oral exam on solid physics. One of the first questions was what was the energy of a free electron in a semiconductor. My answer was a factor of ten wrong and I could pack right away. In case of an error of that order size, you had to go to college for another month. I was shocked because I was outside in just a few minutes, and it was also the first time I failed an exam. It worked out with my physics study. The professor was just right. It's always good to be able to estimate the size-order of a problem. I had to think of this incident repeatedly when studying the Millions Note 2022. This outgoing cabinet, as well as the previous Rutte Cabinets, is constantly unable to assess the order size of almost all major problems and thus the solutions. Let's start with the housing shortage, which has been on the agenda for years, but now it's really up-to-date. The PVV has been calling for a solution in this house for years. There are at least 330,000 housing shortages according to the State of the housing market of 2020 and this would have decreased in 2021. Well, tell that to a young Dutch family looking for a place to live. The fact is that this decrease is entirely within the not mentioned margin of uncertainty. The cabinet now pays 100 million a year to promote housing. However, an important part of the housing shortage is regulation. My group is wondering, and this is a question for the Minister, Mr Delors, how 100 million of the government's money, 1% of the housing deficit, is going to be used against the same government's regulations. If we then look at the landlord levy of 1.7 billion, money that could otherwise be used to build new homes, we see that some of it is now being returned, but most of the problem that the landlord levy is, remains. Mr President, I would also like to correct what I said later in an interruption to Mr Crone. There are no 122.000 status holders located in the relevant period, but 208.000 status holders in 122.000 homes. Mr. Chairman. If you look at this, you know that this missionary cabinet lacks any sense of the order size of the problem. The fact that De Nederlandsche Bank and the IMF are occupied by left-wing career makers is once again proven by their solution: the houses in box 3. It's like a tax increase would only bring you one extra house. Pensioners will, by the way, be amazed at this. First of all, they are not indexed for thirteen years and de facto they go down 20% to 30% in disposable income. Then, after years of labor, their house will be taxed again. The problem gets worse when you look at the migration crisis. The indigenous population of the Netherlands has been shrinking by a few thousand people a year for years, but due to the constant influx of fortune seekers we have been growing net by about 100,000 people per year for years. Every year this is a city like Delft or a city like Venlo, the second largest city in Limburg, in this country. You must really be blind looking if you think we can keep this up for a long time. But not a word of a solution to this in the Millions Note. Meanwhile, status holders block any access for native Dutch to the social rental market. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the climate. The longer we wait, the more expensive the solutions become, the policy measures state. Total bullshit, of course. Can the Minister indicate what this is based on? In any case, there goes another 6.8 billion in brackets: that is almost the price of a nuclear power plant literally and figuratively in the plunder. I'm going back to 2013. In a debate in June of that year, then Minister of Economic Affairs Kamp said that by 2020, 16% of total energy consumption should be renewable energy. At that time, I interrupted and said that this was completely unfeasible and was therefore nonsense. At that time, I calculated that for the next ten years only renewable electricity could reasonably be generated and that you would then reach a maximum of 10% to 11%, i.e. the total share of electricity in energy consumption. The share is now slightly higher. We would have come to that if we had then decided to build two nuclear power stations. But you weren't even allowed to say the word "nuclear power plant." I assumed wind and solar energy. These two forms now, while all the Netherlands and the North Sea are already full of windmills and fertile agricultural land everywhere has been sacrificed to solar fields, sedge and write 4% of total energy production. Mr. Chairman. At that time I could not know that we would be greatly fooled by the trick to count the large-scale logging of forests in North America and the Baltic States by definition as renewable energy. With this deception one comes to a production of 10% renewable energy. It is all too clear that this outgoing cabinet and the previous Rutte Cabinets do not know the order of magnitude of what they are doing. Meanwhile, energy prices are falling apart. We need more energy than we thought. But let us not forget the unprecedented gas and electricity taxes needed to subsidise uneconomic windmills and biomass, which have now been temporarily reduced. All this leads to energy poverty for 550,000 families. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I would like to say a few words about the climate judgment against Shell. First of all, it's an incomprehensible stupid verdict when you say you're worried about CO. It means that Western societies have to limit their production. You can tell by the gas prices where that leads. That is what happens with oil. This is in favour of the producing countries which, with a lot less scruples and a lot more pollution, are thinking of releasing methane, will increase their production, conversion and distribution. It is also incomprehensible to me that I am thinking of the Urgendavonnis..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The fact that Shell is moving its head office to London is not surprising, but it is not surprising outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u238	I object that the PVV colleague uses these words about the Dutch judiciary. He can find anything. He may disagree with statements and such, but it is inappropriate for you in this house, as a member of the legislative assembly, to moderate your judgment on judges, and therefore to qualify them as if they were parties, or left or right. It doesn't matter. There's a verdict. As a legislative assembly, we have to deal with this and the government has to deal with it. It's true. I would be very sorry if our colleague were to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u239	Perhaps you could refrain from doing so, Mr. Van Strien, in the course of your speech. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u240	My problem is that judges sat down in the government chair. Judges have begun to transcend the separation of powers. I think it is perfectly right to make a comment on this from the executive or legislative powers when the others are the first to cross the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u241	We have an annual debate on the rule of law on this subject. That discussion is also taking place. I am concerned now that it seems to me unwise to disqualify judges in the state budget. That's inappropriate and in no one's interest. I call Mr Van Strien to that. I hope he doesn't want that to happen any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u242	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u243	I don't hear a question in there, so I'm moving on. One final point concerns our electricity grid. That was always a perfect net, suitable for the way we produced and used electricity. With all the decentralised generation of electricity by windmills and the ongoing electrification of society by climate madness, we are placed for billions of investments in the grid. No one talks about that, but the already desperate Henk and Ingrid will be even more expensive in the coming years. I'd like to hear from the Minister who's going to pay for it. Mr. Chairman. This summer I was on camping holiday in France and I experienced three campsites that around eight o'clock in the evening the power went out. Then all the other campers decided to make coffee at the same time after dinner. Such a coffee maker is about 800 to 1,000 watts and thus attracts about 4 amperes. And that didn't work out for the local net. You can imagine what would happen if after 2030 all the Dutch put their electric car on the infusion. It pulls around 50 to 150 amperes while loading. Every sane person understands that there in France in 2030 you really can't charge your car together. Why don't you take a look at the spaghetti of power wires in those cities? Then de facto the borders are closed, not for lucky seekers who want to enter the Netherlands, but for Dutch people who want to go on holiday abroad. They simply don't get any further than a few hundred kilometers across the border. Mr. Chairman. We're moving on to the next crisis, the supplemental affair. Everyone has called for a while and the entire cabinet has resigned, but the affair has been going on since 2017 and the vast majority of the victims still have no idea of a solution. It is now even apparent that more than 1,100 children of the disabled have been evicted by the child care allowance affair. And still people have to sue to avoid being evicted from their homes because of the debts caused by the Tax Administration. Everything really gets bogged down in bureaucracy. The same thing happens with the earthquake damage in Groningen. If a generous compensation scheme were to be set up there, that would be nothing, nothing at all, compared to the amount of money that the Netherlands has taken out of the ground there. But here again, in both situations, the Rutte Cabinets are apparently unable to see the order size of the problem. It makes the worst fear for the overpaid corona aid, because there too a second supplement affair could arise. A further point in the policy measures concerns investment in safety. It's actually relatively new that a cabinet says it's really gonna do something about it. Whether it's actually gonna happen, we still need to see. For years, the increase in crime has been neglected or downplayed and defence cuts are being made. Once again, the cabinet is beating itself up by noticing in the Millions' Note that we would have a well-functioning rule of law internationally. Meanwhile, however, a lawyer and a journalist have been murdered and Frau Antje is standing with a joint in her mouth, a kalashnikov in her hands and a cheese from which the cocaine dripping on the front page of Der Spiegel. Now there is 400 million in the budget for tackling undermining crime. I always thought all crime was undermining. My question is whether this cabinet itself thinks that this is enough. According to the Dutch Police Union, at least not, and the Defence Trade Unions indicate nothing more or less than that the armed forces are in crisis. A diversity course isn't gonna help with that. Mr. Chairman. How are our households? The expected GDP growth is 3.9% in 2021 and 3.5% in 2022. But what do Henk and Ingrid notice? In the last ten years, where the economy has also grown sharply, the average household income, unlike the neighbouring European countries, has simply remained at zero. And it's getting more and more serious. We have already mentioned the increase in energy prices, largely due to tight taxes. In addition, inflation is not going to be compensated for, for the simple reason that the CBS figures in no way reflect actual inflation. The huge rise in house prices means that living, if you succeed, requires an increasing share of family income, without house prices being included in inflation. Rental prices have also increased 1.8 times faster than inflation over the last 30 years. Even worse is the situation with pensioners. Their pensions have not been indexed for 13 years. This is due to the fact that interest rates have now fallen to 0% over the same period and that this government remains rigid on interest rates for incomprehensible reasons, while the return on pension funds remains on average 7%, which is equivalent to a doubling of pension assets of ten years. The money from pension funds, the money from the pensioners, is now plotting against the plinths, but the pensioners are being squeezed out. The question is why pensions are not indexed, while indexation would certainly not slow down the growth of pension funds. This has to do with the drama of the euro, I ask the Minister. With the pot of gold for southern Europe, where debts have been well above the Brussels standard of 60% for years and where families are richer than in the Netherlands, for whom we are finally going to pay the bill? Or does the outgoing cabinet know here too not to assess the size of the major problems caused by the euro for our country and therefore the solutions? Mr President, I will conclude. It has to be and it can be different. When it comes to the PVV, we stop the billions wasted on immigration, climate hysteria, development aid and Europe. Then we're going to spend our money on our country. Then we will ensure that there are enough homes for our young people and that there is enough money for health care, that pensions are indexed again and that family income grows back with the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u244	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mr Ester has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u245	Mr. Chairman. Considering the financial state of our country, I spontaneously remembered the title of the beautiful book Abundance and unease, about the Netherlands in the Golden Age, of the British historian Simon Schama. This reflects the image of a country where economic progress is good but which also has the necessary social unrest. The Macro Economic Exploration shows that the Netherlands has emerged resiliently from the corona crisis. The blow was big, but the recovery is similar. Public debt stabilises and remains below the European ceiling of 60% of GDP despite strong support to businesses of around 80 billion. The budget deficit of -2.3% is also below the European standard. The unemployment rate has been limited and is going to fall from my head to 3.5% for next year. The number of bankruptcies is lower than expected. Dramatic cuts have not been made and our GDP is growing by about 3.5% next year. Business investment is also gaining momentum. The Christian Union Group congratulates the government on its decisive financial action. Compliment also for our entrepreneurs who have shown great improvisation and perseverance. The massive emergency aid has served its purpose. But the downside of this good news is rising inflation, unprecedented house prices and stagnant purchasing power. Moreover, all predictions depend on whether there will be a new, deep and long lockdown, the vaccination rate and turbulence on the international political stage. Uncertainty is a trump card here. Mr. Chairman. Macroeconomically, the Netherlands may have emerged remarkably quickly from the corona epidemic, the micro-economic experience is another. That's where the unease is. The statistical reality of the Millions note is not the experience of many Dutch people. The flexibility of the labour market has become an abomination. House prices have exploded. House buyers are deep in debt and even the redemption-free mortgage has been back. Energy prices are rising and purchasing power figures are not believed. Prices and inflation are rising. Indexation of pensions remains out, the healthcare sector is overloaded and the climate problem leads to doom thinking or denial. Politics is fragmented and confidence in the government has been shaken by, among other things, the poignant surcharge affair. Young people fear for their future and feel misappreciated. It is not self-evident that the present generation will have it better than the previous generation. And the once proud middle class feels threatened by uncertainty. The working poor, a group that attracts little political attention, gets the ends, as it turns out, barely tied together. They have no buffers to arm themselves against financial setbacks. They often earn just too much for help through food banks. Is it not time to increase minimum wages to provide structural relief for this group? What is the Minister's reflection, the Christian Union Group, on this contradictory picture of abundance and unease, of strong economic pluses but also of strong social minuses? Earlier I called this the head of the Dutch economy. Mr. Chairman. Macroeconomic developments raise the question of what the European budgetary rules are worth. That was discussed before. Monetary reins have been firmly celebrated and the overall escape clause of the SGP Pact has been activated by the corona crisis. Does the Minister see the need for new budget discipline as advocated by, among other things, the Council of State and the CPB? And, if so, what budgetary standards do he have in mind? Binding expenditure anchors are indispensable for sound public finances. If the trend in fiscal policy comes back again, I ask the Minister. Higher interest rates are certainly not imaginary. See recent developments in the United States, which will put an end to our debt. Mr. Chairman. The sustainability deficit is deteriorating and goes to -1.5% of GDP. The financial burden of ageing populations is not covered in the longer term. That was discussed before. The rapid, structural increase in healthcare expenditure remains worrying, however good the quality of our care provision is, and constitutes a social dilemma of the first order. Over the next 25 years, expenditure will double. Already we are spending around 25% of the total budget of 353 billion on healthcare. What is the Minister's assessment of its impact on the youngest generation? That affects their future prospects. They pay a large part of the sustainability deficit. How does he evaluate his ministerial direction on the sustainability deficit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u246	I can well follow the argument, except for the part about the sustainability deficit. The CPB takes an interest rate of around 2%, while no economist in the world expects interest rates to rise so much. The nominal growth rate is, of course, soon 3% or 4%. If the interest rate falls below the growth rate, the shelf life will explode. Then we must invest as much as possible with the largest possible funding gap, which I do not even want. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this, but the sustainability deficit is now not a good measure because of this low interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u247	I understand. I'd like to wait for the Minister's answer as well. Only, you say there is no economist who expects interest rates to rise like this. I know a lot of economists who expect that, especially in America. Look at Paul Krugman's recent opinion on this. That's not the least economist in the world. So at that point, I'm questioning you, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u248	That's one of my favorites. But nominal interest rates must be higher than nominal growth. So that's over 4%. No one's expecting that. The Minister also recently explained that the trend of the interest rate reduction has been going on for decades, due to the ageing population and the surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u249	Yes. I should like to make this point in order to paint the correct picture. We'll find out from the Minister how he feels about this later. Mr. Chairman. My group is pleased that the cooperation between coalition and opposition has been able to reverse the Millions Note in a positive way: an additional sum of around 2 billion, with targeted investments in the reduction of energy costs, the reduction of landlord charges and an improvement in our security, on top of the EUR 675 million earmarked for the increase in salaries in the healthcare sector. I have not been able to see before that a millions note with such a sum has been so successfully amended. This joint effort also offers hope for further cooperation between coalition and opposition, including in this house. The coalition partners, together with the opposition parties during the Political Reviews in the Lower House, arranged 500 million for compensation for the energy costs of citizens. That is a fine amount, but not enough to substantially reduce the bill for the 550,000 households living in energy poverty. We all know the calculation that the average energy bill will go up by about €900 a year. Let me stress that half the energy bill now consists of taxes. The Christian Union Group asks the Minister whether the taxation of energy cannot be structurally adjusted rather than occasionally. Last month, the cabinet reacted very alertly by allocating 2.7 billion extra to compensate families and 500 million to support our SMEs, who are threatened by the sharp rise in energy prices. Europe can also provide services here, for example through the joint procurement of energy. What is the state of affairs here, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Macro Economic Recognition estimates that this year families will benefit from a charge relief of 1.7 billion, but next year they will receive a charge increase of 1.4 billion. For business, charges are 0.2 billion and 2.2 billion respectively. How up-to-date are these estimates, given the rising energy prices, I would like to ask the Minister. How does this affect the purchasing power of groups and the turnover expectations of SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u250	I am pleased to hear Mr Ester speak of the great problem of the 550,000 people living in energy poverty. He also noted that the measures previously taken by the cabinet to achieve a generic compensation of the rapidly rising energy bill that was not really helping people enough. It concerns in particular the people who are at the bottom, with the lowest incomes. Do I therefore believe that the Christian Union, on the part of my group, is asking the government to take further measures there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u251	Many additional measures are already being taken, of course, through isolation and such. But I wanted to dig one spade deeper and ask the Minister how he sees the relationship between energy levies and the cost of energy. Half of energy prices are determined by tax levies. So the question is whether we can do something about it in a structural way. Or is that a fact we have to live with? I think this is even better for your concern than your own solution, because this really is a structural adjustment of energy tariffs. I am very curious to see how the Minister, whether the Secretary of State, weighs the imbalance between market price and tax charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u252	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u253	I think that's a very good set of questions for the Minister. I'm also curious about the answer. But how does the Christian Union weigh in this light the fact that taxation on the consumption of natural gas for households is tens of times higher than for large consumers? Shouldn't that crooked relationship be dealt with as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u254	Yeah, that could be pretty good. Then, of course, how exactly are you going to burden that relationship? Moreover, there is a certain reasoning as to why the ratio was chosen as it was chosen. Maybe I can take that question through the chairman to the Secretary of State. But if we really want to change that, we will have to weigh it together. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u255	I appreciate a little more precision from Mr Ester's side on his way to the Tax Plan. I am sure that we will talk more extensively with the Secretary of State about what this compensation package is like. It has also been widely exchanged in the House of Representatives. In the meantime, it is 3.2 billion: 500 million plus the additional measures taken by the cabinet. That's very generic. It's a lot of money. Everyone knows that it ends up being too much for people who don't need it and that it doesn't end up being enough for people who do. Mr Ester himself was quite right to make the point of the more than 0.5 million households with energy poverty. We have to be able to do better than that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u256	I totally agree with you, but the question is how do you do that? That is a rather complicated exercise, on which the pieces have also been extensively reflected. It's not a question of compensating people, and then it's over. If you really want to compensate at the bottom I feel very much in it with you. Then you should also look at the houses in which people live. How well are they isolated? Can something be done about that? That's where the complicating factor is, so I get out of the government's pieces: it's hard to do something about it one-on-one. This is complicated. I am well aware that this answer is not very satisfactory, but it is the real practice of everyday life. If we could come up with something, it would be of great benefit to us. But I also see its complications, and I'm sure you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u257	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u258	That starts with the question of whether the Christian Union also insists that you have to compensate for the problem of the increased gas price through the energy bill system. If you hold onto that, that is a political choice and then you automatically limit the options.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u259	Yeah, that's right. I understand what you're saying. Only that, if you want to do something in the short term, is the appropriate policy instruments. If you want to do it by the other way, through insulation et cetera, then it just goes over for many years. So I do understand that choice, however unsatisfactory it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u260	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u261	Surely we could spend that 3.2 billion much better by putting part of it into sustainability measures? They do not immediately provide a lower account, but rather the perspective that if you really do well, maybe that account will eventually disappear altogether and that you will give the people with the narrowest scholarship a thirteenth month. That is super-focused, efficient, efficient and transition-oriented: entirely the story that makes Mr.Ester happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u262	I'll be happy to think about it. I'm not gonna respond now and embrace that plan; I'm gonna need a little time to do that. But I am sure you will give me and my group that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u263	Please continue your argument, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u264	The static purchasing power plates are not spectacular: an increase of 0.8% in 2021, which almost stabilizes in 2022. However you think about purchasing power forecasts, my group is pleased that the differences between groups are not getting out of hand. The burden of one earner is reduced a little bit. However, my group has great difficulty in freezing child benefit. Is that wise at a time when families, also financially, are under such pressure? My group would also like to hear what the forecasts are for income and wealth inequalities in our country. Recent SCP research shows that reducing social inequality does not really work well. How does the Minister assess this worrying conclusion? The CU Group welcomes the fact that the government parties, together with the opposition, have secured 500 million to accelerate the abolition of the maled landlord's tax. We've talked about that a few times. Not only is the original objective of the levy obsolete, but it also hampers the much-needed investments of housing cooperatives. And that is precisely at a time when the need for housing is taking on disastrous forms and is not an obvious choice. The Christian Union Group recognizes much good in the Throne speech and the Millions note. For example, EUR 8 billion is being allocated, and I have already mentioned this with my colleague Mr Backer, in order to overcome educational disadvantages and to invest an additional EUR 1.3 billion in youth care. In addition, 7 billion will be earmarked for reducing CO emissions and more than 0.5 billion will be invested in the rule of law and security. Those are serious amounts for serious problems. The question is, however, I would like to ask you immediately whether all these ambitions can be met, given the increasing scarcity of the labour market. However, we have missed one key issue in the Millions note and the Throne speech. That is the focus on poor countries. Both leave this theme unnamed. Just when poor countries are so plagued by the corona crisis, a generous financial gesture had not been wrong. The IMF points out that the pandemic has increased the differences between poor and rich countries. I would like to ask the Minister what the cabinet can do extra for developing countries. Their fate touches our core values of compassion and solidarity. The Christian Union has always advocated making the broad prosperity perspective the guiding principle of the millions note. It's getting better and better. What is missing is that this perspective also forms the basis of the separate departmental budget chapters, both ex ante and ex post. Could the Minister promise that this will be the standard in future, including as implementation of the Hammelburg et al motion. Who was hired across the street? Mr President, I shall conclude. I started my contribution with a reference to the book Abundance and displeasure of Simon Schama. He gave his book a stimulating motto by John Calvin: let those who have abundance remember that they are surrounded by thorns and let them be careful not to be pricked by them. Quite in translation: just as many financial and economic signals are on the green again, we need to get the vulnerable groups to share in them and not move them further away. I would very much like to give this motto to the forming parties as a guideline for our financial and economic policy. We pray for God's blessing for that. I look forward to the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u265	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Finally, for lunch, I give the floor to Mr van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I was expecting a meal before I started talking. Anyway, it's gonna work. The most interesting part of the otherwise some obligatory Millions note is, in my opinion, the last part, which deals with the challenges for the future. But when I read about these challenges, I always thought: weren't they already there, and also equally urgent, when the cabinet arrived four years ago? What has the government done with these challenges in the meantime? Of course, not nothing has happened at all, but in my group's view, the government has too often reacted at the most and has not ruled in dealing with the major social problems, which are now being transferred to the new cabinet, consisting of the same parties. After eleven years of Rutte we get another fourth variant of the same. But with the last budget of Rutte III, it is time to take stock. Let me go through the challenges. Firstly, the quality improvement in education, which the Millions note refers to, is indeed absolutely necessary, but it has been for years. As part of the impact of the corona pandemic, an additional 8.5 billion has now been allocated to education. What education needs, above all, it has been remembered before today... are structural investments and they remain out again. Why only occasionally and not also structural money, I ask the Minister. Maybe he'll find the answer on his phone. Then there's the housing crisis. After eleven years of Rutte's cabinet, it took such large forms that it hits larger and larger groups and has allowed people, especially young people, to go on the streets massively. However, the cabinet, hostaged by the VVD, still refuses to convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation. While more and more people cannot find an affordable home, the government refuses to tackle wealthy investors and predatory capitalists who contribute to this problem, such as Blackstone. We do not, of course, know what will come out of the formation, which must go on without the minister today, because he still has to be a minister; that is what is supposed to happen in a parliamentary democracy, but of course the approach to the housing crisis should never have been passed on to another cabinet. I'd like a response from the Minister. Unfortunately, these weeks have shown that the challenges in healthcare are enormous again in the overloaded hospitals and in the ic's. This is not only due to the fact that the government is always behind the facts because of its failing corona policy, but also because there is a structural shortage of care capacity and investment, not even during the more than one and a half years of corona crisis. I'd like a response from the Minister. The fact that wages in the care sector are finally rising structurally is a much needed first step, but it has been taken despite and not thanks to this cabinet. With regard to the labour market, the government also sees the vulnerability of flex contracts as a challenge, but the total flexibility of the labour market and the insecurity that it creates for a growing group of people has, of course, been a major problem for much longer. Moreover, it is part of a larger division, one that goes right through our society and leaves ever deeper traces. It is a division between not only flex and solid, but also between practical and theoretical skilled, between people with a lot of job opportunities, good education, an affordable home and a healthy life and a group of people with much less opportunities. Divorcing SCP director Kim Putters has been warning about this growing gap for years. Our society is becoming less and less a "society." That should not only concern socialists. During the previous Financial Reviews, my group called again for attention to be paid to this, but again we do not see anything about this wider gap in the Millions Note. There may be little else to expect from an in essence, with the exception of the right-wing government, but it raises the question of how the Minister sees it. Does he not see, with Kim Putters, that there is also a challenge for the next cabinet, at least, when it comes to the growing division? This brings me to a challenge I miss in the government's future view. It is one to which my group has paid attention year after year. This concerns the large and growing wealth inequality in the Netherlands. The growing gap between rich and poor in our society is not only deeply unjust, but also at the expense of the quality of our society, of social cohesion, and undermines our democracy. Recently there was news that the number of billionaires in the Netherlands has risen to a record number of 45. As far as the SP Group is concerned, these are 45 too many. In a decent and honest society, no one would have to be so absurdly rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u267	This is about the same speech Mr Van Apeldoorn made last year. I would like to ask him whether he has taken note of the CBS report of 14 October. It indicates, for example, that child poverty has fallen by half since 1980, that income inequality has increased slightly until 1999, but has stabilised since then, and that the percentage of the super rich has remained stable over the last 40 years. Of the 45 countries surveyed in Europe, the percentage is even the lowest. If he has not read that report, I would like to give Mr Van Apeldoorn a copy with love and pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u268	Thank you to Mr Van Ballekom for his intervention. I know that report. It is important to keep income inequality and property inequality apart here. The income inequality in the Netherlands is fairly stable. There are countries with lower income inequalities. The pay gap between, for example, CEOs and the workplace has indeed increased in the Netherlands. It also depends a little on which statistics you look at. Indeed, the gini coefficient has not increased in all these years. The wealth inequality in the Netherlands, according to various investigations............................................................................................................................................................................................ It is about the highest in Europe in the rich countries, the OECD countries. Outside Europe, only the United States has a higher capacity inequality. That inequality has also increased. The richest 1% in the Netherlands owns a third of the total capital. The richest 0.1% own 16% of the total capital. If that's not a very large, extreme power inequality, then I don't remember either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u269	Given the time, I propose that we proceed unless Mr Van Ballekom has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u270	No, Mr President, I am not going to repeat last year's discussion. Apparently, we'll never agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u271	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u272	Those were just the facts, Mr. Chairman. While these 45 super rich people have a total of 219.6 billion, there are also 220,000 working poor people in the Netherlands, who have often had to go deep into debt and who, despite having a job, are often unable to go on vacation or later have to tell the children that the good man unfortunately did not have time to visit their home. What does the Minister actually think of this contrast? Does he see this as a social problem? And why hasn't this cabinet once again committed itself to a substantial increase in the minimum wage? And, as I say in the direction of Mr Ballekom, there are still 250,000 children growing up in poverty in our country. That is and remains a disgrace. With the support of many other groups, we have often drawn attention to this in this House, and in the end, by means of a very broad-based motion, we have encouraged the government to achieve a quantitative reduction target. What is the situation here, I ask the Minister. My group is not yet satisfied with the implementation of this motion. Mr. Chairman. Let me also mention with the government the perhaps greatest challenge, the climate crisis, a few days after 200 governments again failed to take the necessary steps now. In this budget, the government allocates 6.8 billion extra to the climate, but still leaves it to the big polluters to pay for the transition that is so vital. Nor will we achieve that transition if its costs are not distributed fairly. That brings me to the energy tax. The cabinet has now partially compensated for the rapidly rising energy bill, but my group finds it incomprehensible that households still pay about 30 times more for their natural gas than companies. Why is this energy tax still so unfair, I ask the Minister. Several colleagues, especially those of the Christian Union, have already called for attention to be paid to combating the growing energy poverty. Why has the government only come up with generic compensation, when people with the lowest incomes will still have a lot of trouble paying their energy bill? I am considering tabling a motion on these points. Mr. Chairman. However, the government must also be praised. It has learned with other governments in the European Union and organisations such as the IMF from the macroeconomic blunder during the previous crisis. Instead of making immediate cuts again, the government has spent a lot of extra 80 billion over several years, especially to keep the economy alive during the crisis. The SP did not always agree with how and under what conditions the money was spent. I will just mention the 6.5 billion that went to a single company, KLM. But we were pleased that the government realised that only massive government intervention could prevent much worse. That's what happened. The economic recovery, despite the great visible traces that the pandemic drew through our economy and society, has come faster than almost everyone, including my group, thought at the time. That's downright positive. And when we look at next year's budget, we see that cuts are still absent. This is extremely sensible, because the recovery is still fragile in many respects, and also because, instead of austerity, much public investment in a better society is still needed and recognises more than this cabinet. This fragile recovery may become even more fragile now that we are back in the umpteenth corona wave in the Netherlands and elsewhere. Can the Minister reflect on that? Meanwhile, rapidly rising inflation also threatens the purchasing power of many people, even though this purchasing power was already at zero, despite the growing economy. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The minister turned out to have much deeper pockets than he himself supposedly wanted to, or rather publicly, acknowledge. It has been shown that under sufficient pressure everything is actually liquid. If it's necessary, there's plenty of money. So the minister or his successor can no longer say that there is no money. Nor can the Minister say: 'Can't, 'Can't', 'Can't' from Brussels. If necessary, the tight budgetary rules, both their own and those of Brussels, can be abolished at once without proving to be the end of the world. On the contrary, it helps us and has helped us to prevent long-term social and economic misery. If demand is so massive that teaches basic macro-economics.... the government has to step in and empty the deep pockets. The question is, however, whether we will finally be rid of Brussels' tight reins and whether the Minister will advise his successor to work in Europe for at least more intelligent rules. Mr. Chairman. What is also historic, again thanks to the House of Representatives and not because of the government, is that after decades of reduction and after previous government intentions to achieve a further reduction in the tax on profits, and after those proposals had fallen, the VPB tariff has now risen for the first time, albeit with a modest 0.8%. For my group, this historic turning point is the starting point for a much fairer distribution of the burden between labour and capital. I see Mr Van Ballekom looking skeptical. The same applies to the approach to tax avoidance, for example via the Zuidas to the Virgin Islands, a route of which, to our surprise, the Minister did not know in 2009 that it was so sensitive. Fortunately, he knows that now, and with him the government and many other governments, witness the recent important OECD agreement. But here I would like to add a lot of questions to Mr Crone's question for my group. I'd like to hear a first reflection from the Secretary of State on that. This is the shocking news from yesterday that this cabinet is considering kneeling again for big business and proposing that the dividend tax be abolished. I hope the message isn't true, but I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Otherwise we will certainly come back to this in detail with the Tax Plan. Of course, I have another question to the other Secretary of State concerning the continuing surcharge scandal, in which so many people are still waiting for reimbursement and compensation for the suffering they have suffered. Because it takes so long, these people feel abandoned again by the government. In the debate with the Secretary of State in February of this year, my group drew the attention of the Secretary of State to the expensive duty of realising the promises made to the victims. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that this is not the case, now that only 10% of the notified victims have had an overall assessment and the rest are still in uncertainty. The slow progress of the recovery operation and the accumulation of errors in this process risk becoming a new scandal. How is it possible, I ask the Secretary of State, that this should take so long? How does it itself reflect the fact that the government has failed in this way to honour the promises made of rapid recovery, in so far as the suffering in question can ever be repaired?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u273	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, are you paying attention to your remaining speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u274	Mr President, I will conclude. This may well be the last financial review of this Minister, but I do not look any less forward to his reply and the follow-up to the debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u275	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-eerstekamer-3.u276	I'm suspending the sitting for the break until 1:30 p.m.
