ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u1	Good evening, members of the Lower House of States General. Welcome to this plenary debate on the working methods of NCTV. Welcome to the Minister of Justice and Security, Mr Grapperhaus. We're gonna talk tonight about the NCTV's M.O. Sixteen speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. So I'm looking forward to a nice evening. I hope you do, too. I call Mr Azarkan, who has requested this debate. Mr. Azarkan, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr President, thank you. It promises to be a fascinating evening. Mr. Chairman. What is our government doing? Have the ministers forgotten that we have laws and rules? Why don't they keep a grip on their services if they break the law and thereby violate civil rights? It gets worse every day. The Tax Administration broke the law by collecting information about citizens and, on that basis, discriminated against and destroyed people. We saw that Social Affairs and municipalities used the SyRI fraud system to collect improper information. The judge didn't allow it. It was not only in breach of our laws, but also of the European Convention on Human Rights. We saw that the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre of Defense secretly followed civilians during the corona crisis. That's also suspended because it broke the law. Today is the fourth debate on the government, which wipes its proverbial buttocks with our laws and rules. I'm talking about the NCTV. Many people don't know it, even here in the Chamber, but it's not a security service. They play secret service there sometimes, but it's just a department of the Justice Department. It has no more powers than any other department within the government. Mr. Chairman. What's the matter with our security services that they're breaking our laws? I read the Minister's letter on the working methods of the NCTV and I thought: I probably confuse it with a piece of work by one of his children. The Minister comes up with meaningless information. A number of pages are really irrelevant. He's staying away from the core problem. He even talks about the mission statement; we are dealing here with colleagues who are Justice and Security spokesperson. He mentions the origin history and the passerby, which is irrelevant. He might as well have brought up his hobbies. Mr. Chairman. There are three core problems with the NCTV. There is no legal supervisory framework. What's going on in that black box? There's no one who really knows. The Justice and Security Inspectorate and the Personal Data Authority have never investigated the way in which they collect and store information. They know damn well that they are breaking the law, because when the NRC was published they immediately deleted the accounts with which they followed people. The way they look at these laws is actually best embodied by Paul Abels, chief of analysis. He shared a bit on Twitter about the "privacy madness" in the Netherlands. He called that the Western variant of the burqa. So you're the head of that service and then you say, "I'm told I don't like something because of the GDPR. Why so much authority at this point? Why do we have to obey the law?" And he also takes the liberty of lectures on elected representatives. To Mr Omtzigt, who asked a number of questions, he simply says: "No, Mr Omtzigt, you haven't learned anything yourself. It is the asking diarrhoea of you and of the Chamber that prevents officials and administrators from the real work. If the Chamber really were to stick its hand in its own bosom, that would be adorn her." Imagine giving an elected representative a sweep out of the pan. Mr. Chairman. The second point concerns the active involvement in criminal prosecution in individual cases. That's just not allowed. The Minister may do so exceptionally, but if departments do so, that is not to be verified. Mr. Chairman. The third point concerns the quality of the analyses. We've seen an unfulfilled piece leak after all. That was just gossip. My fellow Members then asked a number of questions about this. They all jumped on, because it was about Turkey. Then it always has the attention. But it was gossip; those were foremen and adversaries really agree. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask two things from the Minister. The first is the immediate cessation of activities that violate the law. Secondly, I would like an independent study led by the CTIVD on the methodology and action of the NCTV in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now turn to the second speaker. That's Mr. Wassenberg speaking on behalf of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a question to the Minister right away. Does he think that the government in the Netherlands should comply with Dutch law? I ask this because we have, of course, seen examples in recent years where that did not happen. Think of Urgenda. On 19 May, two years ago, we had the nitrogen verdict, in which the Council of State had to say: the Netherlands, you keep to your own legislation. Over the last few months, we have seen in three cases that public authorities have been spying on citizens, in violation of the law. We saw at the end of last year that the army was spying on its own citizens. Last month, we saw different municipalities spying on their own citizens. And what did we see this spring? The NCTV has been following civilians for years. They did it through illegal fake accounts. They have actively collected and shared personal data with different bodies, sometimes even with secret services from other countries. That could have a huge impact on people. And all without any legal basis. It's illegal. Does the Minister admit that the practices of NCTV, a department of his ministry, were illegal? And if he admits that, and I don't think he can do anything else, is he willing to apologize? Mr. Chairman. Then the next question to the Minister: why didn't he intervene? It can't be that he woke up when that piece was in NRC. According to NRC, since 2014, it has been known that NCTV surveillance practices had no legal basis. Yet they continued for years. How the hell is that possible? What has the Minister been doing all this time? Mr. Chairman. The NCTV was established to coordinate the field of counter-terrorism, not to collect intelligence itself. That's what the AIVD and the STUDY are already doing. They are allowed to do so under the Tow Act, which was adopted in 2018. The Animal Party voted against that, by the way. The AIVD and the STIVD are controlled by an external supervisor and the NCTV are not. But NCTV is not and should not be intelligence. That's what the Minister writes. Then why is the Minister going to legalise NCTV's illegal practices? That's what he wrote to the Chamber yesterday. Mr. Chairman. Why are the data of peaceful activists shared with foreign security services, as is shown by access data of activists? Do we really need another body with far-reaching powers that puts pressure on rights such as privacy, data protection and freedom of expression? Will it really make the Netherlands safer, or will we only create more mistrust? Mr. Chairman. The state does not have the best record in protecting citizens' data. The Animal Party argues for a fundamental discussion about the cost of the government's data hunger. If even innocent civilians are followed, we live in a surveillance state. Without privacy, no security. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about the totally inappropriate pressure the NCTV is exerting on the Public Prosecutor's Office. NRC wrote about it on 29 April. The D.A. speaks of unwanted interference by the NCTV. The NCTV secretly tries to obtain confidential information from the police outside the official channels and to obtain it by contacting individual officials. Both the D.A. and the police have addressed the NCTV. It is not true, the Minister writes in his answer to parliamentary questions. But then I'd like to ask the Minister: who does he think is lying? Is the police lying? Is the D.A. lying? Is the paper lying? I'd like an answer. Meanwhile, we saw harassment of journalists and threats with legal proceedings by the former head of the NCTV analysis service. We talked about this a few months ago in Question Time, but it remains unsatisfactory. In yesterday's newspaper, we read about two camps within the NCTV that blame each other for tunnel vision and each other's work to the bottom. Apparently, even within the NCTV, the secret service that shouldn't be at all, a big fight is being fought. This seems to me to be enough reason for an independent investigation into the development of the NCTV. My final question is: is the Minister prepared to do so, to conduct an independent investigation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mr. Markuszower, I'd like to invite you to come to the conference room and make your contribution on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u6	Thank you, Madam President. This cabinet spends more time importing terrorists than fighting terrorists. A legal problem has not been solved for a long time. As a result, the NCTV is less able to do its job and therefore the Netherlands is more unsafe than necessary. The importance of a functioning NCTV is great. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security was established after the Islamic terrorist attacks in Madrid to effectively shape counter-terrorism policy in the Netherlands. The NCTV must protect the Netherlands from, among other things, horrible Islamic terror threats, which have been holding hold not only of the Netherlands but of the whole of Europe for decades. The NCTV also plays a role in the security of politicians, as is unfortunately necessary with Geert Wilders, the taking away of passports from Syrians, which is far too little, and attacks, such as the Islamic attack on a tram in Utrecht. NCTV analysts are accused of making incorrect threat analyses and of illegally storing personal data. Why doesn't the Minister provide a solid legal basis? The minister says it's all taking so long because of care, but is it too much to ask the minister and his staff to be both careful and quick to act? The Minister has indicated that he has been working on a legislative path since 2020. We know the minister can be quick. When he had to take liberties from the Corona Act last year, he was there like the chickens. But now, now that the freedoms of terrorists are at stake, he's in slow-motion mode. The NCTV will therefore be reluctant to deal with the processing of personal data and certain activities have even been completely suspended. This concerns the provision of evidence on individual persons for the purpose of the Task Force Problematic Behaviour and undesirable foreign funding. Local authorities also made grateful use of these important analyses. These analyses are therefore important for the safety of the Netherlands and are now needed. How many dangerous imams, money flows and Islamic hate palaces are not now in sight because of this own failing policy? How many detaching terrorists, jihadists, sympathizers of the jihad and other dangerous Muslims does the NCTV not now have in view, I ask the Minister. The Minister must accurately identify the risks. I would like to receive a letter from the Minister on this. It is impossible for the Minister to have this in order, while he has more than 25,000 officials at his ministry. It is completely unacceptable that the Netherlands and the Dutch have been in unnecessary danger for more than a year to this day. I therefore ask the Minister when he will close this legal gap. Enough delay; get to work! Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday we could read in the newspaper how the NCTV tried to launch an anti-jihad campaign in a toe-curving way, but went down spectacularly. Instead of doing something useful with our tax money and keeping the Netherlands safe, theatre pieces are subsidised for at least 1 million euros a year. Goat wollen naive fake psychologists invent the most ridiculous plays in the hope that Muslim youngsters may be, I quote, "be resistant to Islam hatred." But it is so virulent that a left-wing cultural subsidy can really offer zero-point counterweight. Employees of NCTV have already informed the Minister that this is a waste of money and is not doing anything for the fight against terrorism. Our request to the minister is: spend a lot of NCTV money on targeting terrorists and on concrete measures that make the Netherlands really safer, such as closing all mosques in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u7	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. There's an interruption for you, I think, from Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u8	The debate has been requested following the non-legislative approach of the NCTV. Now my question to Mr Markuszower of the PVV is what he thinks of this method, as mentioned in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u9	I think that in my text I have just referred to this as 'a legal problem', a hole that needs to be closed. I also regard it not only as a legal gap, but above all as a security hole. So I hope the Minister closes that hole. I have faith in that too, you know, that's what he's gonna do. He just needs to do it a little faster. That hole must therefore be closed, so that the NCTV can get back to work to make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u10	Now it is also written that the NCTV Thierry Baudet, Geert Wilders and other people who have some extreme views were watching. The question is whether that falls within the law. A number of legal scholars say the NCTV shouldn't do that at all. They can't collect information, or they'll have to ask permission to do so. They can't just store it. But do I understand that Mr Markuszower says: do I really want this NCTV to carry out the PVV's agenda, which is to go after Muslims and close mosques, but that the NCTV is not going after other threats? 'Cause that's the "problem." If we break the law, it's a "problem." What does Mr Markuszower want from NCTV? And does he think they should act under our rule of law or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u11	Yes, the NCTV is a public service, as Mr Azarkan said himself in his contribution, like all other public services. And it's pleasant and necessary for the government to comply with the law. Apparently, a legal gap has now been identified. The Minister also noted that. He noticed that last February, and he has to close it. I think the Minister's gonna do the same. I'm just saying he needs to do it faster. I may not understand the question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u12	Last but not least, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u13	Mr Markuszower says that public services must comply with the law. At the same time, he's asking NCTV to arrest terrorists, which they can't do at all, and to close mosques, which they can't. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u14	Well, the NCTV has a coordinating role. The NCTV can therefore have a role in, for example, taking away nationality, for example, from Syrians. They can play a part in that. The actual taking is, of course, ultimately done by the minister, by a cabinet, and not by a public service. Of course, Mr Azarkan knows that, but let us not go into the legal details entirely. But the NCTV can certainly play a coordinating role. That's also in that beautiful presentation we could all listen to. So I don't see the problem very well. If there's a legal gap, it needs to be closed. The Minister does so, and I hope he does so quickly, and once he does so, the NCTV will be functioning in accordance with the law. And, of course, all threats must be addressed, but what is the hardest must weigh the hardest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u15	Thank you. I now turn to Mr van Nispen, who will speak on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u16	Thank you. Lately, there's been a lot to do about the NCTV. There were stories about intimidation and an unsafe working environment, there was discussion about the quality of the analyses and there were concerns about the legal protection of involved. There were signs of political interference and non-compliance by the NCTV itself when following people. There was also the attempt to intimidate the whistleblower from the story in NRC and there were negative tweets about Pieter Ommzigt by a top official of the NCTV who is responsible for securing politicians. The Minister's response was mainly to reduce the problems. And to the extent that there was a problem with the legal basis that was missing, that basis had to be created as soon as possible, while you could also say that NCTV should continue to abide by the rules. But I'm gonna take a step back. What's the NCTV doing on Earth? Why was it ever founded? What is the need and added value of NCTV today? What is still the distinction between investigation services and security services? Mr. Chairman. The NCTV was established to improve cooperation in the fight against terrorism, to gather information and to coordinate policies. The supervision and security of persons, cybersecurity and national crisis management have also been invested in NCTV. In my opinion, it was never the intention to collect information on its own. After all, we already have services for this that have to comply with much more legal guarantees. How was it ever decided this was a good idea? I think it became vulnerable in 2014. The task then shifted from coordination and improving cooperation to the development, dissemination and implementation of policies by the NCTV itself, on behalf of the Minister. And then I think it's gonna sand. So you get that analyses have to be in line with government policy. And then you get that the NCTV is going to collect information about individuals and interfere with measures such as exit bans or reporting obligations. Those are tasks that actually belong better with the D.A. and AIVD? I think there's been a fragile mix. I believe that the NCTV should return to its core tasks of coordinating the fight against terrorism and improving cooperation, even if the question is why there is still no proper cooperation. Can't they do that by themselves? Isn't there some kind of power struggle between the different ministries? In the past, there was also the issue of Home Affairs on the one hand and Justice on the other. I challenge the Minister to prove the need for NCTV and its added value vis-à-vis the search and security services and to respond to my analysis that the NCTV has been pushed out and that there is reason to reconsider, namely back to the core tasks. In my opinion, a number of things need to be improved anyway. I think the NCTV should stop monitoring people and online monitoring. There are other services for that and they do have a legal basis for that. Improving, as long as this is not in order, at least the legal protection of individuals, because collecting and sharing information about individuals has consequences for those involved, without people being able to defend themselves against it. 'Cause then suddenly it's a secret. Where do people complain? Where do you have access to your data? That must be absolutely clear, but it is not now. Nor should NCTV interfere with individual cases. NCTV should therefore not influence decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office concerning, for example, criminal prosecution or supervision of individuals. If the Minister is interfering in criminal matters, he must do so through a lead. Then it's transparent. But if the NCTV does that on behalf of the minister, it's missing. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u17	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mrs. Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u18	It is an interesting speech by Mr Van Nispen. I'm still chewing at the point where people need to know what's going on with the information they're looking for. I read the Minister's papers in such a way that information is sought online. You and I can find that information, too, and it's being used for a threat analysis. If that were the case, it is a legitimate question to the Minister whether that is the case too. Do you see it as a task to inform those persons, because they are personal data? Because then we have to keep each other informed all day, because we're all watching each other all day. How do you see the use of public sources? Because that's how I read the Minister's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u19	That's a fair question. I'd like to explain. In my opinion, the public sources are also used to make threat analyses. I think that's good. That's what the NCTV should do. But the focus has shifted a bit towards following people as well. That's not what I'm here for. I explained that. But as long as that happens, I think it is important that people at some point also know on what basis decisions are taken. If NCTV might share public sources, so gathers information about individuals and, for example, shares with municipalities, it may be that certain permits are not granted or other decisions are taken that affect people. If it's not clear why that happens, I think we have a problem. I believe that legal protection will fail. That's what lawyers point out when they're in court and want to know where information comes from. Sometimes the NCTV can rely on secret information, because then it comes from the AIVD, when it comes to decisions that affect people. That is exactly what I think is vulnerable. The D.A. and the police are bound by legal safeguards. There is a legal basis for that. The same goes for the security services. But the NCTV doesn't actually have one, so you get these kinds of complicated issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u20	It is precisely the prosecutor and the police who conduct investigations in the context of a search or in the context of public order and security. We are very often dealing with local security issues here, for example when a hate preacher arrives who wants to speak in municipality X or Y. "Dear NCTV, how should I appreciate this? What do you want me to do? Is this a good preacher or indeed a hate preacher?" We are talking about public resources that are being used to enable local government to keep things safe on that particular evening, or whenever it is? You act as if they are gathering some sort of huge amount of information about everyone, but the collection is very specific in the field of security, where national security and terrorism are concerned. How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u21	The practice is more repulsive than Mrs Michon is describing here. It is true that there have been several trials. Part of these examples of lawyers and the problems they face are also mentioned in NRC articles. If this were true, and it would only be public sources, how can NCTV sometimes rely on it to be secret information that they can't share? Then something goes wrong, or it's information from the AIVD, and then the party is the AIVD. But if NCTV relies partly on public information and partly on secret information, and you cannot defend yourself against the fact that you cannot use your right to freedom of expression and that kind of thing, then it affects people without being able to defend themselves against it. That's exactly my point. In my view, this shows that the expansion of tasks leads to very complex questions. That is why I am in favour of going back to the core tasks. I can finish up, because I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u22	That's what I was about to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u23	Well, that's convenient. I too would have liked to ask who supervises the NCTV. The Minister then says: that is all right, because we have the inspection and the Personal Data Authority. But we know that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is heavily overburdened, and that, of course, it deals mainly with the privacy issue when an individual complains. The inspection is more systematic, for example, when a case is examined. But where is the supervision of the NCTV's daily activities? If the NCTV continues with everything he's doing right now, we might have to put it in the CTIVD. But if we find this undesirable because the CTIVD is monitoring the intelligence and security services, I believe that the conclusion must be that the NCTV is no longer doing what it is doing and must therefore return to its core task, namely coordinating the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Mrs. Ellemeet has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u25	Mr Van Nispen spoke just now about the danger that the independence of NCTV would be put under pressure, because some of the powers are directly related to the minister's political mission. Could you explain a little more about the danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u26	Thanks for the question. In my opinion, there are several examples of this in the NRC's article, and Mr Azarkan also gave an example. In my view, the analysis is correct that external sensitivities or certain political sensitivities are sometimes taken into account. Mrs Van der Werf and I have also asked questions about this. The Minister's answer is that it is not all that bad because these analyses are independent. I would like to assume that this is true for the threat images, using partly public sources, but also partly AIVD information. I think it's going very well. But I think it goes wrong with measures that affect individuals. For example, it is a question of pressing the Public Prosecutor's Office to impose a duty of notification, especially to prosecute, or perhaps to wait a while to prosecute. If a minister does so, he must report it publicly to the Chamber on the grounds of the possibility of giving an indication to the Public Prosecutor. But that's missing from the NCTV. And the NCTV is, of course, directly under the political responsibility of the Minister. But precisely because we have given the Minister so many powers in recent years in the fight against terrorism, I believe that this is now also the responsibility of the NCTV; at least that seems to be the case. And I think that's where it goes wrong. That is why my analysis is that since 2014, with the package of measures of then Minister Opstelden, the approach of radicalisation and so on, those 79 measures which had been sent to the Chamber, there have been a great deal of powers. I think that at that point, as far as I am concerned, it has become a little too much, and therefore unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u27	Mrs. Ellemeet, a sequel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u28	Yes. So, if I understand you correctly, you say that because of the increasing number of powers, the NCTV is by definition given a more political colour, so can they operate less independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u29	Let me put it this way: I see that risk arises by definition and that risk has been realised since 2014, since we gave the Minister so many powers. Look, I understand that a department at the Ministry should coordinate policy, promote cooperation and that sort of thing. I also asked myself the question: should we abolish NCTV? Well, I don't think so, as long as cooperation between services is to be promoted and we have to coordinate the fight against terrorism. But that is the core task, and that is what I think it should be about. But when it comes to monitoring people, when it comes to the work of the Minister, namely those powers that I am not necessarily in favour of, we gave them to the Minister: interfering in individual matters, in my opinion, we must say that we must get rid of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u32	Mrs Michon is going to take the floor and she is speaking on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u33	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The core task of the government is to keep our country safe, to ensure that we can all live freely and safely in the Netherlands. It's not gonna happen on its own. That's where our services, the police, all the mayors and every party in the criminal justice chain, and the NCTV working day and night, 24/7. And today it's about the NCTV. The NCTV is an indispensable partner in the security domain; not intelligence, mind you, but an indispensable partner. The added value of NCTV is, in my group's view, undisputed in terms of the machining of information. This added value is also clearly seen in local government. The quality of information must therefore also be undisputed, both in terms of content and in the light of GDPR. The NCTV was set up in 2004 and colleague Van Nispen also referred to it in order to coordinate the exchange of information between public authorities. The NCTV also has the task of managing the identification and analysis of threats and risks in the field of terrorism and national security. It is therefore primarily about trends, about phenomena, about developments in our threat picture. Nowhere is it clear how far that coordinator can go in collecting information about persons and organisations. And that brings us here today. I therefore ask the Minister: has this task changed or developed over the years, which means that this legal basis is now needed more than before? And can the Minister indicate more specifically which sources of information are used for this task? Is that just public information, especially online, or does the NCTV also receive information from the services, and how exactly is it handled? I think it is a good thing that that becomes even clearer today. You state in your letter of 21 May that for this task, "identifying and analysing threats and risks in the field of terrorism and national security', "[special] personal data are processed on the basis of own public source research'. I quote your letter. As an example, you mention: "For example, statements of a hate preacher may fit in with the broader phenomenon of radicalisation and extremism. It has occurred that (special) personal data have been processed in this context. Not for the purpose of researching the individual, but for the purpose of identifying the underlying phenomenon." I can see that. You will then indicate the legal framework: Article 2 of the ECHR There we are again discussing the ECHR... Articles 50 and 51 of the Organisational Decision JenV and the GDPR. Is this then the current framework for the above-mentioned task, which is what is lacking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u34	Mr. Markuszower has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u35	Let's just get back to the previous point. The VVD talks about the core tasks of the NCTV. Does the MP of the VVD also think it is a core task of the NCTV to distribute a million euros to some theater club in order to have all these vague theatre pieces performed so that young people become a little resilient, which they of course do not become at all? How does the VVD feel about that? Does the VVD therefore support our appeal to the Minister to simply stop doing so immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u36	Thanks for the question. Look, about the example you mention, and about which you are making a bit of a fuss, there is something in the action plan that I believe was discussed here in the Chamber in 2014 and for which a majority was in favour. The idea behind that was precisely to make that noise sound and thus to tackle the preventive side. In everything that we do about prevention, we often come to talk about this in committee debates, and you can always ask yourself what it is worth and whether it has helped. I couldn't agree more. But we have agreed to make a counter-sound and to make a full commitment to prevention in these, well, terrible situations. So if you ask me if I am critical of spending money and whether this prevention has helped, then I am on your side. If you say it's bullshit anyway and we shouldn't do anything about prevention, then I'm not on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u37	Please continue your speech. I'm asking you to speak through me. So when you say "you," I feel addressed. It helps if you say "the minister" or "Mr. Markuszower."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u38	Mr. President, excuse me. That's very good of you to say. Mr. Chairman. It is simple for my group: for each role of a partner in the security domain, and therefore also for the tasks of the NCTV, a good legal basis must be provided, which makes clear what the organisation is allowed to do and what safeguards it must build in. This does not seem to be the case at present. It is therefore very important for the Minister to come up quickly with legislation to anchor this well, with which the NCTV can also work well. The second point: there is clearly no legal basis for the representation of persons at the request of municipalities, whether or not through the Task Force Problematic behaviour and unwanted foreign funding. I fully understand the mayors' question; I have been talking about this in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Nispen. But is it true that this task has been suspended until the legal basis is complete? This is a matter of great concern to my group, because the questions of local government are obvious and urgent. Think of information about a hate preacher who wants to speak here, which I was just talking about. So I would like to ask the Minister what to do in the meantime, in which the Minister is working on the legal basis. Will the mayors be able to go to the police? How is the Minister going to ensure that there is no hole in it, with all the risks to our national security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u39	If it turns out that the legal basis is missing, then you can make it or you can say: we are doing what we are allowed to do. Did Mrs. Michon think about that, too? I do not think that coordinating the fight against terrorism and improving cooperation is a problem. We have a legal basis for this, as far as it is necessary. That's one way of thinking. And for following individuals and providing information to municipalities about, for example, a person who may come to preach hatred, you could also use the AIVD or other organisations that may follow individuals and for which there is a legal basis. Did the VVD think about that, too? How did they weigh this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u40	The point I want to make is that the task that NCTV is now carrying out is an essential task for local government. It is specifically about that part, in this example about the person information about the hate preacher that is coming. Now that we see the problem of the legal basis, my group believes that there should be no gap. So I would like to ask the Minister how he thinks you can fill that gap, whether or not in consultation with the security partners or the Personal Data Authority. I ask him how to fill that hole so that we are not dealing with this legal basis and at the same time all our mayors sit in the hair with their hands and can do nothing. Mr Van Nispen says: the AIVD can do it, can't it? But apparently there's no direct line between AIVD and mayor. That's why we need the NCTV. That's what's going on. This is how we are organized in this country. And so far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u41	Mr. Van Nispen, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u42	I understand the question, because that information is important. I am concerned with the more fundamental question of who is doing what and how to avoid overlap, with a certain degree of resistance to roll. I hope that Mrs Michon will also weigh that up. Does it make sense to give the NCTV that task? And what is the distinctive nature of the intelligence and security services and the investigation services? I hope that we will then move forward in this debate and make that fundamental rethink, which I believe is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u43	The only thing I want to say to that is that the NCTV has that task. You can say they shouldn't do that job anymore. But they are fulfilling that task now, to the great satisfaction of local government. That's what I'm establishing. We have a problem with the legal basis for carrying out that task. That is obvious for that part, when it comes to the specific information about a person. I ask the Minister, nothing more and nothing less, how we fill this gap now that we have this problem. That's what I'm asking. The Minister is responsible not only for the NCTV, but also for the entire security domain. Except for the AIVD, but I'm sure he knows a lot about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u44	Last but not least, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u45	Mrs. Michon says the NCTV has that task now. Well, that's the job that came into being. We have never had a debate on this. We did not give that legal basis at the time. Yes, of course, in 2014 we were only talking about 38 measures. I just said 78; I apologize for dealing with jihadism. That's what that debate was about. But once you give the minister powers, you didn't necessarily say that it's a good idea for the NCTV to follow people. That is why I think it is necessary to really rethink that. I think it makes sense to go back to the core tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u46	Mr. Azarkan also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u47	I'm not sure what the VVD stands for against the rule of law. I notice that this is mainly about preachers. It's all about danger from the outside, a bit of gut feeling. Then they always shoot a little in the cramp and then they exaggerate. We saw that report that leaked and that really was gossip. And what happened? Mrs Michon-Derkzen's party immediately stood here and said: we demand explanations. It was just a bad investigation and we still haven't received a new report, when evil has already been done. Organisations and other people are mentioned. What we see is that citizens who are mentioned and who are suffering from NCTV are nowhere to go. Now it is possible for the CTIVD to do so with regard to complaints about the AIVD and the STIVD. Is it not wise that we not only focus on the fight against terrorism, which the Minister also writes in his piece, but that we abide by the laws, that citizens are also protected because they have the right to know what they are accused of, even if they are Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr Azarkan asks about the familiar road. My group stands for the rule of law. I have also mentioned the task of the NCTV in describing trends and phenomena and said that there is also a legal basis for this and that this should also be repaired for the part where this is not the case. No misunderstanding about that. That is what my group stands for. So I don't think you should turn NCTV into intelligence, and I hear you say that. You say: we have the AIVD and the STIVD and there is good supervision through the CTIVD and shouldn't that also apply to NCTV? No, that should not apply to NCTV, because we have two intelligence services. What is needed is an organisation, such as the NCTV, which takes the information forward to local government. There is enormous added value in this and my group is very fond of it. We have to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u49	The problem is that my colleague from the VVD contradicts himself. She does not say that the NCTV should do what they were founded for, namely analyse trends based on information and thereby inform and coordinate others. She says it has to be repaired. I'm not saying the NCTV should be a security service. I think the NCTV should confine itself to its task. When the NCTV was founded in 2004, Mr.Joustra went to bring a lot of power to him; he felt that his minister was responsible and he wanted to feed the minister as well as possible as a kind of superminister. Then it all started to grow like some kind of kingdom. Services that are a department must comply with the law. This means that we are not going to repair them and then give them more powers, but that those tasks are carried out by other services that we already have and which are therefore under authority and supervision, where permission is also regularly requested to examine information and where consent is requested when data from citizens is tapped and then stored somewhere. So what's there to fix?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u50	The NCTV was founded in 2004. Then we had a lot of debates in this Chamber about emerging jihadism. We then passed all kinds of laws that we had absolutely no beginnings of any notion of in 2004. So the world has changed and so you can see that the NCTV has also adapted to the demand that, for example, has also come from local directors. We have all adopted laws here, in which we have also given the NCTV a task. Think of taking passports and the administrative measures terrorism. So the world has changed. The message also looks again: is it true what we are doing and what should we do? For a very large part, it is true, and where that sheds, you need to settle that legal basis even better, my group says. It is very good that we have the AIVD and the STIVD as intelligence services and we need the NCTV to further that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u51	Finally and briefly, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u52	There's not much to fix. The departments are covered by the GDPR. That means the AP should be able to control that. Then there's the inspection that can do something about it, and there's not much else to fix. What the hell is Mrs. Michon-Derkzen suggesting? To make an intermediate variant of it? Isn't it embarrassing that the judge in the context of the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, for example, returns the NCTV? Isn't it embarrassing that the D.A. is complaining about stalking behavior because they're almost forced to provide, improperly, information or to use a prosecution that they themselves think isn't gonna work? Then Mrs. Michon-Derkzen must agree with me that you shouldn't want that kind of activity? You must confine yourself to the task you have, namely to coordinate on main lines, align, put other parties to work and not do things you are not on earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u53	We can differ on what the NCTV is like on Earth. I believe that they are on earth to perform a very important role in the security domain. I hope that they will continue to do so, and also with the quality we expect from all partners in the security domain. I'm definitely not going along with those near-caricatures that the D.A. is being forced into something. That was corrected by the D.A.'s office, but you say it here anyway because you like to say it all. But I'm just not going along with that at all. I do not want to go into that at all. The D.A.'s real... then you're failing them; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u54	You mean Mr. Azarkan doesn't do them well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u55	I would like to continue on this last point. I can follow Mrs Michon when she says: we need to see whether a legal basis is needed for the collection of personal data and whether that should be a task of the NCTV. We can differ on that. What really freaked me out when I read in, was the fact that such an important core unit within the NCTV simply didn't work well for a very long time. Of course, this has consequences for people and perhaps also for groups of people. Without wanting to make a caricature of it in any way, I honestly say that I am concerned about the fact that NCTV is approaching the prosecution, because that is not their job. The Minister can do that. Then there's transparency. These are things you can seriously wonder if they belong to the NCTV. I think it is in all our interests that they do what they are ordered to do and that they do not do what they are not ordered to do. I'd like to discuss this with you in a nuanced manner. Are you worried about this, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u56	Mrs. Michon, is that what you're worried about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u57	Turning to Mrs Ellemeet, I would like to say that this is also an opportunity in the debate to point out that the Minister has also done so in a very thick letter which the tasks of the NCTV are, what they do next and what the basis is. There are a lot of things they do, from crisis management to threat images of national security; cybercrime has also been added. One piece is specifically about the task they now have towards local government to provide more information about people on request in the framework of the Task Force Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing. The legal basis for this is too thin; they say so themselves, and so the Minister himself says. That is why I say: I would not remove that task, but provide a good basis. Because it is a desire of the local government to be served in it, and so far the NCTV has done so satisfactorily, according to what I always hear back from the local government. But it is clear that that legal basis must be right and that there must be no misunderstanding about it. If you want to maintain the quality of such an important service, I began by saying that it is not just about the content of the information, but also about how it is handled. That is why we have the debate tonight. I read the Minister's letter in such a way that he's going to do the same. I shall urge him to do so in all possible ways, because there must not be a whiff of slowness or 'we're just messing around a little' here, precisely because it is such an important task. It is an important service with an important task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u58	Mrs Ellemeet, for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u59	I can fully follow you when it comes to the legal basis for the collection of personal data. But my question was not about that, but about the fact that, at least if we follow the documents of NRC, there has been a very important unit within the NCTV for a very long time that has simply not worked well enough. People from that unit say, "If I do a new analysis, I'll bring in the old one." They say that people work very soloist and that there are few people who are powerful in the Arabic language, for example. Those are all pretty disturbing signals. Hopefully it will be better now; I will ask the Minister what the current state of affairs is. But I don't think this is a good thing, any more than it is to justify the fact that people from NCTV are approaching the State's Attorney's Office, which is not their job. It is the duty of the Minister, if he wishes to do so exceptionally, to put pressure on them to prosecute someone. That's just not the job of NCTV. I ask Mrs Michon if she thinks that should be the job. If she doesn't, can't she just say, "guys, we shouldn't do that anymore?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u60	In the direction of Mrs Ellemeet, I say that I have read all those articles with the... I do not want to change that, but I do call it some kind of internal suffering within the NCTV. As a member of the House of Representatives, I do not feel called for all kinds of internal issues there... I am not talking about the conversation with the Public Prosecutor, of which the Public Prosecutor himself has also distanced himself. But who has been internally or not right and who has punched his nose at the NCTV, the boss? Look, I don't think that's my job as a public representative. I address this minister to the outcome of the NCTV and the way the NCTV works. I do not think it is my job to give an opinion here on internal working relations within the NCTV. I don't appreciate it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u61	Mrs Ellemeet, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u62	I'm not interested in working relationships. I am concerned about those methods, which lead to results. We are all getting signals that there are concerns about these practices. That is precisely what Mrs Michon says: that is what I am talking about; that is what I am worried about. I believe that we should also have the open debate on this and ask the Minister whether the procedure is now in order. I also believe that the signals that are actually sent by the State's Attorney's Office should be seen as not wanting to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u63	Mrs Ellemeet continues to repeat "signals OM." I'll keep repeating that the D.A. has distanced themselves from these allegations to the D.A.'s office. Then we'll keep talking a little bit in a circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u64	Mr. Wassenberg, your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u65	Mrs Michon says that we need to strengthen the legal basis of the NCTV and that the NCTV is now doing all kinds of things that are not legally based. But that legal basis is right. It's good, but the NCTV doesn't act like it, so it's actually illegal. Then you can say "we're going to legalize what's illegal," which is something other than strengthening the legal base. You can also say: NCTV, stick to your book, do what you can and leave what you can't do. With fake accounts tracking people, with fake accounts trying to infiltrate into groups to get information that way: it just shouldn't. Does Mrs. Michon mean that you should legalize that kind of illegal business afterwards? I think that's what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u66	My group believes, as I read in the Minister's letter, that NCTV has obvious added value in a number of tasks. This has traditionally been the creation of a threat picture and the identification of trends, analyses and phenomena in the field of terrorism and national security. Compared to 2004, the world now looks very different in 2021. The needs are also very different. They are now receiving more questions from local government, such as the example I used with Mr Van Nispen: what to do when Mr X or Y comes here to preach? So you can see that the NCTV is fulfilling that task and that it is going to abrade the legal basis. Towards Mr Van Wassenberg, I say that I believe that NCTV should do its job, namely to ensure national security and counter-terrorism, together with all the partners with which they do so. In what they do, the legal basis must be undisputed. That is why I think that what you can question is the Minister's immediate solution. That is how I read his letter, and I will encourage him to do so in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u67	Mr. Wassenberg, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u68	First of all, I say to Mrs Michon that my name is 'Wassenberg' and not 'Van Wassenberg'. Well, that's not what you're supposed to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u69	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u70	Actually, we all agree. The Minister said it, you said it: we now have two intelligence services and we do not need a third. I also consider the tasks of the NCTV to be very important. I also think the NCTV should do its job well. But I say that the legal framework has been good. Now you see that the NCTV hasn't acted on it for seven years since 2014. Then you can't say: then we're just gonna legalize all that? If you allow NCTV to do all this, you can keep saying: we have two intelligence services, the AIVD and the STUD, and that's it. But in the meantime, you're gonna sneak up on a third secret service, the NCTV. You don't call it that, but the moment you expand that legal framework, that legal base, you actually create a third intelligence service. I don't think that's what the Party wants for the Animals, but if it's okay, it's not what the VVD wants and what the government wants or doesn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u71	That's right. My group does not want to make a third intelligence service. I want an NCTV that can do its job and has an undisputed legal basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u72	Finally, Mr President. But then you're not gonna say, "We're gonna change the legal basis for NCTV so that we're about to create a third intelligence service"? Because that is what it actually comes down to. That is what we are going to do now, if we are going to legalize the current way of working and if we are going to make what was previously illegal and should remain illegal. Then we're setting up a third intelligence agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u73	I think I see the tasks of NCTV differently from Mr Wassenberg's apology for the previous slip. Their legal framework could get past the Chamber here. We can judge that with each other. If we think that goes too far, we will have another debate on this. So I'm not so nervous about that myself. But again, it's coming through here anyway, because it's up to us. So then we come back to talk to each other to see if that doesn't go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u74	Mrs. Van der Werf also has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u75	I would like to refer to an answer that Mrs Michon just gave to Mr Ellemeet. I thought that was a remarkable answer. Mrs Michon said that she was not so concerned about the internal problems on the workplace at the NCTV. Now D66 is concerned about that, and so does the Minister, as we read in his letter of 23 April. It says: "The NCTV recognizes and recognises these tensions in the workplace." Why don't you think that's so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u76	Because I find it difficult to judge from this distance a work organisation in which we do not work ourselves. I find that complicated and even a little uncomfortable. So I'll hold the NCTV responsible for the task he has, and he'll have to do it right. At the end of the day, we have the debate with the Minister on whether we think he is good at addressing the NCTV or keeping it sharp. That's how I see my role. You may think otherwise, I say to Mrs Van der Werf, President, but that is how I see it. I find it uncomfortable and I simply have too little knowledge of it to find anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u77	Mrs. Van der Werf, in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u78	Of course, it's not nothing NRC has revealed about all of that. I am also shocked by what remains undisputed. You started your speech with the safety of the Netherlands, which you say is so important. Then there is a very important organization that has to work on it on the work floor, and then you look away. I thought that was remarkable. I didn't expect that from the VVD. I would like to know whether you are maintaining that line with other security organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u79	If you ask me if I intend not to deal with internal organizations, the answer is yes. If you ask me how I judge these stories from a distance, which I also read in newspaper articles, then you might as well think: what good is that there is a lot of contradiction in the organisation and that not everyone goes after the boss and does what he says, but strongly opposes them. You can also say that it is on such an important subject that things are sometimes tough, because it is about something. So that makes, I say to Mrs Van der Werf, that I find it complicated to give an opinion on this. Because for the same money you can say: good that there is contradiction, it can also sometimes sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u80	Mrs. Van der Werf, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u81	For the sake of clarity, I am not asking for this to be assessed in the workplace, but I am asking because we have been able to read that it has regularly led to the weakening of an opinion, the ignoring of certain information or the ending of a report in a drawer. If you say 'I think safety is so very important'.... and I share that with you..................................................................................................................................................... I mean that we offer a safe working environment to those colleagues who dare to contradict a director, sg or dg, I'm just saying what. Then it is also your role, I think, that you dare to be critical of it and not say: yes, but I do not really appreciate what happened, because I only read about it in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u82	For my group, it is a very good thing that NCTV can independently present the threat picture, for example. In this sense, we can appeal to this minister to the functioning of the NCTV as an organisation. Mrs Van der Werf and I agree on that. The goal is that you have the best information needed to make this country safe. We agree on that. At least that's how I know you. There is no misunderstanding about that, but I would like to address this Minister to the functioning of the NCTV. The NCTV, at least as far as the threat is concerned, does not have that independent position for nothing to bring it out of the Minister's hands. I think that's a great deal of good. He has an independent position, but we do have a minister here with whom we will discuss the functioning of the NCTV. That is what we are doing tonight, and I think that is very good and very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u83	I should like to give Mrs Michon the opportunity to conclude her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u84	I asked you my questions. I assume that the Minister for National Security and Counter-Terrorism is as good as my group and that he will ensure that these legislative gaps are completed as quickly as possible. I would ask him to inform us of the state of play on this matter. How complicated is this and when will we see the legal basis we need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u85	Thank you, Mrs Michon. Then we will clean the chair and then Mrs Van der Werf will speak on behalf of D66. I would remind everyone that we are speaking through the President in the debate. When someone says "you," I feel very moved. So try to talk about "sir," "ma'am" and "excellency the minister," even in your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u86	Mr. Chairman. Another government agency that violates the law, threat advice that ends up in a drawer and interferes with a criminal investigation. It all came along in the revelations the NRC did about the NCTV. Two months later, much remains unclear. Today I would like clarification from the Minister on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the key question. Did the NCTV break the law? If so, did the Minister inform the people who have wrongly been affected by this violation of the law, as he promised me during Question Time in April and, more importantly, as required by the law? The fact that the Minister wants to create a legal basis for activities which the NCTV has been carrying out for years suggests that the law has indeed been broken first. The law is being broken, so we're gonna change the law. That's not how it works in a rule of law. The government follows the law, not the other way around. Moreover, like the rest of the cabinet, this minister resigned months ago. Does the Minister consider it appropriate, given his missionary status, to work on new powers for the NCTV now? That brings me to a second concern: supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u87	But before you talk about it, Mrs. Michon has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u88	I would like to ask Mrs van der Werf what law she thinks the minister or NCTV has broken. She's asking the minister if the NCTV broke the law. Then I'd like to ask her, what law do you think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u89	A number of examples have been published in the newspaper dealing with the sharing of personal data. An example came from 2018, of someone who was afterwards unsubstantiated at home, wrongly. What Mrs. Michon is referring to is what law has been broken. The NCTV has taken up work which, as far as I know, belongs only to the intelligence services and which the NCTV should never have been responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u90	Mrs. Michon, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u91	What exactly is the task of the NCTV? We need to get exactly where they're going and what they're doing within their legal framework. We have received a letter of twelve pages, full of tasks and foundations. Where, according to Mrs Van der Werf, the problem is specific, I ask her through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u92	Mrs. Michon knew that very well just now. Then she gave the example of the municipalities and the mayors. The point is that, at times when information is shared, the NCTV is out of line and shares a level of information or specific information with which it should not have done so. I think it is quite right that we in the Chamber should call the Minister to account for this. I think that's why Mrs Michon just did it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u93	Mrs. Michon, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u94	I do want to separate that for a while, because there are all kinds of tasks of the NCTV and there are all kinds of different legal bases underneath it. One is the Police Data Act, another is the anti-terrorism administrative measures. Where it is sanding now is the example I did just give: the information given at the request of local drivers. That's part of the NCTV's tasks, but that's a small part of all the tasks the NCTV does. I hope Mrs Van der Werf agrees with me. If Mrs Van der Werf agrees with me, I ask her through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u95	It's part of what's not going well right now. However, I would like to make it clear that I did not come to this debate just to talk about that particular point. I also came to this debate because I was shocked by the stories that apparently took place in the workplace. That is why I would also like to ask the Minister whether this is still going on. And I am also shocked by the reaction that came from a part of this Chamber when we talked about this at Question Time, namely: oh, okay, the law has been broken; fine, then we are going to make a law for it. Mr President, my answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u96	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u97	That brings me to my second concern: supervision. I am grateful for the strong investigative journalism that brought these problems to light. But, of course, we should not be dependent on a newspaper in order to be able to carry out our controlling task as a Chamber. I wonder why the Minister himself did not call the bell earlier, whether he was aware of the problems at NCTV and, if so, why the Chamber was not first informed. Additional powers do not go without supervision. In his letter, the Minister refers to the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the JenV Inspection, but the inspection never looked at the performance of the task and the Dutch Data Protection Authority is only about personal data. The problems are wider. Moreover, the AP does not, of course, have access to state secret information. Before we talk about new powers, I would like to hear from the Minister how he will better ensure that the current tasks are monitored. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in this debate, I do not want to leave it undisputed that many staff at the NCTV are working day in and day out to keep the Netherlands safe. My questions are therefore not intended to cripple them, quite the contrary. I think it is important that all opinions within the NCTV are heard. It should not then be the case that important opinions remain in a drawer because of political sensitivities or tunnel vision of top officials. Yet it seems to have happened several times. Analysts who warned against the extreme right weren't taken seriously for a long time. Advice to bring children back from Syria was weakened, because Rutte had already said: IS'ers should die in the desert. Let me say first of all that I do not want to give that explanation to the content of these opinions. We'll leave that to the experts. But what I am concerned about is that the advice of those experts does not always seem to reach the higher regions. In the series of revelations of the NRC we always read the same names that are behind them. They have now left, but the question is whether the problems have been solved. Finally, how does the Minister ensure that sound advice on national security, which we consider so important, is always included in the threat analyses, even if there is a new boss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u98	Thank you, Mrs Van der Werf. Then it is up to Mrs Kathmann, who speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. I think that safety in the broadest sense of the word is one of the most important prerequisites for living together. I think that is why on evenings like tonight we cannot often say that it is so nice that the NCTV is there, but we are not talking today about what is going well there, although I would welcome it if we could talk more about what is going well here. But unfortunately, this is not the case tonight, because tonight we are talking about the increasing tension between securing our national security on the one hand and constantly restricting our freedom and democratic rule of law on the other. In fact, we are even more specific about the broken data and algorithm society, about which we have simply made too few agreements with each other and therefore as a Chamber we also have too little insight into what is happening inside our government. We see that this does not mean that the law is being broken in sporadically, but systematically. Mr Azarkan already mentioned it in his speech: we are not here for the first time, we are here for the thirtieth time. Mr. Chairman. What the two letters from the Minister who are under this debate today prove above all... and I say that with respect for the Minister, for the appropriate action and for the quick letters. The VVD already indicated: they are thick packages. It's getting worked out. We were able to invest this debate with each other very quickly. For that reason nothing but praise, but it always turns out that we do not speak each other's language and that at least we do not go back to the basics well enough. We are in fact constantly updating the rules of the game of which we do not even know the basic rules well or have stuck together. In the last two months we have been standing here twice to talk specifically about the actions of the NCTV. If it's the PvdA's fault, three times is the charm. We are not going home today until we have made clear agreements, because the path the Minister wants to take is not the right one. This path assumes that it is essential for our national security that NCTV be given a task package that was previously reserved for the security services alone. In my opinion, we have not yet decided at all that this is necessary and why it would be necessary. What is even worse is that I do not think we have the same definition for the same concepts either. We don't really know if we agree on what we're spying on, what we're tracking, what we're tracking and what we're analyzing civilians. What if phenomenon analyses are actually bundling of analyses of individuals or if the individual himself is the phenomenon? We have simply not given it enough thought, and that is incredibly important if we want to make good regulation and have a clear and transparent set of tasks for this NCTV. So as far as I'm concerned, these letters are a little too fast right now. That is why there are a number of questions first. The minister says the NCTV doesn't collect personal data. The NRC article says so. I think that has already been said by more people and has been asked who is right. According to NRC's article, online NCTV agents start monitoring politicians and activists. Is that correct and, if so, how does that rhyme with the fact that there is no personal search? So this is not the answer to that phenomenon analysis. The NRC article indicates that NCTV officials make it impossible to check exactly what they are doing. Why do they delete information? Can we really trust that the Minister has now been accurately informed? The NCTV has stopped using social media accounts, according to the Minister. Not because it was undesirable, but because there is now a system that can do it for them. Does the Minister not understand why it is undesirable that the NCTV collects information and that it is not about how? I have already asked for the reasons why the NCTV should be extended. To this day, I didn't get it. Can the Minister provide that support? Can the Minister specifically designate the tasks for which there is currently no basis in the law and indicate why our security services cannot carry out these tasks? Can the Minister then indicate how, should it be desirable to extend the scope of the tasks, the monitoring of the NCTV will be extended? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u100	Thank you, Mrs Kathmann. I call Mr Van der Staaij, who is speaking on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SGP believes that the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator, the NCTV, is doing extremely important work. We're grateful for that, if you look at what happened last year. Take just what we were sent back in mid-April: the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands, one in a series. It is incredibly important that we have such a service, which rakes together information, which is able to identify the risks to our security, which also identifies what is needed and gives advice on strengthening security. I also remember the debate or the time when the NCTV was set up or its predecessor. That was after the Madrid attacks in 2004, killing 191 people. Then the sense of urgency was widely shared: are we alert enough, have we collected all the information properly or is it all hidden in different services? At the same time, it has not been chosen to grant all kinds of special powers or to enforce all kinds of laws. This was also called for in the debate at the time: should there not be all kinds of powers? Just because there was no need for a new intelligence service has been said: take it easy when it comes to all kinds of special laws. When it comes to things you do on the basis of public sources, we should not go to special foundations at all. Before you know it, you'll be creating some kind of intelligence agency again. My group understood and followed that consideration. At the same time, of course, we see on the one hand that the tasks of the NCTV have been extended, but on the other hand, I think that is what today's debate is about and what was the eight-ground of and an important element in the coverage was said: wait a minute, actually, because of the stricter rules on privacy that you are processing special personal data much earlier than in the past, and that therefore requires an explicit basis. It is vulnerable to say: yes, but we are actually just trying to store things on our disks from the newspapers just to be able to tell these phenomena well for the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands. My faction therefore understands that it is said: then you can set up an entire legal tree of exactly how questionable it is. But as critical as you are about that, I think we agree that at least in the present time and with the current state of legislation, it is vulnerable and need strengthening and that you need an explicit basis for using public sources and recording certain data. So it's a good thing that law comes along. I have only one question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u102	Mr Van Nispen also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u103	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I understand what Mr Van der Staaij is saying. It is true, of course, that the advent of the GDPR has placed cases under a magnifying glass once again. There is therefore a need to look at laws on more fronts to see whether they still comply and whether the GDPR is not too strict for the work that is being done. That's definitely a factor. But it is also a factor that, in my opinion, Mr Van der Staaij rightly recalled that 2004 debate and the creation of the NCTb at the time. In 2014, the NCTV was given the tasks that were part of the integrated approach to jihadism, as they became implementing that policy. In 2017, there were laws giving the Minister the power to impose reporting obligations and administrative measures against terrorism. In this way, the role of NCTV has changed in substance, without us having had the debate here in the Chamber as to whether the legal basis is appropriate. So I would just like to ask: is it not only the GDPR's arrival, but it is also other political choices and changes to laws and measures that have led to this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u104	I agree that it is fine and right to look at it too, which is why the project is also broader than the point I mentioned, but it has been a great deal about following citizens in terms of how, in the light of the expansion of tasks, you can even better anchor and strengthen those tasks and foundations. All kinds of questions have been asked about it. I'm listening to that with interest. But at least in my preparation I have seen the following questions as key issues. Are all civilians being followed? What's the deal with that, exactly? Can we do all that? It is a good thing that it also raises broader and other questions, such as whether the legislation is sufficiently robust to provide a good basis for the current tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u105	Mr. Van Nispen, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u106	I wonder whether Mr Van der Staaij also thinks that the question of whether we need another intelligence service is justified. So it is not just a question of establishing a basis for what NCTV has been doing today, but also whether there is a sufficient distinction between the investigation services and the intelligence and security services. Because I think it is important to have the debate on this too. I am therefore curious about the SGP's view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u107	I have also been thinking from the perspective of the citizens. When it comes to powers that also violate citizens' privacy, you are talking about matters such as tapping, tracking, deploying agents, or whatever else, then it is extremely important that you really talk about the tasks of intelligence services with special powers that are granted. As far as I can see and have heard, the discussion is not now about the need to extend such special powers to NCTV. I support that line. We do not need that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u108	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u109	The question I have left is: to what extent does legislation take sufficient account of rapidly changing technology? Has it been formulated sufficiently independently of technology? A second question is: to what extent does a gap arise? Could it therefore be a risk to safety that, throughout the discussion, even pending the full examination of the law which may well take some time, there would also be a lack of certain things that we say: is that wise? So are we not at risk, I'm just saying, that we're too careful now and we're creating a safety hole? Mr. Chairman. My last question is wider than the NCTV. Because the GDPR, the European General Data Protection Regulation, imposes higher requirements, namely an explicit legal basis for processing personal data. Does this also apply to officials other than NCTV? For example, the National Anti-Semitism Coordinator, which entered into force on 1 April 2021. Can the same discussion arise about this, that it is said: wait a minute, that they sometimes write a name somewhere in the context of phenomenon analysis; is that therefore not a processing of personal data? So would the Minister also like to address the issue of whether this is being discussed by more officials and, if so, to include it in the legislation that comes with it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mrs Ellemeet is going to speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, we discussed a new governance culture in detail here. Before you know it, that was a nice chat for the stage and we go back to the order of the day, but I think it's our job to make sure that we also apply it in our work. For me, that also really applies to this debate, because it is about openly discussing matters with each other. The goal is not to punish each other, but to try to solve problems. So it's not a question of cleaning up your street or punishing each other, but of talking openly about things that don't go well. Honesty requires me to say that, when I was preparing for this debate, I was very concerned and not at all reassured about the functioning of the NCTV. In my opinion, the Minister also gives too light notice of the functioning of the NCTV in his letters. From all the pieces and certainly also from the articles of NRC a disturbing picture of the NCTV arises. I am talking, among other things, about the functioning of the Nuclear Analysis Unit. I was talking about it in an interrupting debate. I am not concerned about assessing the functioning of all the departments of all the executive organisations. The point is that this department has a huge impact on society, on people's lives, on the lives of groups of people. This is about policy, how it is implemented and the impact on society. That is why I think it is our job to ask critical questions about this. Not only the behavior of individuals within that unit raises questions, but also the fact that it took so long to intervene. I also have questions about the method of working. I would like a response from the Minister on all of the following points. How long has that department, that unit, been dysfunctional and where is the unit now? I also read that there is a lot of room for one person to explain. There is considerable dependence on individual employees. The number of people who speak Arabic, for example, was very limited; I mentioned it. I don't know if that's still true, but of course you need checks-and-balances in one of those wards. Apparently it was not unusual to fall back on an old analysis when making an analysis and adjust it. I also understood that extreme right-wing threats were underestimated, while for salafism the opposite was the case. In January 2020, the judge tapped NCTV in the Haga Lyceum case, partly because one of the profiles had insufficient factual evidence. In short, the quality of the work of that unit was below par. This has a direct impact on people and groups of people, as I said. I would very much like an extensive and point-by-point response from the Minister to these questions. I would also like to ask him if an independent investigation would not be appropriate. Mr. Chairman. There was not only tension within this unit of NCTV, but also between the unit and the Ministry of Social Affairs. This has been the case since 2017, as we have read. Can the Minister state what is going on with the cooperation between the NCTV and this department? Has there been any tension with other departments? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. I also have questions about the relationship between the NCTV and the D.A. Does the Minister acknowledge that the prosecution has appealed to NCTV for interference and that these interferences are described as undesirable by the national court? And does the Minister acknowledge that in 2019 the NCTV urged the prosecution of the then director of the Haga Lyceum and that this informal pressure was even continued after the prosecution indicated that there was insufficient grounds for prosecution? And does the Minister acknowledge that the NCTV was out of his jurisdiction? I would also like to ask him if there has been any such pressure towards the D.A.'s office. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. We have also been able to read that in practice the Justice and Security Inspectorate does not supervise the NCTV and that supervision by the Personal Data Authority does not cover the entire area of activity. Mrs. Van der Werff said it, too. How does the Minister intend to tighten that surveillance? Finally, I have a question about extending the tasks and looking for a legal basis for this extension of tasks. That point has already been raised on many occasions. I feel that we are being messed up somewhere and that we really need to have a fundamental debate with each other on what tasks are and are not part of the NCTV. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u112	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Then it is JA21's turn by Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u113	Thank you, Mr President. In my view, we are discussing an important sensitive issue: the pursuit of the organization that is to protect us from terror for years of jihadist terrorism in Europe. Unfortunately, we have seen two more examples of this last year, in Vienna and in Nice. It is therefore a difficult task, which also involves a heavy responsibility. The effectiveness of the NCTV depends to a large extent on the trust that people in society have in the organisation. The messages that have been circulating over the last few weeks and have been coming out over the last few months are adversely affecting that confidence. I think the NCTV can charge itself for that. Because whatever you think of the law, you have to abide by the law, including the NCTV. There can be no doubt that there is uncertainty about the legal basis of the work. It is therefore very important and necessary to strengthen and explain the legal framework for the processing of personal data, which are thus used. From the reports we read, the picture also emerges that the task concept regarding monitoring has rather faded over the last few years. Everyone agrees on the importance of combating terrorism, but what about following Geert Wilders, Thierry Baudet, Sylvana Simons or residents who oppose wind turbines? Of course, they're not terrorists. I believe that the monitoring of democratically elected politicians, opinion-makers and involved citizens is misplaced. It gives the people concerned an unjustified stigma and it distracts from what NCTV should be doing: to protect us from terror. Can the Minister respond to this? Does he agree with me that the NCTV should return to its core? I believe that Mr Van Nispen said almost the same thing. I would like to have a reaction to this in this context too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u114	Before you continue, Mrs. Kuik has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u115	As a result of the letters, I had the feeling that these people are being looked at precisely to protect them, given what is happening around them. If that were the case, wouldn't it be very good for the service to do so? Because that is also one of his tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u116	Yeah, guarding and securing is one of the main tasks. I couldn't agree more. Mr. Chairman. What does not help in fighting jihadism is funding theatre performances and campaigns, we think. This weekend we read in NRC that NCTV was secretly working on a counter campaign between 2015 and 2017 to keep Islamic youth away from ISIS with positive messages. This, on the advice of the disputed Irish advisor David Kenning, is known for his view that Muslim extremistism has little to do with Islam. I believe that Mr Markuszower also mentioned him. Those plans ended in 2017, after a similar campaign had been called into question in Amsterdam. The former ministers Blok and Asscher, to whom the plans were explained at the time by the NCTV, seem to have no active reminder of this, as I read in NRC. My question to the Minister is this: should it not be so difficult to find out whether these two outgoing ministers reacted enthusiastically or negatively at the time? Can you respond to that? Beaching that campaign did not mean the end of NCTV as a film and theatre producer. For example, the NCTV releases 1 million euros annually for plays such as "Fok me Hokje" from NRC "From stutterer to word artist," about a Moroccan doctor telling his life story, "Fok me Hokje," about young people who write stories about gender, and "Hipster/Muslim," where visitors have to guess whether a beard is a Muslim or a hipster beard. Yeah, I'm not making it up, but it's written down. So the question is: if this is true, does the Minister agree that all this has little to do with combating terrorism and that this money could have been spent a lot better? I'd like a reaction to that, too. Mr President, that was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then we have arrived at Volt's contribution. I invite Mrs Koekkoek to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u118	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the working methods of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, the NCTV. But we are actually talking about a much bigger issue, namely: what is security? I remember going to school every day in 2004, after the Madrid attacks. As soon as I got in, I looked at what exits I could use if a terrorist attack took place. At this time, the NCTV was founded. But times have changed. The unprecedented technological progress has not only brought about a change in the threats, but also the need for our safety authorities to find new ways of dealing with them. This brings with it new challenges. For example, we have seen the NCTV collect information from sources that many people would not see as public. Security seems to be at odds with the right to privacy and the right to freedom of expression. The NCTV aims to increase security, but citizens feel unsafe on the internet due to uncontrolled monitoring. Better privacy and more security sometimes seems to be a contradiction, but they are values that go hand in hand. The most important question in this debate is therefore: how do we organise our safety authorities so that they can do their work as effectively as possible? And how do we do that without people feeling unsafe by those agencies that have to protect them? We are talking here about improving the legal basis of the NCTV. But the key question is: does this have added value? Should we not first ask what role the NCTV should play? And how do we guard the border between the NCTV and the intelligence and security services? Mr. Chairman. How are we going to ensure that the regulator, currently the Personal Data Authority, has sufficient resources and technical knowledge to control the work of the NCTV? And can the Personal Data Authority actually handle that? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. It is also important to consider how we involve citizens in this process. For example, we want citizens to understand more about what happens to their data. That is why I ask the Minister to investigate possibilities for citizens to ask for information about how their data is processed and how their data is used. Mr. Chairman. We need experts who can detect, identify, prevent and identify threats as objectively as possible. So we do not want to limit experts, but we do want to be able to control them and adjust them where necessary. At the same time, security is subjective. Citizens must also feel that they are safe. What do people experience as the greatest threat and how do we increase that sense of security? And do we still feel safe when we are controlled ourselves? That is why we need more transparency about the working methods of the NCTV and also about how this service handles our data. That is why it is time for us to involve citizens more ourselves in this process, with which we will redesign the safety authorities. Could the NCTV not, for example, play a coordinating role as a public organisation in increasing the democratic legitimacy of security authorities, for example by engaging in the public debate on security itself? Let us restore confidence in our safety authorities by ensuring openness and better supervision. This is how we ensure that citizens are safe and feel safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u119	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. The next item is Mrs Simons's report on BET1 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was weird waking up a few months ago, when we read in the NRC that our campaign leader on social media was followed by NCTV. Charlie, that's his name. A nice one... what am I saying? A very handsome young man from the early 30s, with a background in communication and until then a volunteer who in his spare time occupied himself with our social media and occasionally posted a tweet about RuPaul's Drag Race. He is certainly not a terrorist, let alone a threat to national security, but a campaign leader who has made our way to the Chamber a success. I'm grateful to him every day. In what way did the NCTV see the reason to start monitoring it, even without a legal basis? Because the NCTV doesn't have the authority to monitor people with fake accounts. This organization has gone very far beyond its control. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is normal for political parties to be monitored by NCTV and what makes a political party such a risk to national security that it should be followed. Is it democratically justified to monitor a political party? Which parties are concerned and for what purpose? Is it legal? If so, can the Minister refer to the legal basis for this monitoring power? It's been asked a few times. And at what point does the NCTV conclude that a party is antidemocratic, anti-legal and thus a danger to Dutch democracy? Speaking of going overboard, we'll read more about that in the NRC. That is my compliments for that, and it is now quite a file of missteps from this organization. We read about posting messages to municipalities and foreign security services about individuals, about creating profiles about individuals, about a secret mode on computers, about simply processing special personal data and about the lack of rules on important analysis reports or about proper control of data processing. I have a billion questions about this, but given the short speaking time for this far too important debate, I will submit them in writing at the end. I can't completely escape the impression that acting off-the-book is part of the NCTV or is at least in a context of a broader problem with that organization, because how do people seem to work that I quote an employee in the NRC "seeing a salafist behind each tree and expressing their opinions on specifically one religious movement"? And that while I'm myself... that's not in my line. I'll keep that to myself. I'm gonna let that go. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. How is it that there are many examples in which biased and incorrect conclusions have harmed precisely Muslims and Muslim organisations, whereas they are Muslims and Muslim organisations who have been calling for years about their own security following hundreds of attacks on mosques in recent years? I fear that the answer to that question reveals an institutional racism problem. I'd like to ask the Minister if he shares that insight with me. Has he by any chance thought about how this might have to be combated? I would very much like to hear the Minister's comments. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the NCTV's working methods are yet another dossier that we have not yet finished talking about, at least not when it comes to BET1. Institutional racism, a serious failure in recognizing real threats to national security, such as the extreme right, and completely outside the legal framework: it is not a problem that we can resolve with one debate here today. Let me then express the hope that today is the beginning of another trend: to call the animal by the name and to say goodbye to what has to be said goodbye to. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u121	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I invite Mrs Bikker to speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Terrorist threats, extremism and polarisation threaten our rule of law, our free society and the security of Dutch people. On many fronts, the government is therefore active to protect the Netherlands, with intelligence work, through the criminal justice chain and also administratively. Because a breeding ground for precisely these things you want to discover and disturb in time. For the Christian Union Group, the work of NCTV is essential. I would like to thank the staff of the NCTV, who sometimes work for this day and night. Through analysis and coordination, the NCTV is the spider in the web in the fight against terrorism and to protect our security. The Christian Union believes that NCTV should be able to carry out this mission properly and properly. And given the nature of the NCTV as coordinator, that should be based on public access and, of course, on a good legal basis. There's a tension there that's been exposed by the coverage of NRC. Personal data were processed for the identification and analysis of security risks without an adequate legal framework. I have a number of questions for the Minister. When did the NCTV start the actions that have now been stopped because there is no legal basis for them? Can the Minister give the context in which this started? And what does it mean whether or not to temporarily stop for the safety of today? Is it true that since the introduction of the GDPR in May 2018, the NCTV has acted in violation of the law, but that this has only recently come to light? And why didn't this come out in the implementation of the GDPR? Did the Personal Data Authority have a keen interest in ensuring this? If so, when did this supervision take shape and what form? How limited was that? What commitment has the Dutch Data Protection Authority made to make this right? Does the AP have access to the systems used? And besides, what role is there now for the inspection? Are there any reports of that? Supervision is also important for the Christian Union now that a legal framework is being adopted. How does supervision take shape? Will there be regular monitoring of AP and inspection? And how will that be made public? Mr. Chairman. Counterfeiting in the form of supervision is important not only to check sec against the legality of the NCTV's actions, but also to reflect critically on the wider location of the NCTV in the security chain, so that ministry, services, criminal justice chain and NCTV operate all roles. How is that guaranteed? Who is watching and what role does this Chamber see for itself? Doesn't that fit us in with a shoe of reflection now that we all know so well what is going on, but perhaps we have just spoken too little about it earlier? Mr. Chairman. My group considers it logical that municipalities struggling with a security question should seek advice. The NCTV played a role in this because of the lack of a legal basis. Is it true that this has completely stopped? And how many studies that normally take place can't take place now? Is there any insight into the risks involved? Where can municipalities currently go when they are faced with a concrete dilemma surrounding the security in their municipality for which the NCTV was normally consulted? Is this gonna be solved with the new law that's in the making? Or is there a reflection here in its place on whether the NCTV in its role as coordinator should still do this or whether it should be invested in another place, for example in the local triangle? I would like the Minister, when the bill comes and a choice is made, to go into that further, if he is not able to do so here tonight. Can the cabinet also explain why it has not opted for a shorter or shorter consultation phase on the legislative proposal? Mr President, I will conclude. I referred to the NCTV and its important task and also to the role stability that is important, especially when it comes to coordination. That also requires some of the ministries, of the criminal justice chain and of this Chamber. Can the Minister give explicit consideration to this in the forthcoming legislative process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u123	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Unfortunately, Mrs Van der Plas had to sign out tonight. That means we're ready for the CDA's contribution. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There have been many speakers. The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator: we are always talking about the abbreviation NCTV, but of course we are talking about a lot of people who contribute to keeping our Netherlands safe. The role of the NCTV is to advise, coordinate and analyse. A bit of an image has emerged as if it's an APB, but it's not. It's a very special organization, though. The point here is, above all, that analysis aspect. The main question is actually quite simple: is there sufficient basis for analysing phenomena by using public sources? That is the question I am asking the Minister. The Minister states in the letter that he is awaiting legislation and says that the processing of personal data will be handled with caution. How exactly am I supposed to read that? Is there any stopping or continuing processing now? I am curious to see what the AP has said on this particular point. The technical briefing also showed that there are possibilities for improvements in the area of supervision. The AP would also have been consulted. How does the Minister keep us informed on this point? Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, it is clear: the legal basis must simply be in order, hence my questions to the Minister. I also ask how we can strengthen the legal basis as soon as possible if it is insufficient, so that NCTV can continue its good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. We shall then be ready for the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term. That is Mr Van Meijeren on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u126	Thank you, Madam President. If I have understood all the previous speakers correctly, I think we are all in agreement on one thing at least today, and that is that the NCTV is not working properly at the moment. This is very worrying, because we are talking here about the organisation responsible in the Netherlands for coordination in the fight against terrorism and in other areas of our national security. Many consider NCTV to be some kind of intelligence service, but it is in fact nothing more and nothing less than a department within the Ministry of Justice and Security, which operates under the direct responsibility and direction of the Minister. A few months ago it appeared that the NCTV itself would like to play secret agent. Then NRC's research showed that there are so-called virtual agents out there at NCTV spying on social media with fake accounts. We are talking not only about citizens who are actually a threat to our security, but also about citizens who are merely a threat to incumbent power. These include group chairmen of democratically elected political parties here in this Parliament and leaders of action groups who want to achieve their goals through democratic and peaceful means. And in the meantime, the Minister has acknowledged that these espionage practices are illegal. The fake accounts are canceled. But the cause of these problems is much deeper. Because NRC's research shows that the situation at the workplace at NCTV is rotten. Employees talking about intimidation and an unsafe working environment. The leadership would go blind on the views of a small group of influential analysts. There's no room for discussion. And it rains complaints about the lack of the influential Threat images that the NCTV distributes every so often. And one of those influential analysts is the Deputy Head of the Analysis Department, Mrs. Sterckenburg. Last month she spit her gall in the Reformatorisch Dagblad, expressing her concerns about the rise of the extreme right. But what does Mrs Sterckenburg mean by "extreme right"? Well, I quote: "Persons who strive for cultural uniformity. They find each other in particular in the pursuit of traditional male-female relations, having many children and more money for defence." How does the Minister assess that his own officials have such bizarre ideas about what is the real threat to our security here in the Netherlands? In one of the latest Threat images, a publishing house of books, namely De Blauwe Tiger, is associated with terrorism. FVD asked questions about this in Parliament; that was my group colleague Mr Van Houwelingen. In response, the Minister stated that De Blauwe Tiger opposed the administrative elite, and that this could lead to sensitivity to conspiracy thinking. But what does the Minister really mean by "conspiracy"? Is anyone who thinks differently about certain things than the cabinet might want, suddenly a potential danger to our national security? We are entering a very slippery and dangerous path here. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to these practices and consider a motion aimed at completely sanitizing the NCTV and putting it at a distance from politics, because it cannot and must not be the case that a section of the Ministry, which the Minister is in charge of, is being used to monitor and label political opponents and peaceful action groups as extremists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u127	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. An interruption by Mrs. Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u128	An interesting point from Mr. Van Meijeren. You're saying you're gonna put that NCTV away and you're gonna put that service all the way out of politics. Who would Mr Van Meijeren then like to speak next time if he still has doubts about the scope of the task or the performance of the tasks of the same service?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u129	Well, I have indicated, unlike Mrs Michon, that I am considering a motion to place NCTV at a slightly greater distance from politics. I'm not saying "to be completely removed" from politics. There are many organisations in the Netherlands that do not operate under the direct responsibility of the Ministry, precisely because it is so important for these organisations that they do their work independently. We have independent administrative bodies. There are parts that fall under a ministry where the minister does not have direct designation. I also said that I await the Minister's response. Perhaps my motion is formulated in such a way that I would like us to examine how this can be further developed. But I do see great risks in the current situation that, as a department in a ministry... The minister only has to take the elevator to the sixth floor of his department and he runs up to NCTV, where officials are paid by the minister and to the most bizarre, the most idiotic... It's, as I understand it, Divisions 6 and 7. It is now 300 FTE. And at least I think it would be good if we thought about this together, how we can ensure that this independence of these threats is always guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u130	A follow-up question from Mrs. Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u131	I would like to give the following to Mr Van Meijeren. The organisations that work in the security domain have an important task for all of us in the Netherlands. At the same time, they also need a clear framework, with strong accountability. Those are the clubs we need to discuss here in this room. So putting it at a distance in a ZBO variant, or even further away, is precisely the opposite of the idea that these are such important tasks that we are all full of here and that we want to hear about through the Minister. Does Mr Van Meijeren agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u132	Well, not entirely, because the D.A. is also a type of organization that plays a role in the field of security. There are now also proposals under consideration to at least remove the Minister's special power of designation from the Law on the Judicial Organisation. So it is not a very strange proposal; it is a regular one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u133	You also have an interruption from Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u134	Mr Van Meijeren referred to questions raised by his group. I think it is good to read the answers correctly, because it is quite clear that this organisation was not accused of violence, but of polarisation. So that's just to correct what's just been changed here. What I find more worrying than Mr. Van Meijeren reading the answers a little bit different than they are, I think, are those words about "sanitating" an official group. There is only one person responsible here that we address to what is happening in a ministry, and that is the minister. I'm very attached to that. I really think it is out of order that we here as a Chamber should decide what an official organisation should look like. If Mr Van Meijeren has views on which investigations the NCTV should or should not do, I would like to discuss this with him, but always through the Minister and not by the repairing of officials. I would ask him not to use those words anymore. I think he's smarter and he doesn't need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u135	First of all, let me respond to the first point. I have indicated that the Blue Tiger is connected to terrorism. In my opinion, this is already apparent from the fact that the organisation is mentioned in the Threat Picture of Terrorism. So they are indeed associated with it. As far as that is concerned, a motion would be addressed to the government. The Chamber is not competent to clean up an official organisation. That would be a motion calling on the Minister to clean up the NCTV. We see that this organisation is not working at all at the moment and that there is a culture of fear, an unsafe working environment and intimidation. By "cleaning," I mean a thorough clean-up. So that would mean that the Minister would put his own department, which he is in charge of, under a magnifying glass for once, and that he would ensure, for example, that such a Mrs Sterckenburg, who is clear that she has totally bizarre ideas about the extreme right, might find another job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u136	I object to this. Once again, someone's name is mentioned. We do not see that happening here in this Chamber. We address the Minister; we do not mention the names of officials. That is exactly how we can conduct the debate and that is how our system works. If Mr. Van Meijeren wants to be critical in all kinds of ways, he can. But this can be done in the political debate, in the accountability relationship with the minister, and not by calling officials by name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u137	Well, by the way, Mrs. Sterckenburg's full name is Nikki Sterckenburg herself is so brave to look up the media to spit her gall on us. Then Mrs. Nikki Sterckenburg shouldn't be surprised that the name of Nikki Sterckenburg is mentioned in this story by the party itself accused by Nikki Sterckenburg, and therefore couldn't defend herself. Then I would like to address the Minister to Mrs. Nikki Sterckenburg's behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u138	Away from Mrs Nikki Sterckenburg and back to the previous point. Following on from what the VVD and the representative of FvD say, and if I have listened carefully, I do not understand the solution. I understand the problem, although I do not entirely agree with it, but I do not understand the solution. Surely the solution to control the administrative elite should not be to distance authorities? You just mentioned the example that the D.A. needs to be more remote. On the contrary, my group would like to have more control over the D.A.'s office, because that sometimes does terrible things. For example, it requires too low penalties, or does not give sufficient information to the Minister, so that he cannot take away their passports, for example, from Syrians and cannot take away their nationality. So that prosecutor is already far too independent, as far as I am concerned. If your solution is to put an important agency like the NCTV at a distance, then we in the Chamber have no control over it at all. So I do understand the problem, although I do not entirely agree with it, but do not fully understand the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u139	It's a difficult matter. I agree with Mr Markuszower. That is why, in response to Mrs Bikker's question, I also said that we should look for a certain balance. As regards the independence or dependence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, we had to learn from the media some time ago that politics has been directly involved in the persecution of your group leader. That would not have been possible if politics had no influence on the prosecution decisions of the Public Prosecutor. And let's not forget: at the moment, the Minister is competent to give special instructions to the Public Prosecutor. So that also presents great risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u140	That's very good of you to call it. In that case, we see that it's very bad that the D.A.'s office... Look, in a normal rule of law, we should have kicked off all those prosecutors involved in the prosecution decision, and all those politicians who have been involved. The Chamber did not dare to hold that debate. A majority of the Chamber didn't dare and the Minister didn't want to; that wasn't necessarily this minister. But the Ministry has even helped prosecute. If the D.A. had been at a distance, it might have been worse, because then you give those OMs the incentive to pursue politicians on their own initiative. In the Wilders case, it was even worse. That's where the political influence was. I totally agree that this is even worse. So we only solve it by voting the administrative elite away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u141	At least we agree that we do not live in a normal rule of law. We can, of course, discuss what should ultimately be the solution to this problem. I'm not saying I have the truth on lease. I ask questions and I say that I am considering a motion that may also be formulated in the form of an investigation, but that the current situation is, in any case, highly undesirable is something we fortunately agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u142	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has asked for half an hour to prepare his first term. This means that we will resume this debate at 9:45 p.m. See you later!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u143	Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. We have arrived at the first term on the part of the government in the debate on the working methods of the NCTV. I am about to give Minister Grapperhaus the floor, but not before I agree with you that you can do up to two interruptions in two on the Minister's behalf or four short questions; and briefly, in my opinion, is also simply brief. Minister Grapperhaus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u144	Mr President, thank you. I will answer the questions of your Members grouped together later, but allow me to say something first, and that is perhaps a bit here and there a repetition of my letter of 21 May on the NCTV itself and a bit of history. NCTV's been doing its job for 17 years. The results of the work of the NCTV were and continue to be important and indispensable for the safety of our country and its inhabitants. In 2004, as NCTV, we immediately started the analysis tasks and the coordination tasks. Then we started with 80 people within the entire NCTV. That's 300 now. What we're talking about today is a group of 30 people. Let me be very clear right now. The NCTV is not and should not be an intelligence or security service. The NCTV does not follow or investigate persons in the manner in which intelligence services do so. The NCTV doesn't tap, doesn't follow, and doesn't observe. On the other hand, the NCTV plays crucial roles which are not fulfilled by other parties. As also stated extensively in my letter of 21 May and 12 April, NCTV is responsible for coordinating crisis management, combating terrorism, cybersecurity, state threats and all kinds of other areas of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u145	Mr. Azarkan, your first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u146	I heard the minister say the NCTV doesn't follow people and doesn't investigate people. I have spoken to people who were in fact in some kind of post that information was provided to the employer and who then sat home for six months to a year, waiting for an investigation on integrity or whatever. So how is that compatible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u147	That is consistent because the NCTV has a coordinating role. That's what I wanted to talk to you about, but I can do that right now. The NCTV may be the one coordinating in certain situations with respect to a particular threat. So this is something else that I would like to emphasise once again than that the NCTV is tapping, tracking or observing. In oral Question Time, Mrs Simons also said that you followed my campaign manager on Twitter. Well, no. I explained that at the time, and I am going to do it again in response to the question, but I am going to say it as an example. No, the NCTV is looking at politicians, journalists and others who need it, at what is happening in the area, so that we can form a threat picture. With this information, I repeat, nothing else is being done; it is not being used politically either. If that were to happen, I would be the one who would have to answer for it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u148	Mr. Azarkan, for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u149	The minister doesn't tell the whole story about the service here. It just isn't. The NCTV does draw up files on people and sometimes provides them to the employer when they are in public service. On that basis, people are sent home and an investigation is taking place on the basis of that notice. Then that leads to that person being allowed to go back to work after being in uncertainty for a very long time because he just doesn't know where to go. So I'm gonna ask you one more time, because it's really important. The Minister began by telling us that the NCTV is coordinating. Yes, it may be that we didn't study at the same school, but "coordinate" is for me something other than creating files, looking at what people have viewed online and shared on Facebook, drawing up a document about it and sharing it with the employer. How does that relate to each other? Is that "coordinate" too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u150	Mr Azarkan's question stems from my remark that NCTV is not an intelligence service. Nor should the NCTV be; I stress that. The NCTV is a department of my department which focuses on coordinating the anti-terrorist and security tasks; its name already indicates that. In general terms, these are tasks in the field of national security. That's the task of the NCTV. In that context, as I said, the NCTV is also a coordinating body. That can sometimes be coordinating towards a particular local party, a municipality or something like that, to indicate where there is a particular threat. As you read in my letter of 21 May, Cornelius Haga's case led the NCTV to say: should we not look very closely at our coordination and analysis tasks, so that we can focus on them? Where we believe that the legal basis of the tasks may need to be strengthened by now, we need to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u151	I was not even talking about the example of Cornelius Haga; I was talking about another example. But let's go to the Cornelius Haga investigation. The minister just said that the NCTV has a coordinating role. Now he adds that they also have an analytical task. What is the basis, within that coordination or as a complement to that coordination and analysis, to collect and share information independently? Is that with them and is there a legal basis for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u152	It has been since 2004. This must be in particular Articles 50 and 54 of the Justice and Security Decision. At least it is now called Justice and Security, but Mr Azarkan knows as well as I do that over the years the Ministry has sometimes been given a different name. It is ultimately the responsibility of this minister and it also means that this minister is ultimately politically responsible for what is being done with regard to NCTV. These tasks have been regularly discussed with your Chamber in debates, general discussions, annual budgetary discussions and also in the important debate in 2014 on the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. That's really important. I mean it when I say that I very much appreciate Mr Van der Staaij's reminder of MH17. Tomorrow evening, your Chamber and I will be speaking with Minister Kaag about progress on MH17. This was the result of the important debate in 2014. Anyway, there are many more, and that is a development that has been there over the years. Of course, we always have to watch that with each other. Tonight we are faced with the fact that the NCTV has indicated to me: we believe that the basis for processing special personal data needs a specific legal basis. That was also the background to the first letter I sent you on 12 April and then on 12 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u153	This will be your last interruption, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u154	It is very valuable; at least I hope it is. Because I'm really starting to feel like I'm living in a somewhat parallel universe. We have had a lot of debates here, including about the Wiv. We did that because we felt that security services, the AIVD and the STIVD, have far-reaching powers. This can cause enormous problems for citizens. That is why we have also agreed that it will be tested if the collection of information and data has far-reaching consequences for citizens. Now the Minister says: "The NCTV is a policy department with a somewhat special task, but in fact nothing more than that. They have started to collect information in part, and then they found out that they actually have no basis for processing it." We know that, don't we? We're talking about the security services in this house, aren't we? The Minister also realizes that we have laws and rules with each other and that an NCTV cannot decide by itself to collect and process information from citizens, and then to think afterwards: oh yes, that should not be allowed at all? It is then very euphemistic: "It is somewhat at odds with the concept of a legislative and regulatory task." I don't understand the Minister at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u155	I would like to correct that "don't understand." I don't know if I can do that in the parallel universe. But I did not say that there was no legal basis. I've been saying this all along. In the light of developments, the NCTV's tasks have been discussed with the Chamber over the years. I do not know how many footnotes have been added to my letter of 21 May. On the other hand, there is the development of regulation. The NCTV has said: we want to keep a very close eye on whether the legal basis for processing special personal data is solid enough. In the letter of 21 May, I explained what that basis was based on so far, and I also said that I believe that, in view of the developments I have just mentioned, it is absolutely sensible and important to strengthen that basis. Still, the NCTV isn't an intelligence agency. It concerns the processing of special personal data. It is also about the processing of public sources of special personal data. But it is not about acquiring such data, because that is something for intelligence services and that is not the NCTV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u156	I have the impression that the minister is mainly playing a semantic game about what is "following" and what isn't. It is clear that the NCTV, for example on Twitter, has not only looked at people from time to time, but has regularly looked at what people wrote. That's follow-up. A legal basis is now being strengthened because it appears that it is not enough. We are just talking about the NCTV being out of line by following people. Moreover, the Minister also knows that the NCTV worked with a number of fake accounts, fake accounts. They were erased immediately when that piece of NRC came in. Of course, that has everything to do with the way the NCTV got its information. Then how does the Minister look at that? That's just not right, is it? That's just a sign that NCTV was actually following people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u157	I already said before the publication in NRC that that fake account should stop. I can imagine Mr Wassenberg saying: we need to know exactly how long that was used and what that meant. I would be happy to return to your Chamber, but I believe that Mr Wassenberg and I really agree that this should not be part of the work of the NCTV. I would add that it started in 2009 in a somewhat different legal constellation in our society. Only that in 2021 was just not something that could be done anymore. Once again, I hope that Mr Wassenberg and I will find each other. I suppose so. Then I come to the answer to Mrs van der Werf's very basic question before she went to the microphone, namely: must the government comply with the law and has the law been broken here? Those, I think, are the essential questions. But if I start by answering the interruptions, I am going to conduct the debate in a very different, less ordered manner. Of course you can, but it'll be a lot longer. Perhaps it would be more useful if I answered the questions first. That leaves everyone with interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u158	I see Mr. Wassenberg. He wants to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u159	I'm gonna risk one more interruption. Then I've got two left. What the Minister is actually saying is: yes, it has been followed through a fake account. It doesn't happen anymore, because that fake account has been closed, according to the minister just before that article came from NRC. But that means that the NCTV did. This has now come out through NRC. I don't know if people are being followed in any other way, but that means that NCTV did follow people and used one or more fake accounts for that. So what the Minister says "no, the NCTV doesn't follow people" is wrong, because that has happened in recent years, perhaps since 2014. That's what I meant by that semantic game. Doesn't the Minister find the use of fake accounts to be active on Twitter or Facebook, a way to indeed follow people? And if you're an intelligence agency, you're gonna give it to me, because that's what the NCTV's gonna look like, isn't it, by erasing those accounts right away, as soon as it comes out, not just admitting that you're doing something really wrong? So they know that too, because they canceled that account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u160	No, because then we'll get back to the point that it's not intelligence. The NCTV has a large number of tasks that are based on specific legislation. Tasks related to monitoring and securing in the Police Act, imposing measures under the Temporary Act administrative measures to combat terrorism, the Passport Act, the Aviation Act. So you can't post the general statement that the NCTV is not allowed to engage in any particular activity. I said I think, "That fake account, we shouldn't do that." I can imagine that Mr Wassenberg would like to know a little bit more about that, but that commitment has not been taken up, so I shall leave it for a while. I didn't hear about that. But listen, there are really...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u161	Mr President, I had nodded in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u162	I'm sorry, I didn't see that nod. So through you, Mr President, I apologise to Mr Wassenberg. I didn't see that nod. But then I promise to get back to that. From that fake account, I say: we should not do that, but there is a very broad basis in all kinds of different legislation for these activities, let us say. In addition, there is the basis for a number of articles of the ECHR and the Organisational Decision on Justice and Security, and I have said something which I will repeat a number of times this evening. If, on the one hand, the development of tasks over the years has been as it has been, and on the other hand, especially by the GDPR, the regulation has become more specific in certain respects, then I think you should bring these two together well and make sure that you are back on your feet in terms of, once again, the processing of those special personal data, not in terms of the activities themselves, because they are often contained in that particular legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u163	The minister had started his introduction and probably has some cubes in a few minutes. But I'm still looking at the interrupting microphone. Mrs. Van der Werf is waiting. Mrs. Ellemeet wants to make an interruption. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u164	I'd love to. I heard the Minister say in reply to Mr Azarkan's questions that we should now consider whether we should add a legal basis to the work of the NCTV. This is also in his letter, which suggests that it is a recent development. Two examples are cited in NRC's article, published on 13 April 2021. One is from 2014, in which the NCTV reports to the predecessor of the Dutch Data Protection Authority that it is doing internet monitoring. Then it turns out that it not only captures the online usernames, but also the actual name. The processing of personal data has thus already continued. In 2016, as it turns out, citizens' data were already linked to other data, such as origin and religious and political views. Should the Minister not recognise that going beyond the powers of the NCTV in relation to the processing of personal data has been going on for much longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u165	I can't draw that conclusion. Let me get this straight. The conclusion of the project Tasks and foundations of NCTV was that identifying and analysing threats and risks, in particular in the field of terrorism and national security, had become legally vulnerable and needed reinforcement if you were to process special personal data, whether on the basis of your own public source research. In my letter, I will repeat it every time, of course, I have explained that there was always a very clear basis for this. That basis has also been addressed in a number of issues that have been played, including in matters that have been played in court. You can say at some point: do we really think that is solid in the light of how it has developed in terms of tasks and how it has developed in terms of what has happened in the regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u166	Mrs Ellemeet, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u167	I don't think what the Minister says is true, because it's not just about processing special personal data in 2014 and 2016. It is about collecting special personal data and then processing it. This article also shows that this went beyond the powers of the NCTV. My point is that I find several things somewhat euphemistic in the letter, including the point of 'it is now a problem and we need to find a better legal basis'. If you do some reading and digging work, which the NRC journalist fortunately did, then it turns out that this has been going on for a long time. That's what I started my own input with. Let's just be honest. Let's just name things that didn't go well. We're not sending the minister home. We're not sending anyone home here. We want to improve things, but then we have to be honest with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u168	I am not, of course, a part of that 'we' and what you are going to do to me, so let me not go into that. What matters to me is that we have just said: we have to look at how things have developed over time, but especially in the last period, in the direction of the Cornelis Haga case. I repeat: the NCTV has said that they believe that the basis for processing special personal data is only the processing of data from the public sources or the data gathered by other partners, so not the acquisition; I would like to stress that at some point we need a strengthening of the legal basis, also because of its transparent accountability. The latter was brought forward by a few of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u169	It may, of course, be that the acquisition of personal data is not the purpose, but it does, even though the Minister claims that it is not. It is done by Harry van Duinen, virtual agent of the National Coordinator on Terrorism. Let me quote the NRC article. "This Harry van Duinen starts his day on Twitter. He wants to know what the campaign leader of the political party BET1 reports." Then I'm still wondering, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u170	I gave that as an example. In Question Time, I already replied to the same question by Mrs Simons that an environmental analysis is being carried out by NCTV with regard to politicians and journalists, which has nothing to do with what the politician himself is doing or thinks, but which looks at the threat analysis that results from it. I said once again in Question Time that what is being brought up in that threat analysis is not doing anything politically at all. I believe that Mrs Simons herself concluded at that time: so it is really mainly about our own security. I have answered yes to that wholeheartedly, and I still see it that way. I still stand for that. This also applies to all those who have a function in our rule of law, and in that function wrongly 40, 50 years of unthinkable threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u171	I did not mean to imply that this was done from a political point of view. I would like to give you that in response to this answer. The fact remains that then there is simply a follow-up. And I still do not know why the campaign manager of BEL1 had to be followed, in order to investigate whether or not there was a threat. Is it a threat to this person or perhaps to the party's list leader? Well, there could be all kinds of reasons for that and I still haven't heard them. What I keep hearing is the word "job development." I find that an interesting word, because I can imagine that an organisation like NCTV will have clear tasks at the time of its creation and that these tasks will not develop without reason. It is not the case that someone gets a job, that suddenly other activities are being developed and that we speak of spontaneous task development. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Minister what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u172	Two things. On the first point, I would like to stress once again that I did indeed reply. I have said that the campaign manager of BEL1 I hope that Mrs Simons doesn't point that out to me, because I am politically responsible for BEL1 I am not interested in the substance at all. The point is that at some point there is an indication that there might be a threat. This could give rise to an environmental analysis and in that context to see what is happening around someone's Twitter account. I am sure that, however horrible, there are people in your Chamber who are confronted with this themselves, but also in their political environment and, unfortunately, sometimes in their private environment. It is right that Mrs Simons should ask for that. This is their responsibility and we will really have to continue to do so, however horrible it is, as long as we are apparently in a society in which these kinds of things happen and signals manifest themselves on social media, for example. The second point is the development of tasks. I got the point of criticism from some colleagues in the cabinet that it was such a long letter, on 21 May. I said: yes, but I want to give the Chamber a good description of what the development of NCTV has been in those seventeen years and what the development has been in the tasks. The NCTV was called, as some Members of Parliament who were sitting a little longer, I would like to take a look at Mr Van der Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij's memory, originally the NCTb, because that was only the fight against terrorism. That is, under Rutte I, extended to counter-terrorism and security. That's why I mentioned all those chambers. That was not to be a wise guy, but to be able to justify the task development that has been taking place over the years. Mrs Simons rightly says and your Chamber says: we want to keep an eye on whether you are acting in accordance with this task. I fully understand that. To those Members of Parliament who are wondering whether we are talking about an extension of the NCTV tonight, I say: no, these are still the core tasks as they once began in the NCTV. It is the point of processing not acquisition, because that is not what we do about personal data. As a lawyer, I'll find, if you don't point that out to me, that we all need to pour that more into concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u173	Third question, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u174	Changing the letter paper from Security and Justice to Justice and Security or changing a b to a v, I would all like to believe. But at the moment when there is a threat and people are therefore being watched, I speak from my own experience, I think it is usance that these people themselves are informed about it. So if there seems to be cause for this, I will take the Minister's answer to take it for granted that there is a threat about a campaign leader, then surely it would be to be expected that this person himself will be notified of this and at least receive a phone call? My first question is whether there might be information that we can get from you regarding the possible threat that has occurred or has raged around the campaign manager of BEL1. In addition, I still find it amazing that, although I understand that the services have to do their job, the Minister here reacts in a way that it is not so strange that an organisation like this is out of line. I would like to get a little more explanation of that, because whether there is a cause to be found or not: it is simply not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u175	That last point, of course, is what Mrs Koekkoek pointed out, namely that security must not be at odds with privacy or personal protection. At some point, I am also in favour of ensuring that the two remain in balance in a good way, proportionate, responsible and transparent for your Chamber. On the first point, it is not always the case that threat information is shared, but I also said in Question Time that I would like to organise a number of technical briefings for Members of Parliament so that everyone can have it in full. I keep saying, through you, to all Members of Parliament here, to all the political groups, and certainly to Mrs Simons in particular, that this is not going to happen in order to produce a dossier or to see if we can influence anything politically. You can always call me on that and ask me to answer that question, even if you say: did this happen for my safety? This is really happening because of security. That's what NCTV's for. If you don't mind, Mr President, I'll give you a small example. You have the NCTV officer and the NCTV department. That department is made up of 300 people. The staff member shall consist of one person, who shall also determine, for example, the threat image, the threat level. I will honestly admit that, when I was a minister, I had to get used to the fact that this level of threat is set by NCTV and that as a minister I have nothing to say about it at all. Also when the Utrecht tram attack hit us all, the NCTV, the official, determined what happened to the threat level. I'm politically responsible for that. The same goes for the D.A., for example, but I have nothing to say about it. It is good to do so in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u176	Your last question, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u177	The Minister's answers are not entirely in line with the information that comes to me. I personally know a case of someone who was spotted by NCTV in 2017. That was also reported to him by NCTV this year. They also managed to report to this person that his information has also been passed on to other services, namely the AIVD, STUD, IND and police, various municipalities and foreign security services. That doesn't match the story the minister keeps here, does it? And then I will come back to the task development in secret. An answer has been given, but it is still not clear to me what a task that looks like in 2017 looks like, in 2021 sister, when no order has been given for it. I would very much like to see that clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u178	I find this case very difficult. I do not know whether that may have been from the services, but not from the NCTV. So I find it very difficult to respond to that. On the other points, I will be returning to the questions in no time at all, I say to Mrs Simons. Mr. Chairman. In the small debate we have just had, one more thing is very worrying, namely that the NCTV has an extremely wide-ranging task in the field of national security. Then I shall return to Mrs Koekkoek's point. If that task has developed over the past few years, for example, I mentioned the 2014 debate, which also resulted in the Temporary Law on administrative measures to counter terrorism, and I am the first to take responsibility at some point if we have perhaps not given sufficient attention to the fact that the basis for processing special personal data is still completely in order. That's what we need to look at together. I'm about to tell the plot of my story, but I also have a bill in preparation. Anyway, I'll get back to you in a minute. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to continue with the questions. I think that, through the interruptions, I have already given sufficient consideration to Mrs Kuik's point about the basis for using public sources. But again, this is what I want to do. I believe that, in order to use personal data for processing, even if it is only for a general threat picture, it is really important that we also lay this down in specific legislation and not only in an organisational decision and international obligations underlying it, which, incidentally, also rest on me as a minister. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say a few words about the extension of the NCTV's tasks, also in relation to the question that was just asked about this task development. It is particularly visible in the successive budgets of my ministry from 2012. For example, in the 2019 budget, the coordinating role in national crisis management and the National Crisis Centre has also become part of the organisation. I very much appreciate Mrs Van der Werf complimenting the people of NCTV. Over the past year, in the covid crisis of 90 people, there has been more than full-time coordination of the entire crisis structure there. Of course, that's something the outsider doesn't see. I had said in my text 'that's happening in the context of public administration', but then I'm sure I'll get another interruption saying that that's not transparency, so I didn't say it like that. But that really is the machinery of crisis management where people organise all these things, ranging from the precise and timely setting up of the decision-making process in the Council of Ministers to the elaboration of the measures, to the setting up of questions about mouth caps, and I do not know what is happening anymore. Mr. Chairman. I was rightly referred to my missionary status. It's been here since January. I'd almost say I don't know any better. I think it's okay to stress here once again that I would find it difficult to get into that missionary... eh, missionary? Yeah, basically that's me, a missionary. I would find it difficult to use this status with new powers. But that is not the case. We are talking about existing powers. They stay what they are. I just think that there is a need for a more solid legal basis for the processing of personal data for the part in question. I'm working on that bill for that. If there is a legislative proposal, we must, of course, talk about it in the Chamber, whether you think it is sufficiently anchored in that way. If you think that actually goes too far for a outgoing minister, then we should discuss it at that time, but I would not want time to pass. I'm talking to the AP. I aim to send that bill in July, as you know, to the Council of State. However, I would like to go to Mr Wassenberg, who is simply a man, and I know him well enough to ask him whether I admitted that the practices of NCTV were illegal. No, I don't see any reason for that. Here's what this is about. You have a very careful consideration to make. These are activities in the interests of national security. There was always a prevailing view, I am still responsible for that, but it was long before I was a ruler that the legal basis for processing certain personal data in that context was sufficient. But we ourselves are "we" then the NCTV and then myself; that honour comes to the NCTV's understanding that it is simply desirable to have a more solid legal basis for this, also against the background of the required provisionability of the processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u179	I have waited patiently, but I am always hearing a most bewildering text from this minister, namely that the legal basis, the legal basis, needs to be strengthened. My question and, in my view, Mr Wassenaar's, excuse, Mr Wassenberg, was: can you just state whether you have broken the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u180	It's okay that... Honor to whom credit is due: Mrs Van der Werf had also asked the man whether I broke the law. I would also like to say that I do not think that is the case. Here's what this is about. There's a legal basis. This legal basis, which I have all put in the letter, is laid down in an organizational decision, in particular Articles 2 and 5 of the ECHR, I would like to say for the record, and a number of judgments from our highest court. They weigh in on the situation that exists. I think that Mr Van der Staaij did not take us back to 2014 for nothing, and that we all realize that tomorrow we will really get thrown in the face when we talk to each other about that 2014 tragedy, that there was then a very urgent consideration of national security. That's what I'm really saying. In the context of the Passener Name Records Act, PNR, I have been going through the Acts of that period, and also those from the period when the attacks on Zaventem and that theatre in France had just taken place... What's it called? I can't think of it right now... The Bataclan! There you see, Mr President, I am sorry about the lengthy introduction, that at that time there was a very great social urgency, which always fills in proportionality in a certain way. I think the legal basis has always been there, but I do think that if you move forward, if you institutionalize tasks, you have the task of establishing them as legally as possible. I do not know whether it was Mrs Van der Werf or anyone else, but one of you asked for that transparency. I believe that you should also have transparency in this respect, both for the citizen and for the other two powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u181	A follow-up question from Mrs Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u182	The Minister gives an extremely long answer, while I think it is very simple: why do you have to create a legal basis if you have not broken that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u183	We have always said that the tasks and the background to which this takes place are developing on the one hand and that on the other hand the Umfelt excuse for the germanism of regulation is developing. I think under the Wbp it could be a little coarser or coarser. We spoke very well with the AP about this too. Although the court has still not given a negative ruling on this matter, it is simply wiser to record it properly. I would like to add one more sentence. The development of our domains, especially the digital domain, has also been enormous in recent years. Those are just things that make you say at some point: yes, it is wiser to do so in a specific law, I would like to prepare you: it will be a very small law for everyone to make it very visible again and not to refer to treaties, organizational decisions and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u184	The Minister admits, of course, that this legal basis was not entirely satisfactory, but he does not want to say yes. But then he also says that it was actually necessary for national security to break the law. That is, of course, nonsense, because of course you could have made an adjustment in good time. In response to Mrs Koekkoek's questions, you said that we should not set security and privacy opposite each other and that they can go well together. Then you could have made the necessary adjustments yourself in good time, so you didn't have to break the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u185	No, I've been saying... Mrs Van der Werf asked me if I have broken the law. I said that, in my opinion, that is not the case. It is my deviation as a lawyer, but of course I look very much at the law but also at the development of the law. I would like to say one more time, however, and I shall say it very briefly, that there is a dynamic in society that you will also have to respond to with a dynamic in your laws and regulations. It is therefore not the case that we are standing here now and that I say that I believe that for years there has been a violation of legislation and regulations. What I am saying here is that I am also on the basis of legal advice sought, but that was initially the result of NCTV's view that, given all these developments, we should simply provide for a very specific legal provision in relation to the processing of that personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u186	Mrs van der Werf's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u187	In that last sentence, of course, there is the answer, because why do you need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u188	Because at some point you can see that developments in society and in law are such that it may well be that in a year's time I will not be able to say with ease that we still have a legal basis. I'm from that world. I mean, you just see... it's not a stand-alone thing that develops case law and regulation. That has to do with how you feel about things in society. Let me give you an example. Following a statement that has recently stirred up quite a bit, I once again reviewed my old dissertation on the horizontal functioning of fundamental rights. We didn't have one in the Netherlands in 1970. Now people are gonna say, man, what are you talking about? I understand that, because a lot of people, including in this room, will not have 1970 very much on their retina. In fact, I see that Mr Wassenberg does; that is another point that he and I share. But law evolves because society evolves. If the NCTV itself finds that over the years, with the assent of the Chamber, its tasks have developed in such a way that it is wise to lay down a specific legal basis there, then that is, I think, how both society and law have developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u189	I'm just gonna be very honest: I still don't get it. The NCTV is doing very important work: coordinating, promoting cooperation, creating the Threat Statue, monitoring and securing, implementing the 2014 Jihadism Action Programme, and then since 2017 also imposing area bans and reporting obligations on behalf of the minister; in any case, the Minister formally does so. And besides, in all these tasks, you can't help but process personal data and special personal data. I don't quite understand how you can process data if you're not allowed to acquire it. You need to get that data first. So I don't think you can hold on to people you don't follow. So I have the following specific question. The Minister said quite clearly: the NCTV does not follow people. I find that weird with all the tasks the NCTV has. You need files to eventually impose a reporting obligation on someone, don't you? And you still need a file to push the prosecution, for example? We'll get to that later. So the question is, how did the NCTV get that data? They come partly from the services, i.e. the intelligence services and the investigation services, and partly from public sources. Then the question is, exhaustively: how did the NCTV get those data about people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u190	Mr Van Nispen himself has already given an important answer to his question. So I don't know if it'll still be an interruption? Okay, so he's at zero. But seriously. For example, the services provide information. And the NCTV, as coordinator, brings together information from, for example, local authorities, such as the municipality and social services, but also from the other judicial institutions. The NCTV coordinates that and then, in some cases, but not always, some of that information is processed according to the rules as they apply. And for that information that is being processed, you must have a legal basis, in so far as it is special personal data. Well, then we come to the discussion I just had with Mrs. Van der Werf. At some point you can see that the NCTV has been given a very important position in the context of coordination in particular. It's not intelligence, because that's a service that's really gonna look, acquire, and then analyze. But if you simply have that coordinating role, you still need a legal basis for any personal data processed. I have said that there is, but I think it should be strengthened gradually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u191	You must be careful of your interruptions, but still. Let me be honest: I think this is a semantic discussion. The Minister began by saying: we do not follow people; fake accounts have been used and should not have been used. So, following people. There's information coming from all kinds of sources about people to NCTV. There is no other way to do that if you look at all these tasks, regardless of whether you think all these tasks are desirable and whether they are not duplicated. But then files are formed. Decisions affect people, and yet the minister here says: no, but no people are being followed. I can't stop thinking that's weird. I don't have any questions about it, Mr. Chairman. I'll save my questions for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u192	Minister, continue your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u193	I would have liked to answer it, but if the question doesn't come... Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about monitoring. The supervision of what we are talking about tonight, i.e. the processing of personal data, should, as far as I am concerned, lie with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I believe that I should at least check with the Personal Data Authority whether the supervision has been sufficiently structured or sufficiently protocoled or what you want to call it in recent times. I have also taken the first steps to this end. I would like to come back to that in your Chamber, because I really think that it should just be one-on-one very good. For the rest, I said that NCTV is just a part of my ministry for which I am fully responsible. So there is not another kind of shot in the form of the Wiv, as you have with the services. There isn't any. So I also feel that I always have that responsibility directly to your Chamber. My inspection is independent and will see to it that it is done properly. Again, what I will present to you later in a legislative proposal is the supervision that the GDPR is already doing. On the occasion of this legislative proposal, I would like to discuss with you whether you believe that the structure of this legislation, which I will be responsible for in a letter, is sufficient or that you would feel that it needs to be strengthened through the AP. Okay, well, that's that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u194	Before you continue, Mrs Bikker has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u195	If I listen carefully, the Minister undertakes to come back to that supervision very explicitly in the legislative proposal. I would ask him to include the role of the Chamber in this. What is a desirable time to report to the Chamber on this? Because when I look back on my own, I find little to nothing, and so does the inspection. That also makes it very difficult to conduct the conversation in the interim, not on the basis of very heavy newspaper articles, but simply when something is spotted by an inspection. For example, I cannot find any inspection reports. I can imagine that they would be shared if there were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u196	Yeah, that's right. But then we really should watch each other... Look, at no part of Justice and Security I'm not going to talk about other departments for a moment. I can imagine that we will come back to this when we talk about this bill. Then, apart from the supervision that must be done here by the AP, we can see if there is any possibility of giving more regularity in that. The very dangerous is the independent of an inspection. This applies not only to the JenV Inspection, but to all inspections. That means I certainly shouldn't send the inspection out and maybe not your room either. She's gonna have to pick that up herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u197	I can understand that. On the other hand, I would like to make two findings. One is that we are talking here about a coordinator. That is a unique fact within the government. I cannot mention that many other examples. There has even been a discussion in the beginning whether it should not be part of the coordination of internal affairs. This also says something about cooperation between all kinds of stakeholders. The second is that the inspection of course has the freedom to see where it pinches and where it goes wrong. But if I don't find a single report and the NCTV has been around for years, then there is a field of tension there, also because of the control of the Chamber if things are going so well. That is precisely why I would ask the Minister, because of these two aspects, to come back explicitly to the legislative proposal, in particular because personal data are processed here. This is, of course, for a different purpose from that of the services or the police. I get all that. I can understand that. It is precisely for this reason that I think it would be wise to reflect on this, so that the Chamber can also be stable and not find anything again on the basis of incidents. That shouldn't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u198	To make a short story long: I am simply saying that, in order to get back to this aspect in that letter, once again stressing to your Chamber that the supervision that this bill would have meant, really is what I will answer in that letter, the Personal Data Authority is, taking into account what some people have said about the concern about the capacity of that Personal Data Authority. That is really the body for that, and we have also established this with each other in discussions with the authority. But I admit it, and then I made a long answer. Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to ask Mr Azarkan about the processing of personal data with regard to individual persons. This has been an explanation for the Task Force's Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing, as well as at the request of local authorities. However, I stated in my letter of 12 April that, precisely in the context of that truly solid legal basis, I have suspended this work because the processing of personal data was considered to be the most far-reaching. That is also awaiting a firmer international basis to be agreed with your Chamber. And I would also like to stress that following that public debate in public sources, which has been asked by some of you as a question, and Mr Van Nispen did not just come up with the question of putting the thermometer in society for threat and its development, as it is called in the jargon. And I told Mrs Simons, because of her question: there are no people being portrayed as targets. And in the Haga question, the NCTV has just said: wait a minute, here we have to take a look at how that has developed. Well, that eventually led to that conclusion that we really need to set up our legal base very much more firmly. So I also replied to Mrs Kathmann that there is a certain gap due to the suspension. That's at that point I was just talking about at the task force. But we must also realise that the coordinating role of NCTV also means that NCTV brings together all players in the field to discuss with each other in a particular situation and to see what everyone has to contribute in terms of knowledge and solutions. That's one thing. And the second is, of course, that it goes away from NCTV, and then it goes away from it, of course, it is always possible for criminal investigations to be carried out in a certain situation if there is a suspicion of criminal offences. And that close in certain situations, of course, also the possible gap that might arise. Mrs Ellemeet asked how the outgoing ministers Asscher and Blok reacted at the time to the plan to spread a message without expressing the involvement of the government. Indeed, the ministers at the time were informed about and supported the Brand Destruction project as an approach to preventing radicalisation in the context of counter-noise. There is no trace of what the reaction of the directors concerned was further at that time. Then there was the question of both Mr Eerdmans and Mr Markuszower whether I agree that the Hipster/Muslim Bar project has little to do with combating terrorism. It is one of the many projects that the ZOZ Fund has supported with the aim of bringing people to thinking about stigmas and prejudices as part of the breeding ground for polarization and extremism. That Fund ZOZ supports artists who produce creative projects and who try to bridge differences between people, break established frameworks of thought and stimulate empathy and understanding. I would just like to say that, as Minister of Justice and Security, as I have always said with regard to undermining crime, I also find it my job to pull the cart in order to prevent young children from playing the wrong role in it. I also think that the Minister for Justice and Security should dare to take responsibility for projects which, of course, can always be ridiculed by these and genes, but which, as far as I am concerned, are trying to focus on the other side. You can think differently about that, but Belgian writer David van Reybrouck said: you have to hit with one hand and stroke with the other hand. I do not want to say that we should take that literally, but I think we should always have a different approach. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to briefly emphasise that we really should not want supervision of the CTIVD. Then you're talking about monitoring services. Then we'd go a whole other way with the NCTV. I'd be very much against that. Moreover, as long as it lasts, but at least as Minister of Justice and Security, I simply have to take full political responsibility for doing and leaving the NCTV, as I am doing tonight. Mrs Koekkoek asked how we are going to ensure that the AP has sufficient resources and technical knowledge to control the work of the NCTV. It is, of course, important that the AP is adequately equipped for the performance of tasks. Of course, I am always on this subject in consultation with my colleague for Legal Protection, who is responsible for it. He's also making arrangements with the AP about it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower asked how many dangerous imams are not in sight. The NCTV doesn't target anyone. From the phenomenon research conducted by the NCTV on radical trends among Turkish Dutch, a certain imam came into view, but the NCTV has no task to conduct targeted research into individuals or organisations that may pose a threat to national security. It's just the AIVD that does that. Mr. Chairman. Ms Michon was concerned about the tasks in relation to local government. At the request of the local government, NCTV occasionally provides explanations about persons. This is then really part of a foundation or organisation, or at least in most cases. Data that have resulted in monitoring the Internet is also being used. But when explaining an organization, you really need to look at what's going on online. This is in the context, as I said, of the consultation in which the NCTV often has a coordinating role. Both the AIVD and the police have indicated that they do not see any possibilities to take care of that kind of pigeons as the NCTV did. This means that, if there is no reason for criminal investigations, you will have a certain gap, but I have just said that in reply to Mrs Kathmann's question. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the question of processing personal data also applies to other organisations. Well, the precise problem analysis in other dossiers is another debate. I don't think we should be feeding it here right now. But of course it is something that can always play in other places. Then we are not dealing so much with the moment when you set up an organisation, but also with how that organisation develops within the allowed frameworks in society. Then there were a few questions about the workplace, especially from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u199	Before you do that, I think it would be wise to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij who has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u200	The Minister is right to say that this is another debate and a broader one where it plays more. Just because we now have the problem that we sometimes need a more explicit legal basis in the light of the GDPR's requirements, is my question whether the Minister, now that legislation has been announced, could see if it is broader, so whether further reinforcements of foundations are needed from the same analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u201	I find it very difficult to say something meaningful about that here. The NCTV itself had a clear reason for saying that it would like to examine closely the basis for the processing of special personal data. I think what Mr Van der Staaij has to say is right, but we should speak to your Chamber more broadly. And then there is the question of whether it is up to me to start that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u202	As far as I am concerned, it does not necessarily have to lead to a debate. But if, in the context of the preparation of that bill, it is now said that we see that a more explicit legal basis is needed, then my question is whether, in the context of the legislative proposal or later in the preparation of the budget, a scan can be made and whether the same problem can be considered in other areas. I am concerned that we should not wait for a newspaper article with: hey, that or that official actually has the same problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u203	The project was started here a year before the newspaper article. Honestly, the NRC nevertheless had a nice scoop about that. Such a scan is not so much... I might say so with regard to the National Coordinator Anti-Semitism Control, to take it as an example. Perhaps that will help Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u204	Fine. I honestly think that if you take a case like this, you can see at the same time: hey, but wait, if that happens here or there, isn't that also the case in other places? This is because we are now also doing an analysis based on what is now coming to light here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u205	In any case, that is beyond my modest discretion, but I can assure you that I will send a letter to your Chamber at the same time, which will then be shorter than that around the National Coordinator Anti-Semitism. Then perhaps we can discuss it a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u206	I see Mr. Van der Staaij nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u207	Before we move on to another point, I would like to come back to monitoring. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is currently the supervisor. In the context of legal protection, we have had previous debates on too few resources, too few people and too little technical knowledge in the AP in order to cope with that supervision that has become much more difficult in that changing world. The question I am asking about supervision focuses in particular on this specific, more complex task that the supervisor has in the context of processing personal data in this context, which is a little more special. I just heard the Minister say that a static standard such as the standard proportionality is also being filled in in this context with social urgency. That is quite special, that is not something that happens when personal data is processed from, for example, a tennis association.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u208	Whose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u209	For example, a tennis association or a football canteen. There are many places where special personal data are processed. The GDPR and the AP monitor all these specific contexts. To what extent is the AP provided with sufficient resources and technical knowledge to cope with this particular context? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u210	I want to make it simple by saying that I will return to that in the letter I have already announced on how the AP and I think we can justify this supervision in a good, structural way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u211	Thank you to the Minister for this commitment. I would therefore like to include the part that falls within the scope of the colleague for Legal Protection, the Minister for Legal Protection. Is that gonna be taken so we don't pull this off each other? The legal framework and practical supervision can then be developed in a coherent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u212	In any case, I think that letter will be written partly on behalf of my colleague for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u213	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u214	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ellemeet had some questions about the workplace. Of course, I have a duty to promote a good working environment and avoid things like group thinking. Everyone must have the idea that they can do their work in a good way and everyone must feel free to share differences of understanding and the like. There are tensions and contradictions from time to time. Those analyses and other products are sometimes subject to intense discussions. I can tell you from my own experience that I have been able to have such a strong discussion and have been a part of it myself. But you still have to make sure that doesn't lead to a wrong kind of tension at work. I have made sure that the management of NCTV and NCTV really pay a great deal of attention to this. I am confident that what has been reported there has actually been properly resolved at work. When I say "solved" that sounds a bit harsh, but I mean that a good outcome came out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u215	Now it sounds a bit like I'm worried about arguments that sometimes occur in the workplace, but that's not the essence of my question. As a result of the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, the judge fingered the NCTV because there was insufficient substantive support for a profile. So it's really about the quality of work. That is what I am talking about; not about the tensions between people, although they can be very annoying. Of course, there must never be an atmosphere of intimidation. From everything I've read now, I'm going to say "I hope this isn't the case now that the quality of the work is under pressure." I am concerned about this, because it affects not only the people who work there, which is annoying enough, but also many other people. Because this creates images or indications that are qualitatively insufficient, with far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u216	That image would do real injustice to the NCTV. In my letter, I also thought about that. The idea that one person could completely determine how an analysis becomes, I do not endorse. There is really an extensive process in which people are challenged or I do not know what it is called; at least others are critical of it. The issue Mr Markuszower referred to, with that report... I thought it was Mr Markuszower, but perhaps I got Members of Parliament mixed up; I am sorry about that. In response to the draft report that came out last year, I wrote to the Chamber: that was a concept; that was not a full report at all. Within the NCTV, but also outside, there has been a lot of commentary and feedback. You can't tell from that that the quality isn't good. That would also not be fair to those responsible for the draft version, because they did not mean it as a final product. I am convinced that the NCTV, especially under this official NCTV and under the current management of the NCTV, is well aware that there is scope to ensure that these analyses are carried out in a qualitative manner, because there is a possibility of criticism. That's why I was just beginning to think that, in an organization where you function well, you should also have freedom in the jargon called having security to say to someone: that story of yours is missing a few things. Or: you didn't bring this study.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u217	Mrs Ellemeet, the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u218	I have zero doubt about the official. I think that's the right person in the right place to handle this, but I think the Minister is playing the game. That's what's bothering me. I didn't mention that report. I'll mention the judge's ruling. We know the extreme right-wing threat was underestimated. That is a mistake and it has been corrected. It was made small, but in the end there turned out to be a threat of extreme right. There appear to have been other cases where someone was placed in the suspect's corner, while nothing turned out to be wrong. I think that was an imam. Those are just facts. I don't think we should get over this so easily. These facts have very far-reaching consequences. What that department does is incredibly important. Let's just be honest about this and discuss this and name it. I hope that the Minister, and that is actually my question, can indicate that where it was sometimes below quality, this has now been resolved. That's actually what I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u219	These are not my facts, so I am going to distance myself from them very clearly. As far as the underestimation of the extreme right is concerned, let me just call it a radical right. I will have to answer another question later from a Member of the House who, quite frankly, blames too much attention for this. Anyway, I'll get to that later. The Cornelius Haga issue, I have already said it twenty times, has been an important reason for NCTV to say: we have to look critically at what has not gone well there and what we have to do about it. It seems to me that they have done so themselves, so that is their merit. Then I don't see what would go wrong at this point. The fact that there are sometimes solid discussions in that corner is the case. It is still well guarded by the managers responsible that this happens in a constructive process and not to the detriment of people. But I do not see the idea that there would be a quality problem or that mistakes would not be recognised. I really don't see that. That is precisely what the whole process is about, which we are so late for tonight, that the NCTV as an official, but also as an organisation, has said: we have to learn a number of lessons from a case where it has not gone well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u220	An interruption from Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u221	With regard to this situation in the workplace, the Minister also acknowledges in his letter of 12 April that he has a duty, both as a director and as an employer, to promote a working environment in which both group thinking is avoided and in which NCTV employees feel safe to share professional differences of understanding. Meanwhile, NRC's article shows that employees are complaining about 'intimidation, an unsafe working environment'. One of the officials even says that the NCTV itself is completely polarized, while the NCTV should prevent polarisation. In any case, therefore, the Minister has failed to fulfil his duty and my question is: what mistakes has the Minister himself made and what lessons has he learned from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u222	In this image, I do not recognize the NCTV, nor do I recognize the responsibility attributed to me. Moreover, this responsibility should not go so far as to involve the Minister in what is happening in the workplace. The Minister, and also the administration of the department, must ensure that there are trusted people, that a whistleblower system works and all those things more, that it is really well-equipped. In addition, however, they must also ensure that there are people in management who provide the freedom and security that I was just talking about. I believe I have now put my hand in the fire for the current management of the NCTV, including the official NCTV, and I am not taking back any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u223	A follow-up question from Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u224	This is remarkable. The Minister does not recognize himself in the picture. But I quote from a letter signed by the Minister himself, April 12, page 6. I will quote one more time: 'As a responsible ruler, I have a duty to promote a working environment in which both group thinking is avoided and in which NCTV employees can safely do their work'. Now the Minister says: no, my responsibility does not go so far as to interfere with situations in the workplace. Yes, that responsibility does go so far. Also a quote from the same letter: "NRC reports about tensions on the workplace at the Core Unit Analysis. The NCTV recognizes and recognises these tensions." So there is a certain amount of tension. The Minister is responsible for that. Why can't the Minister admit that he himself has made mistakes and indicate what lessons he has learned from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u225	It's gonna be a long night. I have just explained in detail the task of the administration and the minister as a politically responsible person. I can name all those things, from, what was it, confidants to whistleblower schemes to a good judgment system. I'd like to name them all, but we'll be busy for a long time. I said it. That's the minister's job. That's what it says here. That was the quote we've heard twice now. Furthermore, I did not deny at all that I started in replying to Mrs Ellemeet that these tensions have been there. I have just said that I believe that the people responsible for the NCTV have actually started to do so. Then I said very carefully: I don't know if you can use the word "solved," because that sounds a bit like you shut people up or I don't know what. That's not what I mean at all. They just really looked there: okay, how are we going to do this? That's what I'm gonna stand for. Now I've said it twice. That should do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u226	Mr. Van Meijeren has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u227	A final remark, however. The Minister first acknowledges in the letter that he himself is responsible. I regret that he is now trying to shift responsibility at once to the officials, 'the officials responsible', I have heard. But in the end, only one person is responsible for a safe working environment at NCTV, and that's the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u228	Really, you can't quote twice from a letter and then go against those quotes. I am not talking about what your Chamber says, but it is quite clear here that I have a duty to promote that working environment. That's what happened. I have therefore also seen that the management of the NCTV recognizes and recognises the tensions that were there. That is something that has been dealt with. I don't know what else would happen. Mr. Chairman. If we are going to talk about Mr Van Meijeren's questions, I would like, if he will allow it, to continue with a few points which he has raised. The different faces of coronaprotests: that is a phenomenon analysis. It deals with the phenomenon of conspiracy thinking quite extensively, to be precise, in Annex 2. I can just refer to that. I quote the scientist Jelle van Buuren. He says: "Complot constructions are understood as an explanation for an individual or social situation or development experienced as unjust or intolerable by presenting it as the deliberate result of a group of people working secretly with evil intentions." As stated in the analysis, conspiracy constructions as an expression of discontent can provide insight into the functioning of society and within it of politics, the media or science. But conspiracy constructions are not only an expression of distrust, they are also drivers of polarization, hardening and radicalisation. I refer to what is mentioned in greater detail in that annex. Then the question is how do I assess the work of an official who writes a publication. Firstly, there is such a thing as freedom of expression, including for civil servants. Then there's something like academic freedom. Certainly a minister who comes from the academy himself has full respect for it. That is all I have to say about, other than that I very much appreciate the fact that some of your Members have mentioned that you are debating with me here and that you may go over me entirely politically and otherwise, but not with my officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u229	Mr. Van Meijeren, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u230	The Minister rightly points out that officials also have freedom of expression, but I would like to point out to him that it is limited for officials in Article 10 of the Civil Service Act, which states that officials should not express opinions when this could jeopardise the functioning of the public service. That is what we are talking about now. It is not intended that officials working for a minister in the media should express views which are not in accordance with the minister's policy or which thereby endanger the functioning. But also about this conspiracy thinking, because before that I actually walked to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u231	No, this was your last interruption, Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u232	But I was actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u233	A short question, I would have said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u234	As for conspiracy thinking...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u235	No. Okay, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u236	I'm just correcting a misconception to avoid any ambiguity. Let this be a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u237	Well, it doesn't work like that, but just finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u238	Yeah, about conspiracy thinking. It is a very slippery path which conspiracy thinking is exactly. When the Forum for Democracy pointed out last year that covid was most likely developed in a laboratory, it was interpreted as a conspiracy theory. Then Facebook banned this opinion. Everyone who expressed this view on Facebook was censored. In the meantime, it appears that there are very strong indications that this is just right. Now Facebook allows that opinion again. Does the Minister agree with me that this restriction on freedom of expression merely means that it may have taken much longer until we have been told the truth? Does he agree that there should be extreme restraint in the prohibition and censorship of certain opinions which do not come from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u239	This is a question that, although it was put very briefly, has a lot of assumptions in it. The last thing I'm looking for is restricting freedom of expression, especially my officials. Article 10, as just mentioned at the outset, was given an explanation which, in my opinion, no government representative in this cabinet can make his or hers. I refer, for the general point of conspiracy thinking, to Jelle van Buuren's piece, which I have already mentioned. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question from Mrs Ellemeet, about the Public Prosecutor's Office. I explained in the letter that the College of Attorneys-General does not recognize itself as I have also spoken with the head of the national prosecutor's office in the picture. I would add that this was something I felt addressed to myself. Your Chamber knows that I have always said, as of 26 October 2017, that there is an explicit asymmetry between me and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm entirely politically responsible, but the D.A. is now completely autonomous. There is therefore no such interference. The College of Attorney General didn't recognize himself in that. It has confirmed that to me once again. That's what the head of the national parquet did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u240	I had also specifically asked for this. We know that since 2017, the tasks of the NCTV have been expanded with those area bans and those reporting obligations. We see that employees are going to move in on local case transfers. We see that NCTV employees are going to call the police and the D.A. about descending surveillance or the extension of an anklet. In what way is that not interfering in individual criminal matters? The District Attorney's Office says that these NCTV employees do. If you think that's appropriate, ask the NRC. "No, we don't think that's appropriate." The Minister replied to this question, which he maintained this evening: the NCTV did not interfere with criminal policy pursued by the prosecution, let alone individual matters. I really don't understand how the Minister can keep it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u241	Yeah, I can hold on to that. And I really have to say: I invited the college and the head of the national parquet following that remark from a spokesperson, who said that he thinks that that is inappropriate or I do not know what. I've really said honor, people, tell me. Then I just want to be in all... Let me put it this way. I have always operated with both the college and the national parquet in a good understanding. So I was allowed to assume that they didn't feel unsafe in my environment and wouldn't dare say something was going on. We have spoken with each other freely. I said, "Say it; I don't recognize it" and they had the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u242	But that's how it's gonna be a long night, because this can't be right. If NCTV is responsible for, among other things, area bans, an anklet with an individual, or a reporting obligation, I must say, it is of course inevitable that you will also deal with that concrete criminal case in itself. But if the Minister continues to deny that here, then that is interesting. Because a prosecutor's spokesman says one thing, and later that's gonna be corrected by the D.A.'s boss. Anyway, let's move on. Then it's about the director of that Islamic high school, the Haga Lyceum. It would maintain ties to salafistic blowers. In a task force, NCTV asks the D.A. if the D.A. can't prosecute Haga Director. That refuses the Public Prosecutor's Office the amount is too small........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Does the Minister also say that this is not true, that did not happen? It just didn't happen and it doesn't make any sense at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u243	Mr. Chairman. Again, all layers in the story go through each other. Yes, I do. I have to be able to say that. What I mentioned is: has there been any unwanted, inappropriate influence from NCTV? That question has been answered by: no, we do not recognize ourselves in that. This is a different matter from the fact that the parties are together, also in a much broader context, and that the NCTV, as I said earlier in the debate, has a coordinating role to play in bringing the parties together in certain situations. I have not been told that there has been inappropriate or improper pressure or anything like that. That a party in the context of such a case consultation says "wouldn't you even be able to do this" or "would it be possible to do that?" Yes, that seems to me to be the exchange we need in the context of national security, as the municipality will sometimes suggest, or by the CJIB or I know a lot of who. But that's part of the job. But that's different from inappropriate influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u244	No, Mr. Van Nispen, you're through your interruptions, so I'm afraid. There's gonna be a second term soon. I thought we were ready for that by now, but perhaps the Minister still has a few questions to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u245	Mr President, I do not want to fail anyone, so I will see if I have answered everything now. The official who... We talked about that. I think I said almost everything. Which sources of information are used? I think I have also mentioned Mrs Michon's question. There was another question from Mr Wassenberg. I think I have already dealt with this, namely how we monitor it online. But that is not happening anymore in the way that I debated with him just a moment earlier. I think I've answered everything from everyone, Mr. Chairman. Oh yes, I had been asked if there was a power struggle between BZK and JenV. I have not been able to ask my colleague, but in my opinion that is really not the case. Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u246	I still see Mrs Kathmann. He may have missed an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u247	In fact, with all due respect, I have to say that no question has been answered from me. I've been waiting very patiently. Everyone's through their interruptions. There are still a whole range of eight questions, but unfortunately everyone is through the interruptions. We started this evening with a question that was: are we finally going to have a substantive debate on what NCTV is asking for to function properly in the spectrum in which we are now? We have also asked whether we can come to some understanding, because we disagree here all the time. Mr Van Nispen is not going to sit here again full of frustration for nothing. More confusion is created by the Minister than clarity, I say with all due respect through the President. I didn't... I didn't... I didn't... I In fact, of everything that has appeared in the NRC report on the basis of which we are debating today, the Minister has said 'I am abandoning it' or 'it does not make sense'. If so, I wonder if the Minister is prepared to ask for correction. Because then we will have a completely different debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u248	First of all, I have really responded specifically to a number of points made by Mrs Kathmann. I am sorry if I have replied to some things in a general sense and have not mentioned the name of the Member of Parliament. I do have that habit. That's one. Then two. I'm really gonna argue with that. I was very specific to Mr Van Nispen. I have said that there has been no undue influence. Then the two of us had a little debate on the question if you bring something into a case discussion. Mr Van Nispen mentioned an anklet as a concrete example. That is what I said: it must be possible. So I'm not gonna let you tell me that I didn't specifically go into things. I've been standing here for a couple of hours. I'm not gonna let you tell me, Mr. Chairman, I swear. I am doing my best to conduct this debate well. There's criticism that I really care about, but I'm not gonna let you say that here. I have dealt with many of NRC's points. I even complimented their scoop, the English word for scoop. On a number of points I have really explained, for example, to Mrs Simons, and I have been accountable. So I'm just not gonna let you tell me that I'm just sitting here talking a little bit, because that's what Mrs. Kathmann says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u249	Words are being put in my mouth. I'm not saying anyone's talking here. I think that we will then come to an essential statement by Mrs Ellemeet today, namely that most people are not here to send someone home or to interfere with the quality of NCTV or not. We want to have a debate today. It's 2021. The tension between privacy violations and the fundamental principles of the rule of law and the functioning of our bodies is under enormous pressure and thus the confidence in the functioning of our citizens' NCTV. That's what we're talking about today. What set of new legislation does this NCTV need to function optimally? And that has not become clear to me at all today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u250	I think I have said four times: it is a law that is rather short and that is only about processing, with a k, of personal data for those particular analysis tasks. I have also said a number of times that it is not about acquisition, with a v. I have also emphasised the scale of the NTCV's tasks and that this is a small part of them. For example, we were talking about the task development, which some of you were asking about. In the letter of 21 May, I really wanted to show how this has developed over the years, but you cannot ask me to quote from all these Chambers or from, for example, that list of 43 points, or what was it, from 2014. I can't do that to you, because we'll be here for a really long time. In summary, the NCTV has been carrying out these tasks and powers, I must say, since 2004. These are tasks for which I am fully responsible and which have been deduced from me as well. It's not a Zbo. I haven't said anything about that. We don't have to clean up at all, or I don't know what. It just has to be a well-functioning department of the department. All I have come to your Chamber with is a small bill for the processing of personal data. Apart from Mr Van der Staaij's point about the National Coordinator Anti-Semitism, I have also promised a letter explaining how the AP and I are going to carry out structural monitoring of data processing together. I shall also go through the more inspection-oriented monitoring in that letter, at the request of Mrs Bikker, because she is concerned because she has not seen much of it in recent years. That's pretty concrete, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u251	I would like to say, however, that this is not quite concrete, because we will then be overseeing something that many of the people in the Chamber who I have heard this evening think is going to be extended, because we do not agree on whether it is interference in individual matters. Most of us think so. You don't think so. Are individuals being followed? The majority of the Chamber thinks so. You don't think so. And then the supervision of that task package is assigned to an underfunded and understaffed body: the AP. The fact that we are concerned about this seems very clear to me since we started this debate here at 7.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u252	I have also said, in connection with Mrs Koekkoek's interruption, that I am right to come back to that with Dekker, and I have also said, on behalf of the Minister for Legal Protection. I forgot. That's what I promised. And about the question of whether more personal data are being processed. No, that bill shows exactly what it's about. If that goes too far with regard to the processing of personal data, but that is a description of what is happening, then you can say that you do not want it. I can't make it transparant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u253	Your last interruption, Mrs. Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u254	One thing remains for me to say: a great deal of respect and respect for the Minister because he wants to bring it to the Chamber as early as July. But yes, the PvdA started with "three times is charm," but we are about to have the same debate a fourth time again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u255	On the previous point, I did not respond to Mrs Ellemeet. Of course, you can also send a outgoing minister away, but I don't think that's what this evening is about. We simply want the legal basis for that processing to be properly arranged. The debate on Mrs Van der Werf's oral question was also intended to be this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u256	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for his first-term reply. That means we're moving on to the second term. By now it's 11:00 p.m., and 11:00 p.m. we have as some sort of final moment. We're past that, so we're gonna do a short second term. You have 1 minute and 20 seconds to ask your supplementary questions or to make motions. We'll start with Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u257	Mr President, I had already started, because that is indeed a problem. Thank you to the Minister for replying, to colleagues for the debate. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NCTV operated outside the legal framework, inter alia, by tracking citizens and organisations online with fake accounts, and the Minister terminated this after he found out and had the fake accounts removed;]] [[noting that there is insufficient legal supervision of the NCTV on a number of tasks and that no supervisory authority has investigated the working methods and actions of the NCTV;]] [[noting that NCTV must comply with laws and regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an external independent investigation into activities outside the legal framework and the collection and processing of data by NCTV in recent years, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NCTV operated partly without a legal basis and that there is no supervision of, inter alia, the processing of citizens' personal data, the working methods and actions of the NCTV;]] [[calls on the Minister to allow NCTV to operate directly only within the legal framework and to ensure that the NCTV does not act in breach of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-133]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u258	Then I have to thank you for presiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u259	If you leave the motions here, we can make sure everyone can read them. Both motions have been co-signed by Mr Wassenberg, who is now also entitled to speak in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that NCTV has followed citizens in recent years and has collected, processed and disseminated personal data and lacked external supervision;]] [[Whereas there are signs of political influence on the NCTV reports, of interference with criminal proceedings by NCTV, and of a sick working environment, which puts pressure on the quality of the analyses;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into the working methods of NCTV, at least in the above cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Simons and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u261	Mr. Chairman. With only strengthening the legal basis you are not there, because online surveillance restricts civil liberties. This must be proportionate and effective, and no less drastic means must have been put aside to achieve the same objective. We are not convinced of that. Well, who are we? This will be demonstrated by the signing of the next motion. I'm keeping it exciting. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the creation of a legal basis for the processing and dissemination of citizens' data by NCTV actually amounts to its subsequent legalisation;]] [[whereas NCTV is not, or should not be, an intelligence service;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the legislative process to create a legal basis for the processing and dissemination of citizens' data by NCTV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Azarkan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u262	Strict but just, Mr. Chairman. NCTV is not and should not be an intelligence agency. The Minister said that very clearly, but the question is: have they not become too similar? Because, Minister, there's the storage system called ZOT, isn't there? Not because I think that's crazy, but because it's called "Search and Storage Tool." It's got thousands of people's reports and profiles in it, right? Isn't that right? Isn't it almost inevitable because of all these tasks that it's becoming some kind of intelligence service? Just as I believe it is inevitable that there has been interference in criminal matters since the extension of the tasks of 2014 and 2017? Now the Minister acknowledges that this interference is indeed there, other than in response to the parliamentary questions, because that said: there is no interference. Now there is interference, but according to the Minister it is not inappropriate. Yeah, that's different! Still, I don't think it's pure. If the Minister is interfering in criminal matters, then there is an indication and then it is transparent for the Chamber, because then we can talk about it. But if the NCTV does that on behalf of the minister, we don't know. For this very reason, I believe that the NCTV should return to its core tasks of coordinating the fight against terrorism and promoting cooperation. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NCTV was established to improve cooperation in the fight against terrorism, to gather information and to coordinate policies;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that NCTV deals with the original core tasks and does not collect its own information about citizens or bodies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u264	Mrs. Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u265	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. It is clear today that we need to proceed with this bill as soon as possible, that little law, as the Minister called it, to ensure that the NCTV can carry out the tasks properly and has a clear legal basis. If that law is here quickly and can go to the Council of State in July, I expect it to work in the autumn, well, this year. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NCTV should be able to process (special) personal data for the performance of its analysis and coordination tasks;]] [[noting the need to strengthen rapidly the legal framework in order to avoid gaps in the fight against terrorism and the protection of (national) security;]] [[noting that NCTV plays an important role in the protection of (national) security, but that the lack of a special legal basis means that it is no longer doing so in part;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently establish a special legal basis for the NCTV to process personal data for the performance of its existing analysis and coordination tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the Personal Data Authority in order to consider the safeguards that can at present enable it to carry out the suspended tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bikker and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u266	Thank you, Mrs Michon. Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the Minister wants to create a basis for something the NCVT already does, then that basis is not there and the law is therefore broken. It would please him if he would just acknowledge that and if he would say: yes, we have gone too far. Unfortunately, that doesn't seem to happen tonight. I also asked the Minister what he did with the commitment he made during Question Time. He then promised me to inform the people whose personal data were processed without a basis. He would specifically refer to the case of a prison image which, in retrospect, was wrongly held inactive and sat home for seven months. I would like to hear another response to that. In addition, it remains unclear which data the NCVT still processes. Mr Kuik also asked for this. In his first letter, the Minister wrote: "In the meantime, the Core Unit Analysis uses a separate ICT system that allows them to watch without using such accounts." That sounds like the procedure of the fake accounts has simply continued, but without the fake accounts. I would therefore like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u268	Thank you, Mrs Van der Werf. Then look at Mrs. Kathmann for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u269	Mr President, thank you. I think that going from distrust to confidence has actually defined the start of this entire parliamentary season. If something is about trust, it is that citizens should be able to have confidence in operating services such as NCTV. The coverage of the NCTV in recent times has contributed far, far, far from it. I have also said that my own confidence in the functioning of the NCTV is incredibly great. The confidence in the Minister is also incredibly great. However, we have not really made much progress by perhaps having torn it up or doubted it. The Labour Party therefore intends to sign many of the motions intended to give people more confidence in the functioning of the NCTV. But she also intends to take the much more fundamental discussion on what set of rules we need in this new world of data hunger to strengthen that trust in public services, by directing it to the Committee on Digital Affairs, so that we can have that discussion much better. Well, at least we'll be back here soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u270	Thank you, Mrs Kathmann. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'm just not entirely satisfied. I have not been given all the clarity I think is necessary to ensure that the NCTV will function better. About the contacts with the Public Prosecutor's Office was Professor of Constitutional Law, now I have to pronounce his name very clearly, Paul Bovend'Eert of Radboud University. He has said that the minister can give a lead to the prosecution, and it is not intended that NCTV, in consultation with the prosecution, should lead to prosecution. The Minister's a little shady about that. He says you can coordinate and talk to each other. But I think we should just be very clear about not wanting to. I also have some questions about the profiles. The Minister says: the NCTV does not establish profiles or information about individuals. However, we know that there are four profiles around the Haga Lyceum. I understand that there are many other profiles about more Islamic preachers. So I'd like to get another reaction to that. Finally, Mr President. The facts I was talking about that pointed at the earlier malfunction of the NCTV were about the far right. I just wanted to clarify that. This was about a threat analysis of May 2020. It was said that the threat of the extreme right was small, while the AIVD a few months later sounded an alarm about extreme right-wing online groups. That's what I was referring to. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u272	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister and together with him the National Coordinator, the NCTV, who is present. I am quite content with the answers we have received, except for one point, and that is what I also mentioned. In your answer, you mentioned changing prejudices, stimulating understanding, hitting it with one hand and sharing it with the other. Yes, but we prefer not to see such things organized in the fight against terror. We're not okay with funding theatrical performances from the NCTV. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, under the pretext of prevention, the NCTV, through the ZOZ Fund, places one million euros annually with the Prince Bernhard Cultuurfonds to co-finance theatre performances;]] [[Whereas this tax money can and should be used more effectively to keep the Netherlands safe;]] [[calls on the Government to end the financing of theatre performances by the NCTV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u274	This motion is supported by a large majority of the House of Representatives. Well, we're gonna see Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u275	Yes, but you might want to name who's taking the motion with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u276	Well, that's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u277	Okay, fine. Then we're gonna see it. Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. If you issue the motion here, we can also make sure that everyone is aware of it. Mrs Koekkoek's turn is for her second term. If you press the button there... We can do it from here. It's totally self-defense. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, the technique's a little new, sorry. A number of bottlenecks that can exist between privacy and security have been discussed today. Not all these bottlenecks are equally deepened and solved, I think. That was also evident from the outstanding questions that were left. I think it is an important or positive thing that the Minister has promised to be positive about giving greater transparency and insight into how data has been collected from people and what has subsequently been done with it. So that's really about giving residents back control of their own data. Finally, the request to include this in the letter sent before the summer, which is getting longer and longer, I think, and to make clear concrete proposals to give individuals more control over their own dates, without, of course, neglecting safety. That's something I think we can start with soon. I therefore hope that the Minister can agree to include this in the letter to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u279	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. Then I'll look at Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, and I will share them with the Chamber as quickly as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are already services with far-reaching powers to protect national security;]] [[expresses the view that no additional powers should be conferred on NCTV;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the powers of the NCTV by strengthening the legal framework for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NCTV has systematically made Islamic organisations and individuals a victim of reports based on incorrect information and prejudices;]] [[noting that NCTV fails simultaneously in its national security tasks by seriously and unjustly trivialising the threat of the extreme right and ignoring information about it;]] [[noting that anti-racist organisations and political parties have been monitored by NCTV for a long time without a legal basis;]] [[points out that there may be institutional racism in this area;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct a comprehensive investigation into discrimination, abuse of power and the use of illegal instruments by NCTV staff, and to inform the Chamber of the results by the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NCTV has used resources for a longer period of time for which the legal basis has been disputed and the monitoring thereof has been nil;]] [[considers that democratic control of NCTV should be strengthened;]] [[calls on the Government to make an inventory of possible instruments for the Court to exercise greater insight and control over the functioning of the NCTV and to forward this inventory to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-140]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-141]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Azarkan and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u281	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for his reply, which was not satisfactory in all respects. We still have a lot of concerns about the working methods of the NCTV, and in particular about the independence of the analyses. Aren't they too politically coloured? In the first term, I already announced that I am considering a motion to reconsider the positioning of NCTV within the government, but for that it is of course important that we first have clarity about the precise cause of the problems at the moment. Several motions have been tabled by my predecessors to clarify this, which we support. We await the answers to that point with great interest, as well as the investigations that have been asked, and we will then decide for ourselves what follow-up steps are appropriate to solve all the problems within the NCTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u282	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. We are going to suspend for two minutes to ensure that all copies are available and that the Minister can give his appreciation of the motions and answer the outstanding questions. So I'm suspending for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u283	The second term of office of the Government shall begin. I call Mr Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u284	Mr. Chairman. First of all, many thanks to your Chamber for the fact that we have been able to discuss this in detail. Through you, Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Kathmann that it was a good thing that at the end we were getting some focus on what, I hope, we could bring together. That's not all, well. We need to see if there's anything else we can do about it. Mr President, first the questions and then the motions. As for the questions: SP and GroenLinks ask about the involvement in criminal matters and the prosecution. The NCTV has no special interference with the State's Attorney General's Office. The NCTV has not interfered with criminal policy or individual matters. I am not going to repeat what I said earlier. I do not see Mrs Ellemeet right now, but I think that we should just make this very clear once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u285	Now we are back to square one, because now the Minister says that there is no interference in individual criminal matters. We had just established in the first period that that interference was there. We only had a difference of opinion because the minister said he didn't think it was undesirable or inappropriate. Now he goes back to the wrong answer to the parliamentary questions that there is no interference in individual criminal cases. I just don't think that's right when you look at the tasks they have when it comes to reporting obligations, the land bans and all that sort of thing. That's exactly what they're interfering with. That's exactly the point. The question was whether the Minister did not agree that it was impure. Because if a minister interferes, there's a clue. Then we'll hear about it and we can talk about it. But the NCTV does that on behalf of the minister and I think something is going wrong. Let's not have the discussion again... There's a difference of opinion about inappropriate or not, but the interference is just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u286	I'm picking up this glove. I would suggest that I go into this in a letter. We don't agree on that inappropriate thing, but I'm really going for it. What I wanted to say is that interference is really about how a criminal case should develop. Let me say that again in a letter to your Chamber. Then we have what we can check on with each other very clearly. Mr Van Nispen will then be able to appeal to me by the time we get back here to discuss that bill, perhaps again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u287	I see Mr Van Nispen nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u288	We've got to move on. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the prison image; Mrs van der Werf's question. In the process of developing phenomenon analyses such as DTN, personal data may be processed for the purpose of explaining the threat. In the case referred to by Mr Azarkan, the employer, another government organization, was reminded of information from public sources. That's what that government organization acted on. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question about citizens...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u289	You can already see Mrs. Van der Werf coming. Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u290	Let me be clear: during Question Time, Minister Grapperhaus promised me to proactively inform everyone whose information had been wrongly used, and especially those who had suffered annoying consequences of it. At that time, I checked again whether that was a commitment. Then the Minister said yes. I still don't know if he did that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u291	I'm sorry, but I really need to get back to that commitment. I think it has been done in the context that people will at least be warned proactively from now on. That is how I understood the question of mid-April. This case has taken place. So I can't make up for that, screw up or anything. Those facts are there. If I don't... Then I'm gonna go back to... I would now like to suggest that I return to that in a letter, because otherwise we are going to have a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u292	I am fine with that letter, but I would like to add that the GDPR is asking for this. And if we as a government can't do this kind of thing, how can you ask people in the country to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u293	I understand. But now you come to a discussion that some people have called "semantic," but which I find rather essential. I say: there is openness, there has been a basic act; and yes, there is no reason in itself to say that we must now say that we have done wrong, unless it is established in certain cases, for example in legal proceedings. At least that's how I took it. But once again, I admit that in a letter, let me come back to this in a very specific way before we have a rather unclear debate about this; so indeed about whether or not this proactive obligation, which exists, is being complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u294	I just wanted to leave it at that. You have heard a promise, Mrs Van der Werf. Mr Azarkan also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u295	I understand the feeling of my fellow Members, because it is sometimes toe-curious how quickly the Minister talks away. So far as the danger is concerned, I repeat: the Minister ignores the fact that in the case being discussed someone is in uncertainty for eight, nine months or a year, and there is then with that employer on the basis of information that is not well documented and that cannot be traced back to the NCTV, then there is an investigation that is done half-baked and then it is said: we see no further reason, you can get back to work. And that person is sitting there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u296	And your question is, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u297	My question is: does the Minister understand that this method ensures that people are frustrated at home, not knowing on what basis they can't get to work? What do we do for people like that? What are they entitled to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u298	Yes, but we basically have the judge, and a number of cases have also gone to a judge. And the case that has been mentioned here a number of times this evening is a good example of that. Look, first of all, it is true that the General Data Protection Regulation simply grants rights to people whose data is being processed. You have the right to see what has been collected, unless there are certain restrictive grounds for refusal and so on. Well, there's a fixed procedure at NCTV for a judicial review. It is set in accordance with the requirements of the GDPR. That procedure has been tested several times in practice and can pass that test. Citizens also know where to find the NCTV. And since the article in NRC................................................................................................................................................................................ And I cannot, as a minister, comment on what comes out of such proceedings by means of a court ruling. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u299	The question is whether the person who is sent home by his employer on the basis of an official report of data from the NCTV is sitting at home for a year, then there is an investigation and there is nothing coming out of that investigation, and that employer then says to that person: you can go back to work, and with that I do not need to show you any results from any research. Do people have the right to see that investigation, including the data the NCTV has collected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u300	I can't make a case-by-case assessment of that. I can only repeat the rules here. But all I can say is that if the justitive or "Justiable" or "Justiable" or "Justiable" or "Justiable" or "Justiable" just for a moment in Dutch, the person concerned says "I'm not in the right to access that personal data at NCTV, unless there is a particular ground for refusal, but I don't know that already. In that case, he may challenge both what is apparent from that inspection and the possible application of the ground of refusal before the court. Those are the procedures, but I cannot comment on the specific cases. Yeah, well, someone can walk away angry, but I can't do much with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u301	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u302	Mr. Chairman. Then there was the ZOT, the Search and Storage Tool, rightly mentioned by Mr Van Nispen. It contains relevant information from open sources and information services. This brings together and combines a number of things in order to indicate them in coherence and meaning. So that's completely different from what we stopped doing. That was someone who was working with a fake account on the Internet. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Werf asked about the method of monitoring the Internet. The NCTV looks at publicly available information on the internet. Internet monitoring therefore means that NCTV employees, as they do with other public sources, such as newspapers, magazines or TV broadcasts, follow the social discourse, as far as this is relevant from the point of view of national security. This means that public expressions of trends and phenomena, and actions and reactions are monitored to assess whether there are anticipated or unforeseen effects on national security. That's what they do with a software program. They can therefore pick up these points of discussion in a general sense. This is, of course, done in a way in which those employees cannot enter into these discussions, so that they cannot influence behaviour and other things either. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u303	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u304	By the way, this method was registered as internet monitoring for the public processing register under the regime of the Personal Data Protection Act. Then there was the question about the threat of the radical right, to which Mrs Ellemeet referred. It's been looked at for years. At the end of 2018 we have to mention this.The NCTV has issued an open note on this issue. So that was before the attack in Christchurch, New Zealand. Back then, the NCTV pointed out the threat from that current. Even after the attack, this attention has been constant. In DTN 50, of June 2019, the implications of the attack in Christchurch are also discussed. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Cornelis Hagas case. We have been asked to give some more explanation. That case came to light through an intelligence analysis by the AIVD. In January 2019, the information was described in a post. Among other things, this went to the municipality of Amsterdam. The NCTV then gave oral information on this matter to the educational inspection. This has only been done because the education inspection is not a specialist in this area. In essence, that is the point Mrs Michon pointed out as an example: the translation given to the information by NCTV in this respect. Subsequently, the NCTV converted information from public sources to documents that were more targeted at individuals. The NCTV was convinced that this was necessary at that time. The judge's ruling showed that the judge criticized it. This has led to the whole project on the foundations. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. First of all, Mr Azarkan's motion and Mr Wassenberg's motion on item No. 133, on an independent investigation into activities outside the legal framework and the collection and processing of data. I don't recommend that motion. That motion alone is based on the fact that there has been insufficient legal supervision, whereas precisely for these tasks the supervision lies with the Personal Data Authority. Furthermore, the implementation of this would put an end to the further process that we are now looking at. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I also advise Mr Azarkan and Mr Wassenberg on 134. That motion is about operating exclusively within the legal framework and not acting in violation of the law. It is also assumed that no monitoring will be carried out. That's in the motion, but that's not right. That's why I advise against the motion. But I've announced a letter. I hope that Mr Azarkan will be somewhat pleased, as I have said before. In this I come back to how supervision could possibly become more structural. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 135 by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Nispen, and by Mrs Ellemeet, Mr Simons and Mr Koekkoek. This motion is about an independent investigation. I also advise against this motion, which assumes that there would be political influence and interference in criminal matters by NCTV. The motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u305	Before you proceed, Mr Wassenberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u306	However, I would like to touch on the issue of external supervision. The Minister says that the Dutch Data Protection Authority supervises, but we all know that the Minister knows even better than I do that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is structurally overburdened. Again from the piece in NRC.I believe that the name of that newspaper has been mentioned a hundred times today..................................................................................................................................................................................... This means that there is no external supervision, because zero is none.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u307	I do not believe that this has been zero, but on the basis of a question from Mrs Koekkoek, I have promised that in the accompanying letter on structural monitoring, including on behalf of my colleague for Legal Protection, I will indicate what the means are. There was a question of, I believe, Mrs Kathmann also to pay attention to the fact that you may need more specific, more expert knowledge in the AP. That was Mrs Koekkoek, by the way, because she was talking about a tennis association. I will also deal with this in that letter, because that also concerns the question of resources. That is, of course, essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u308	Okay, but that's the surveillance that's gonna come. We are now also talking about the monitoring of the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u309	I will come back to that in the letter, but that there would have been no supervision at all is not my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, we have debated this subject for five hours. We have tabled motions because you are dissatisfied with the Minister's answers. At least, that's usually the thrust of a motion. The minister's gonna appreciate that. You cannot agree with that, but I simply do not want to reopen the debate. And, Mr. Azarkan, you're record holder interrupting tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u311	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but this is also a compliment to me. I have taken my job as a representative of the people seriously. That doesn't mean that if you ask a lot of questions, the quality is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u312	I was just about to say. You're triggering me a...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u313	I'll remove the compliment to myself right away; I shouldn't do that. I didn't mean to. I was concerned about the remark made by the Minister that there is supervision, by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Can the Minister indicate how often the Dutch Data Protection Authority has investigated the activities of NCTV over the past 17 years? Can we get those reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u314	I shall return to that in the relevant letter. I did not say for nothing: I think that I should look closely with the Personal Data Authority at how, when we come up with such a legislative proposal, we attach a form of structural supervision to it. That means that you see it come back periodically, for example. I wouldn't know that by heart, but I'll go into it in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u315	I heard a promise. I'm going to ask the Minister to give an appreciation to the rest of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u316	The motion in part No. 136 by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Simons, on a legislative process to stop NCTV's activities, I recommend. Then the motion to part No. 137 of the Van Nispen and Wassenberg members. I'm equally dissuaded of that motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 138, by Mrs Michon-Derkzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u317	Mr President, I am pleased that the Minister has provided an appreciation for the motions and I understand that you wish to conclude the debate. Today we are having a five-hour debate with the Minister, but tomorrow I can have an eight-hour debate with this Minister, so I am sorry that it will be over in a moment. But I do think we have a right to know why a motion is denied. The Minister said that we do not collect intelligence about civilians. He makes a distinction between processing and acquiring, which I have my doubts about. Now this motion is making a very clear statement. Then the Minister could also say: that is quite in line with what I have said. Otherwise, I really don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u318	If I may read the word 'collected' as 'acquired' and if the piece of 'or agencies' can come out, as well as that part about 'no information', then I can leave the motion to the House's judgment. But that can't be the point, can it? It's fine with me, isn't it? But I have already mentioned all the things from the motion so that I can only discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u319	It really is not a goal to table an unnecessary motion. That's not the point. I'm just trying to understand some of this debate. What do we do about intelligence about people? The minister doesn't want intelligence. I notice it's going that way anyway. We're filing a motion that we don't want to. It's not getting any clearer. I'll just have to say that. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u320	Mr President, through you, Mr Van Nispen is a very good lawyer. Let me give you that for free, if that's what he values. He is a really good lawyer and he knows as well as I do that, when we talk about data acquisition or data processing in legal terms, the word "collect" in that context introduces a completely different concept. The question was, why do you advise the motion? I have just said this: because there is no collection of own information about agencies. Yeah, and then the term "collect." Which means I can't give that motion judgment Chamber. She's just been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u321	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u322	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I had already given the Chamber of Justice to 138 members of Michon-Derkzen, Kuik, Bikker, Van der Staaij and Eerdmans. I would like to say a few words about this in the context of the appreciation. With regard to the first part of the operative part, 'the government urgently requests a special legal basis': it seems logical to me that that judgment should be Chamber. On the second part of the operative part, "the government also requests that the Personal Data Authority be consulted in order to see what guarantees it can make possible at the moment to carry out the suspended tasks," we have not yet had the opportunity, but that is also what I leave to the Court's opinion. If the Chamber adopts the motion, I will discuss it. The motion in part No. 139, by Mr Eerdmans...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u323	No, Mrs. Kathmann, it's not your motion. We're not going to do the debate again. I don't know what your question is, but I'm not gonna give you the opportunity to ask it, because we're gonna keep ticking back and forth. Let the Minister finish his appreciation. You can stand by the interrupting microphone, but I won't give you the opportunity. We're gonna vote on Tuesday. Then you can express your opinion on this. You've had the opportunity all evening to... Proceed, Minister Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u324	Let me try to construct it very quickly, however, with regard to the judgment on the motion for a resolution on item No. 138, towards Mrs Kathmann. This is not about an extension of the tasks, but about the request to see if you could do a task that is now being done with guarantees under the GDPR. That is not an extension of any competence, hence the Court's judgment. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 139 on stage performances, I'm not sure. In the first period I explained why I think you should use all kinds of means to see if you can influence the discourse. Then the motion to part No. 140 by Mrs Simons. The first part, then, comes to the point that Mrs Kathmann has just said, says that no additional powers should be conferred on the NCTV. I would very much like to leave that part to the Chamber of Justice, because that is precisely what I am talking about. If I can understand the second part of the motion in such a way that it concerns the processing of the special personal data, then I can leave the motion as a whole to Chamber. I look through you, Mr President, at Mrs Simons to see if I can read it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u325	Minister, would you mind telling me again how you'd like to interpret the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u326	The motion is divided into two parts. The first part speaks out: no additional powers. That's where I can find myself, so judge Room. But then there's the second part. If I may read "the government requests that the powers of the NCTV with regard to the processing of personal data be more explicit" et cetera et cetera, then I can leave the motion as a whole to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u327	I see Mrs Simons nodding. By the way, it is nice that you give an appreciation of the speech-out, but that is really always the Court of Justice's judgment, because that is a ruling of the Chamber. Nice to know you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u328	It is always good to hear that the cabinet is enthusiastic. Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 141 is also part of the Chamber's ruling, so I will not dwell on that. I really do not see any indication of an investigation into discrimination, abuse of power and the use of illegal instruments by NCTV employees, so I must discourage them. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u329	Why don't you let the Minister give us a little appreciation on that, Mrs Simons? The motion in part No. 142 is also yours, and then I'll give you one last chance for a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u330	The motion in part No. 142 I must advise against this in the light of the fact that at least I have promised a letter and also announced how we will continue to implement that monitoring, both along the AP line and on data processing as well as along the inspection line if it is more general. So I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u331	A final question from Mrs Simons, I am thinking of the motion on item No. 141.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u332	That's right, Mr. Chairman. If we read that NCTV employees themselves declare that they are dealing with colleagues who see a salafist behind each tree, and that is only one quote from the article..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u333	I have read the quote to which Mrs Simons refers, but I do not recognize at all how the NCTV functions as an organisation, but also how the people there behave in terms of content and professionalism. I do think I should have a little more than one quote from someone, rather in street language, of "behind every tree," apart from the bad character, if that's the case. But I'm not going to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u334	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u335	It is the Minister who is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u336	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u337	The motion does not ask whether the Minister sees bread in it because someone has made a comment. We have just had a debate in which many examples have been given. I was just saying about this example: I'm only giving one. We have talked today about a lot of examples that I think give real cause to look at the culture in that organisation. I understand that the Minister finds that complicated, but then I would also like to know what the hell it takes to say: yes, that's enough? People are getting thrown out of here. Mr Azarkan just referred to an example of someone who just comes home on the basis of all sorts of suspicions. This is about human lives again. This again affects the daily existence of people, their sense of security in the country where they live, work and are part of it. I am very curious to know what the hell it will take before anyone here has the guts to say: yes, we are going to investigate this, because the first article of our Constitution says that we do not accept discrimination and racism. I am really curious what should happen before this Minister is convinced that we are just going to ask a few questions. I'm not asking for convictions. I'm not asking for dismissal. I'm just asking, look at this organization and its actions. That's what's bothering people!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u338	Thank you, Mrs Simons. You have tabled a motion to that effect. The Minister has said what he thinks of that. It is up to the House of Representatives, our people's representatives, to give a ruling on this matter next Tuesday. I can hear you shouting all kinds of things, Mrs Simons, and you may think so, but the debate has taken place. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contribution to the debate on the working methods of NCTV, as we have been able to do with Minister Grapperhaus this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-26.u339	A dozen motions have been tabled. They will be put to the vote in your Chamber next Tuesday. I wish you a safe journey home. Goodbye. See you tomorrow.
