ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on extending the support package for companies. I would, of course, like to welcome the spokesmen, as well as the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and, this time, I am going to say it very well, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Now it's really him. Last time, I almost appointed you before. You're very welcome. We have 12 speakers. I propose that a maximum of three questions be put to each other in the first term of the Chamber. For the sake of clarity, three questions per group, not three questions per spokesperson. Three questions, not three interruptions. I shall then give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Let's find out what that's like. So three times two, or three times one. We're gonna see. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, good morning. With the start of vaccination, light begins to glow at the end of a dark tunnel. A moment when we can hug our loved ones again, children can go back to school and entrepreneurs can open their shops again. The extended lockdown now provides dense schools and closed shops and restaurants. Mr. Chairman. But the light at the end of the tunnel is not visible to many entrepreneurs. They slowly see their life's work slipping out of their fingers. In addition to the public support of last year, a lot of own money has been used, such as pension money and children's savings. And no, this is not an entrepreneurial risk as we know it, this is necessary public intervention to get out of this health crisis. Therefore, additional support for entrepreneurs is necessary. Mr. Chairman. This morning, on the day of this important debate on additional support for employees and entrepreneurs, I heard the Minister of Finance on the radio. He talked about necessary cuts. This CDA minister does not want to raise the minimum wage, leaving hundreds of thousands of people in poverty and, on top of that, presorting for cuts in our public services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	All those people who are concerned and who have reported to us in the last few days and weeks, those entrepreneurs who feel the consequences of the corona crisis every day, will get a blow in the face of this minister. So please also explain to the Minister of Finance how he thinks of this, because it is the old-fashioned reaction of the belt and teeth on each other, when after this health crisis we have to invest in our society in the years to come, in the security of people and in healthy businesses. That is the right recipe, rather than the conservative cuts that the CDA is proposing. Mr. Chairman. The new support package is justified, but it is not enough. The water is on the lips of shopkeepers, barbers and restaurant owners. Shopkeepers have unsold supplies and the restaurants have been empty for weeks. They are increasingly wondering how they can still pay the staff salary. The compensation for these entrepreneurs must be wider and more generous, because we want entrepreneurs to be able to continue with their lives and business even after this crisis. The Labour Party is particularly concerned about the fate of many small entrepreneurs. Local neighborhood shops and cafes, as well as nail stylists, hairdressers, pedicures and beauty specialists, often have few fixed charges and little own money, so are now not eligible for support. The threshold for fixed charges is still too high with €2,000. Hairdressers, beauty specialists and neighborhood shops do not reach that threshold, but they do need our support. As far as we're concerned, they're entitled to that. The partner test in the Tozo still delivers a lot of poignant stories. Families and couples who work hard are pushed into poverty by the Cabinet in such a way, while they have had a thriving business for years. The lockdown is now taking so long that small entrepreneurs have absolutely no buffers and their own money. These entrepreneurs must also do the shopping of their turnover. You can't do that anymore. Is the cabinet going to look separately at the position of these small entrepreneurs? And are these small entrepreneurs going to get more support from the cabinet? This can be done, for our part, by removing the partner test in the Tozo and lowering the minimum limit for fixed charges to €1,500. Another group of entrepreneurs: the border workers. These are workers and entrepreneurs who work in the Netherlands and have a business, but live in Germany or Belgium. They have been sent from the locker to the wall for months, even though they feel very strongly the financial consequences of the corona crisis. They are also entitled to our support, but they are not entitled to anything, at least not to a Tozo benefit. Meanwhile, these entrepreneurs have run out of savings and are at an end. They'll report to the Chamber as well. A solution must be found for these at least more than 1,200 families. What's the Cabinet gonna do for this? Is it not possible to provide additional aid for this particular group at the municipality where the company is registered? We believe that this group, too, is entitled to do so. Finally, Mr President. The corona crisis has not only economic and financial consequences, but also major social consequences. That's what happens to a lot of people. In the case of young people, we heard it this morning from a think tank of young people, in the case of single people, in the case of children in education at home, but especially in the case of parents who have to teach and then also have to work, in the case of people who experience violence behind the door, in the case of people with disabilities, in the case of those we spoke about yesterday, and in the case of those who need emergency aid at the moment. A very large group of people experience the social consequences, not only at this time, but probably also in the coming time. Where's the social rescue plan for this group? What can the Cabinet do for this group? There have been several proposals, for example on corona leave for parents who need to combine work, care and home education, or on people with disabilities who need more guidance. I'd like an answer from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Additional financial support is needed for the small entrepreneurs, for the border workers, for all those people who fall between ships and for all those people who experience the social consequences of this enormous crisis every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Gijs... Mr. Gijs van Dijk. It's starting well today! Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the cabinet for the new corona support package of 7.6 billion. There are days when we talk about smaller amounts. I would like to point out that GroenLinks also supports this package, just like the previous packages. This is important at this time, for entrepreneurs and for employees. Nevertheless, Mr Gijs van Dijk has just said something about this when the Minister of Finance is on the radio on the morning of such an important debate and says: there are going to be cuts again, not immediately, but they are going to be there. I see the Minister is shaking a bit indignantly. I think it would be a good idea for him to explain immediately that that is not the intention. At least it was the image we got from his story at BNR. I don't think that's the image we need at this time. Mr. Chairman. Before I go any further on the economic support package, I think we should first consider the mental support package, because in our view that is necessary and lacking in the cabinet approach. With NL, for example, we have made an arrangement with which people get a career advice very quickly. I am also curious to see how this is going and whether the system can be opened up again quickly. Can we make a similar arrangement to help people mentally, so that they end up with a coach, for example? We read in the newspaper this morning that 50% of people experience stress from the lockdown. As a government, as a society, we must do something about that. If we don't do that, the consequences will be incalculable now, but also in a number of years' time. One of the things that is needed is corona leave. That's what we've been calling for for months now, and the cabinet just doesn't deliver. Meanwhile, in 20 of the 28 EU countries there is a form of corona leave, because, of course, schools are closed in many countries. Why do we manage to arrange something in all these countries to combine homework and home education, and we cannot do it in the Netherlands, I ask the Minister. Is the Minister prepared, in the event that the schools cannot open in a few weeks' time, to hope that they will, but what if, because of the corona figures, we fail to ensure that an arrangement is available instead of leaving a lot of parents in the cold again? Another thing that GroenLinks has been calling for for for a long time is a crisis income or at least ensuring that workers do not lose their jobs at this time. It's about employees. The TONK is now being developed at municipal level, but it is also aboutzzp'ers. We've talked a lot about the partner test at the Tozo. It's said to be complicated. In the first round the partner test wasn't there either in the Tozo, so are the Cabinet and Chamber willing to see if we're going to help entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, get through this difficult time? What doesn't help at this time is when your boss forces you to come to the office, when that's not really necessary. That is also why yesterday, together with Mr Van Weyenberg of D66, I sent our initiative law on the right to work at home to the Council of State as a matter of urgency. We really hope we can get it back in the next few weeks and deal with the law here. It's probably not gonna be a miracle cure in the fight against corona, it's gonna help all the bits. Mr Van Weyenberg is about to ask a few more questions about working at home and how the government can better facilitate this. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to that. Then I'll move on to the entrepreneurs. Over the last few days, we have received a lot of branding letters from entrepreneurs who are no longer in a good mood. They say, "We just can't make it. The NOW is very nice, the TVL for the fixed loads is very nice, but it is still too little." I noticed in all those letters that a kind of broad plea was made to look at the owners of the storehouses as well. This is relatively new in this debate. We have heard that in the first wave the owners of shopping houses and also of catering houses, which have been closed for months, were quite cool and that is now less so. Let me be clear on behalf of GroenLinks: we find this totally unacceptable. As a whole, we must show solidarity with each other. As a government, we are. At some points, that can be a little bit more, but as a government we send a clear signal. We've already put 60 billion more into it. Now there are big real estate entrepreneurs who say: we want to receive the full rent and if tenants then might go bankrupt, so be it. That's unacceptable. That is why I ask the Cabinet, as in Spain and Germany, to make a law that ensures that large real estate entrepreneurs give half a rent discount. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the NOW, which is now being extended to mid-year. Do the same conditions apply there as with the last NOW, so no bonuses and no winnings? Are they valid for the entire calendar year 2021? I hope the cabinet confirms that. If not, we'd be happy to table a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	That'll be one of my three interruptions in two. I welcome Mr Smeulder's plea, because it is also something I am very concerned about: landlords who do not want to move a millimeter, while we really want to get through this situation with each other. In addition to Mr Hoekstra's appeal in BNR, I read a headline in which you come up with a lot of proposals. Can we see if we can come up with a proposal where we may not arrange it for all those landlords to the end of the day, but with which we will get a better legal anchor, so that not all those small entrepreneurs have to go to court? We need to be able to fix that in one sweep.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'd love to. I see this as an outstretched hand, which I'm very happy to deal with. Look, it's really not my job to have someone who's worked hard all his life, just rented out his storehouse and needs rent income like his pension. I assume that this will be a reasonable consultation. But really big entrepreneurs who have a lot of real estate, who now want 100% of the rent and who think "about a time we are looking for new tenants" I find unacceptable. Let us see how we can reward the good, but we can also force the evil to do good through a legal instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm very happy about that. This sounds like music to me. I myself was charmed by the German proposal. Let us work together and make sure that the small landlords do not suffer, that they do not get into trouble, not even with the banks. But that something has to be done to really arrange that legal anchoring for those landlords, we are obliged to our stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	What a nice start to the debate. If we all get this kind of surprising collaboration, it's gonna be a good day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	And we'll be done by 7:00. Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, the harbor is in sight. Finally, there's perspective. The vaccines are coming way too slow, but they're coming. And with the port in sight, we have to stop each other from being wrecked at all costs. All hands on deck. It is a good thing that the cabinet comes up with a supplementary package, but it is not good that we still speak too many people, that too many people are still e-mailing us or calling us who are in great need. Mr. Chairman. I agree with a number of things that GroenLinks and the Labour Party have just mentioned, especially when it comes to leave that parents who take care of their children at home or teach their children need very much. But what we're getting a lot of reports about right now is the partner test. It is self-employed people who are obliged by the government to stop their work, in the interests of all of us, in the interests of public health, but who find a closed door when they knock on the door of the government for help. They receive €0 support, because there is a partner with an income. We have talked about this many times, but this great injustice remains. I hope that the fall of the D66 cabinet will allow us now to join the SP's proposal to remove the partner test from the Tozo, to help now to stop this great injustice and to ensure that we solve the bitter poverty that people face. That is why I very much appeal to my colleague from D66 to take that step today. The Chamber is still in operation, the Chamber is not outgoing. That's the cabinet, so we can organise it with each other today. I really hope for the support of D66, because I know that this is a very big problem for them too. They also see that this is very unjust. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the partner test, reference is often made to the TVL and the TONK. They are regulations that are particularly complicated, they are regulations that make a whole lot of people unable to claim them. For example, the TVL is about people who have no front door for their business, literally. They have a company at home, but they don't have a separate front door for their company. Can we see to the port that these people are not shipwrecked? Can we organize something for this group of people? It's very and very necessary. Mr. Chairman. There's still a lot of confusion about the TONK. It is a scheme to be implemented by the municipalities. People need to be able to knock on the door for, among other things, housing costs. I am still unclear as to how the partner's income is being looked at. I think it's delegated to the local colleges. Then we would still get a version of the Tozo, but then locally, where the income of the partner will also count, where own capital will also count. The question is, aren't we much further away from home? Don't we make things more complicated than necessary? Don't we give people much more uncertainty in this way? How do we avoid regional differences, where one municipality is more scared than the other, or distributes more widely than the other? Then we'd get crazy differences. Mr. Chairman. We talk a lot of people. Among other things, we spoke to a hairdresser here at the Denneweg, who indicated that he had a benefit and was offered a course through the UWV to become a zzp'er. He started as a hairdresser on October 1st and had to stop his work. His period at the UWV to be able to build this is only six months. He's gonna be in big trouble right now, 'cause he's gonna be empty-handed. I understand that, at the beginning of this crisis, large and wide-ranging arrangements had to be put in place. We've been here almost a year. The schemes can now be much more focused on individual problems. The question is whether this minister is willing to keep the reintegration pathways and the pathways at the UWV in mind to become a zzp'er and extend them for a period, for example, until the summer, equal to the NOW. Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of problems in the sectors. Our mailboxes are buzzing out. The driving schools say: my cars are standing still, but on paper I have turnover; I get into trouble. I just mentioned the hairdressers. In the travel industry many people do not have their own front door, but they have lost their income, have fixed burdens and are not eligible for the TVL. At festivals there is the problem of ticket guarantee funds. There are questions about the lower limit of 3,000 visitors for those ticket guarantee funds. Carnivals are also knocking on our door. The question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to look at the problems with the support measures as we now have them, to identify them and to come up with sector-specific solutions, to give everyone the insight into the port that we have and to take everyone into the final part of this crisis. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that it is not helpful if the Minister of Finance announces on the radio that the pockets are empty and that it is likely to have to be cut after the elections. Where he indicated at the beginning of the corona crisis that the bags were deep and that we would empty them completely, this minister now announces: after the elections I am empty-handed and there are going to be huge cuts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Mr Aartsen has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's with pain in the heart, but I think we can't get out of it today: a lot of entrepreneurs had a lot of abdominal pain and fear of rioting and looting idiots. They feared that their cause would also be destroyed. I can still sincerely say that we live in a society in which we do this to people like these entrepreneurs. I am glad that there will be a fund soon to advance the costs for these entrepreneurs. For many entrepreneurs these are deep black weeks. We just have to be honest about that. Pinks, shops and many other SMEs have been closed for weeks because of that terrible virus. Unfortunately, that is necessary to keep ourselves safe and healthy. The figures are slowly falling. Despite some setbacks in the vaccination, there is hope at the end of the tunnel. The finish line is finally coming in. Just like with a marathon you make sure that on that last piece to the finish there are just a few extra auxiliary posts to pull everyone through. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet has come up with a substantial extension of the support package. The starting point for the VVD is that everyone who is closed should receive support. Those people deserve that. Fortunately, this also happens for the most part, but we must not close our eyes to the people who fall outside. We need to keep a finger on the wrist all the time to see where it goes wrong. The Hague drawing board doesn't have everything. We need to keep an eye on the practice. Is the Cabinet prepared to keep doing that permanently? Today we got a lot of signals. Mr Van Dijk already spoke about the hairdressers, who asked the cabinet: when will the TVL open; can you not help us, and can you not do so faster? These are points that really raise the need for a lot of entrepreneurs. In the same category...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	This is another block; a very large block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	I think Mr Aartsen is right to make a point about small businesses. That's what I made in my input. They are at the point where they no longer have equity. The savings jars are empty. That's what I'm really worried about. The support package does not provide for this. Of course, that is not possible for the large bulk, and for the big entrepreneurs who can have it. I would like to support the smaller entrepreneurs who are now saying that the money is gone; I either have to close down or there must be additional support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u18	We can find each other in that. I am deeply concerned about that, too. We can start a whole circus on what kind of arrangement it should be, but my appeal to the cabinet is above all: make sure you have an eye for it. You mentioned the threshold amount. That's a little uncertain in the letter we got: "we're gonna see how and what." I think we really need to get this straight. What threshold is it going to? But also: when does this arrangement open? It's nice that we send letters to each other here, I say disrespectfully, but that entrepreneur wants to know when he can register and when he gets the money in his account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u19	Please continue. You were at "in the same category."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u20	The same category includes start-ups. I've been very concerned about that for the past six months. It is a good thing that the cabinet is now coming up with a first step. There will finally be a separate start-up scheme, I would like to say, because this group has been out of business for a very long time. But I am concerned that there will soon be another group of entrepreneurs who are going to fall out of the boat. Those are entrepreneurs who, for example, I say with emphasis "for example," registered at the Chamber of Commerce at the end of 2019. In the cabinet proposal they are excluded again. That's pretty crazy in itself. If you want to start a bar, you sign up at the Chamber of Commerce, but then of course you don't have the same turnover the next day. Then you're gonna apply for a hospitality license, or you're gonna set up your place and buy stuff. That didn't happen overnight. The VVD wants at least the entrepreneurs registered at the end of 2019 to be included in this scheme. We are coming up with a motion on this. But there are still entrepreneurs who are excluded, for example because they have taken over a business or because, for example, they have been registered earlier and have had to grow longer. Unfortunately, this cannot be solved by one-two-three, but I do want the cabinet to reflect the size of the group that signed up before 30 September 2019 and will therefore fall out again. I really want a clear picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u21	I saw Mr Amhaouch first. I also see Mr Bruins. I'll take it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u23	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u24	Good thing Mr. Aartsen calls them starters. I'm very worried about that, too. It is good that he calls for that date to be brought forward for three months. But in reality we see that entrepreneurs, especially catering entrepreneurs and shopkeepers, often have to wait months for municipal permits before they can open. I know an example of one and a half years. So I wonder if those three months of enlargement will help in the front. We now also have the opportunity to take the third quarter of 2020 as a simple reference to help these starters anyway, regardless of their CVK registration date? Would that be an opportunity to get an even broader view of reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u25	Two answers to that. The first is about the proposal I make. Last Thursday, I had some people crying on the phone. They said: I started on 19 December 2019, I heard at a press conference that there would be a proposal and then I read this in a letter. We need to realize that these people have enormous personal debts. They often have children at home and the water is really on their lips. With this proposal, we will at least ensure that the largest group of start-ups are now covered by this scheme at once. If we accept this as a Chamber, we will make it clear to those people that they receive this support. That's one. Mr Bruins is, of course, right about the other group. I also know the examples of the monumental farms in Limburg for which you simply have to go out for a year in order to grow them. I'm sure I'd like to take a look at that. In fact, I have all kinds of plans for that. I must also honestly say that the cabinet has said a number of times that it is difficult, complicated and difficult. But I just said: we owe it to our stand to fight for these people too, so that they too can get support in this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u26	Then, together with Mr Aartsen, I would like to look into how we can help the new group that is just about to fall over the edge to arrive at a just settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u27	Sure. I would also like to make a motion to at least map that group well. We don't know now. If it's a few hundred people, I'd say it should be fixable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u28	I recognise the debate that is taking place here between Mr Aartsen and Mr Bruins on the starters. But Mr Aartsen also mentioned the takeovers. I also know the situations of family businesses which have existed for many years, for 40 or 50 years, and which had just been taken over by family. Because that was just after June 30th, the company does not exist anymore. How does Mr Aartsen look at that? Should we take stock of all this, or should we find a practical solution? These special cases sometimes have a different legal structure. Those companies have been around for a long time. They should be entitled to TVL and should be entitled to the NOW. Can we deal with these companies in a special committee or in a committee of wise men? And can they join us if that fits in with the spirit of the arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u29	The answer of the VVD to that is: a full yes. I must add that I want more than just a motion. I'd like to hear from the cabinet that it's happening. This isn't about a newspaper article or a motion in the media. This is really about making sure these people get money into their accounts. We have to be honest that this is under pressure right now. So my answer is yes, but the cabinet must state that it can. Otherwise, we're selling dead sparrows, and that's the last thing we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u30	I'm struggling with this a little bit. The VVD is responsible for the lockdown. The lockdown now bankrupts millions of entrepreneurs. I think a bit that crocodile tears are crying here and that a show is being staged. We should probably go back to the beginning. The lockdown leads to all these entrepreneurs going bankrupt. Why don't you think along in solutions? You shout at the back that you have crying entrepreneurs on the phone and that you also have a stomachache, but why don't we just tackle the core of the case, namely the lockdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr Van Haga is making a political mistake. It's not the VVD that wants a lockdown. I don't know if you've seen that in our former election program. It's the last thing we want. It's this virus that does this. The virus makes sure that these terrible measures are needed to keep us all healthy and safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u32	This is another nice personification of the virus: "the virus lurks on us," "the virus does everything." We now know that the virus is not at all harmful and that there are all kinds of solutions, such as protecting the vulnerable or scaling up care. You didn't choose that. Now we have all kinds of measures at the back. Maybe the VVD isn't doing it alone, because the whole cabinet is doing it. If the government causes damage, will you at least agree with me that in that case 100% of the damage will have to be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u33	This happens more often in the debate. Don't tell me this virus isn't dangerous. Don't come to me with that. Please tell that to the widow and the children of Piet, my father's best mate. He died one day after Christmas. He was 54 years old. Please tell that to Jan's widow and kids, a good buddy of mine from my carnival band. He was 51 years old, Mr. Van Haga. You can come here and blame me for anything. You may do anything about the support package here, but please let us stop saying that this virus is not dangerous, that it is just a flu and that it only affects the elderly. Please do that kind of language in a podcast with Lange Frans, but don't bring that up with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u34	Don't advertise Long French.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u35	I hope that Mr Aartsen will say this to all those people who suffer from the collateral damage caused by the measures imposed by your party. You should also say this to all people who have cancer and are not being treated, to all people who cannot get bypass and to all people who do not get kidney transplants. That collateral damage is calculated, but not by your party. You're not an entrepreneur. It doesn't bother you. You're just gonna keep eating bitterballs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u36	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u37	You're gonna be eating à la carte again here at the members' restaurant. You won't notice any effect. So I think you should lower your voice and not bother me about Lange Frans. Ú is responsible for...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u38	You're gonna sit over there, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u39	Ú is responsible for these emergency measures. I think you're crying crocodile tears by throwing yourself in front of the entrepreneur now, because you're not doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr Van Haga is really throwing the entrepreneurs in the eye. I resent that, because it is people who are in a very vulnerable position because of this lockdown. Nobody does that around here for fun. No one at all. We are doing this because of that terrible virus, which is deadly, even for people under 80, I would just say to Mr Van Haga. That's why we do that. We are trying to pull these entrepreneurs through. We do that here, over and over again, over and over again. And then you blame me for not doing anything for those entrepreneurs? Please, go do that somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u42	There are also entrepreneurs who...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u43	Wait a minute. Mr. Van Haga, we've agreed on a maximum of three questions. I don't know if you were there when I agreed to meet you guys. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u44	I was there. Maybe I will be given a final remark, because this is getting a little out of hand. We are talking about a virus with an IFR of 0.23%, about collateral damage that causes far more victims than the virus itself and about entrepreneurs who are all over the top because of these measures. Then you shouldn't do: oh, oh, oh, oh, this virus is lurking on us and it's all so bad. No, you just have to compensate for the damage you're doing 100 percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u45	I'm glad I have a slightly greater empathic ability than a brick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u46	Well, I'm fine. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u47	I hope I can bring the atmosphere back a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u48	Let's try that, Mrs. Van Brenk. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u49	A lot of entrepreneurs get hit incredibly hard. We all agree. But there are also entrepreneurs who benefit extremely well from it. The question is: would the VVD feel like seeing if we can create a solidarity levy for those companies that are overly benefiting from this lockdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u50	I think that's a good question. I mean that sincerely. I'm not going to say right now: we're going to raise taxes. That's complicated. Some companies and some retailers did very well before the second lockdown and then it became in one
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u51	I can imagine that the VVD is also taking part in the creation of a fund in which such a solidarity levy could end up. People who are really incredibly damaged and do not have enough of the support...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Would the VVD feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u52	Again, I'm open to ideas. I find it difficult to say now: this is what we are going to do or not. Let's continue with this question to the cabinet. I am genuinely concerned about small shops and small catering companies in certain small villages, because it is really at the heart of some kind of viability discussion. So I'm sure I'd like to think about that. So how we're going to shape that is step two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u54	It is a good bridge to my next point: how do we ensure that we have solidarity in society? We see wonderful initiatives to help local entrepreneurs. Also from landlords we see beautiful initiatives, where discounts are given. But unfortunately I also hear a lot of other signals. Think of landlords who don't move a millimeter and stick out a leg to give rent discounts. I think that's really weird. I'm just gonna say that here. Often these are large international real estate parties. To be honest, this is also just the municipality of Amsterdam, which, as a landlord, treats entrepreneurs to help entrepreneurs. Last Sunday morning we saw our Secretary of State Mona Keijzer making a call. I would like to challenge her to ensure action and not just make an appeal. Has she called any major real estate parties yet? Has she been in contact with the municipality of Amsterdam in accordance with our parliamentary questions? That should be the first to give discounts to entrepreneurs. What are other European countries, such as Germany, doing to really tackle this problem? I would really like to see a more active role of the cabinet in this. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this virus doesn't have an agenda. So we do not know when it will be justified to relax again, but that does not mean that we should sit on our hands and do nothing at this time. We can also use this to think about a smart and especially creative reopening strategy. The cabinet has already announced this, but my appeal to the cabinet is: go round the table with the business community to come up with creative solutions in this exit strategy. Let's do this a little more creatively. I've heard some ideas. Think for example of the week and not the weekend opening of shops, because otherwise you get funshoppers and strollers. For example, on weekends, dry catering can be opened, such as restaurants. Also think about making click and collect possible, if the full opening of shops is not yet possible. I would like to know from the cabinet whether it is prepared to enter into these talks. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you. Oh, I see Mr Smeulders and Mr Stoffer. Go ahead, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u56	I haven't heard Mr Aartsen from the VVD say anything about corona leave, which has been discussed many times. We have been able to read this week that three-quarters of parents are under stress because they have to combine home education with work. Does the VVD agree that there should be corona leave? And if that is not possible within a week, should it at least be there from 9 February, should the primary schools unfortunately remain closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u57	I find that a difficult question. I can see the stress with those parents. I don't have kids of my own, but if you're on the phone with people... I see a number of ministers nodding very hard now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u58	They also need corona leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u59	I also hear it in our group of colleagues with children. That's a pinch. Those aren't very nice situations. That creates stress and problems. We have, of course, been talking about this for a very long time; we must also be honest about this. We talked about quarantine leave. We're talking about corona leave right now. I'm afraid we'll have to conclude that you can't just put this in there. The easy solutions department is closed on this part, I'm afraid. So the call to look at this, sure, but I find it hard to pin one-two-three on a measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u60	I immediately acknowledge that it is not easy, but I also see that there are several options. You can extend the care leave. You can do something with child support. That is quite generic, but very simple to implement. In the meantime, we can also see that 20 of the 28 EU countries have arranged something for this. These countries have succeeded, in very different ways and simply in line with their social security system. If the VVD is willing to push with us and say: if this situation is going to last any longer, then something really needs to be found; cabinet, together with social partners, fix it!?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u61	Yeah, fix it. I have a lot of examples and stories about problems that I say to the cabinet 'fiks it', but they must be able to be fixed. There must be a solution to that. That's what I'd like to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u62	Good argument from the VVD. It is also very nice that the VVD calls for creative thinking: how can we, practically, still open a little bit? That gives entrepreneurs a real perspective. Still, I've missed one thing. I believe that this is something that has been approached by both the VVD and many colleagues and I. There are a number of Dutch large and medium-sized retail chains that tend to be cut off at four tonnes per quarter for fixed charges and two tonnes for stocks. Those chain stores can't go out with that. There are chains that have 300-400 stores and then come at €500 to €700 per store during that period. I can't. They just say, "We're breaking up." My question to Mr. Van Aartsen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u63	Archs. Van Aartsen seems to be a chic branch of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u64	I was thinking, is it from Aartsen now? It used to be here, didn't it? Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u65	The fancy branch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u66	I think Mr. Aartsen is quite chic, too. But I'm really interested in the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u67	I brushed my shoes today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yeah, such a nice pouch. Does Mr Aartsen agree with me that we should do everything we can to see if we can come up with something creative for that? That's possible, if I understand it that way. Things came in last night that turned out to be possible at this point. Does he want to ask the cabinet with me specifically to come up with that and pick it up? Otherwise, the shopping streets will be largely empty in all those villages and cities and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u69	Again, yes to this. Of course, you can say "they're branches, big companies and retailers," but that's where people with families work. And this often has a huge impact on the viability of those shopping streets. So, yeah. I understand that the problem is in Brussels and that there are many different support frameworks. So my appeal to the cabinet is also to look more creatively at that. I do not know how this is going in some more Mediterranean countries when it comes to the European support framework, but let us really look at this. It's probably just a few months, of course; let's hope it's over soon. Of course, it's very frustrating. I can't be explained that something can't be done because of a legal construct. I always find that very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u70	I have noticed something that I wonder how Mr Aartsen looks at. Already at the start of the corona crisis some larger catering companies went bankrupt quickly, while I saw that small entrepreneurs with their own money had survived and had a hard time. Now, of course, it is because in the last ten years it has been fiscally encouraged to hang a company with debts. The result is that you can't actually absorb anything if you fast forward the money that comes in to the shareholders and then have very high debts. Does Mr Aartsen agree with me that we really need to limit this tax incentive for debt in an enterprise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u71	I think this is an interesting point to discuss once in a broader fiscal debate, because I think that the world after corona will look different than the world before corona. I can imagine that if it all goes back to normal in a moment, the problems will not have disappeared like snow before the sun. Then we will have to think together: what should we do to help entrepreneurs who are overflowing with debts? That is a major problem at the moment. That's all business, so I can't answer this one-two-three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u72	I was curious about that, because a cabinet member, the State Secretary of State for Taxation, already mentioned this line a few months ago: that he himself is considering that we should reduce this, that it should not pay to hang your company completely with debt and deduct it from profits. I was wondering if Mr Aartsen would support that line of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u73	I am not down to the exact details of taxation, but I believe that a number of things are already happening on this part. Once again, I sincerely believe that if the aid packages are no longer needed and therefore will stop, we will generally not be able to leave entrepreneurs to their fate. Then we will have to do something, even if it is only because of the debts that have been incurred at the Tax Office and at the banks, to see how we also deal with this tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr Aartsen is indeed an artist in crocodile tears. We have been going on for a year now and the starters are finally getting started. It's still unclear when: April, May, May, maybe something came up. The VVD sells that as a win, but for ten months you just let the starters go to hell. It doesn't matter whether they started in 2020 or 2019; the starters had just checked with the VVD so far and it's just a question of how they're being operated now. So my question is: what will Mr Aartsen do for the starters who started in 2019 or who started in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u75	On that first point, I do not agree with Mr Van Dijck in any case. I have been one of the few MPs here since May of last year, and I must also say that I have drawn attention to this. Fortunately, there were more and more colleagues who brought this up as well. I have been in close contact with a number of start-ups since September. If you are not convinced by me, they can convince you that we have been concerned for a very long time with all kinds of proposals, with parliamentary questions and with debate. In addition, of course, the honest story is that the department was and still is easy solutions, and that this is so complex that you have to figure this out properly. I'm very glad we can do that now. We can now at least help these starters for the last quarter 2019. As far as I am concerned, we are going to do the same for the group outside, not with a dead sparrow, but with a real solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr Aartsen may have been worried about the starters, but nothing ever happened for the starters. You could also have suggested: the starters could indicate how much rent they pay and we refund it; the starters can indicate to what extent they make staff costs and we reimburse them. I've never seen any concrete proposals and motions from your hand. You've always accepted that it's a complex, but that doesn't help starters. If it's complex, they still have a big problem and they're still going bankrupt. In other words, you did ask for attention for the starters, but nothing ever happened for the starters. Now you'll come with the starters before the end of 2019, but you'd only start a business at the beginning of 2019. Or you could have started something after July 2020. In other words, you're still leaving them in the cold, all those starters. They still haven't seen a penny. It's a scandal that you're now pretending to stand up for the starters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u77	No, because we want to help them too. But putting it in the media or filing a motion does not automatically solve the problem of those people. We have to be honest about that, too. The proposals that Mr Van Dijck has just described, I have put forward time and time again even with starters to the cabinet. I didn't necessarily do that in a motion, but just constructively thinking about helping this country, I made those proposals on it. The execution organisation rightly says: yes, boys, you can, but then these starters get their money once in 2025. Then you can have it put in the paper and make a nice show, but that's a dead sparrow. I don't think that's fair to those starters. We just have to do things here that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u78	In conclusion, Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u79	Well, a dead sparrow is when you say "I'm showing off for you guys" and then don't get over it. For a year, the starters haven't had a penny. Another question, I believe, is about the zzp'ers. What does the VVD do? We have over 1 millionzzp'ers in the Netherlands. As of March, they are also on black seed, they no longer have sales. There arezzp'ers who earned €5,000, €6,000 per month and who suddenly have nothing because of the lockdown and all the measures. The wife of thatzzp'er or the man who happens to have a small job for a few days in the week and earns €1,500 or €1,200, then earns too much so that thezzp'er gets nothing at all. You've left 1 millionzzp'ers in the cold for a year, next to the starters. What is your response in this debate? It has already been proposed that the partner test should be celebrated, a proposal that we have already made a few times. Are you going to join us now? You're no longer dependent on all that coalition discipline in dropping the partner test in the Tozo?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u80	You're acting like that coalition compulsion is so bad, but that's not so bad. But you have to do things that can. I think the following is a bit of a pity, and I mean that sincerely. I mean, this is a big package that we're all working on very hard. A little bit is now being done as if we were deliberately dropping all kinds of people outside the ship. I have to be honest, I don't think that's right. This is a huge package, there are points that are far from perfect, and we ask the Cabinet to resolve that. The same goes for thezzp'ers. But it has to be possible. Because once again: we can present all kinds of dead sparrows here, but then you are ultimately raising false expectations, and that is not fair to me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u81	In conclusion, Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u82	It's got to be possible? You're the party of "computer says no," it can't be. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! The first Tozo didn't have a partner test, and it was fine. You gave eachzzp'er €1,050 per month to compensate for the damage suffered, and that was a slap. Why can't the partner key be deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u83	Because the churches say to us, if we ask them, it is not feasible. Then we can stand on our heads here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u84	And it could...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u85	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u86	Then you must be there. We can get on top of each other, but that doesn't mean we can do it at once. We have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u87	I hear the VVD here saying that it is not that something is deliberately taken from people. Well, that is precisely the case with the introduction of the partner test. It has been introduced to purposely take away their support measures from people with an income partner. So, yes, that's been deliberate. The first support package didn't include that partner test. So yes, it's feasible to delete that partner test again. That's a choice. The call to the VVD is to acknowledge, now that the cabinet has fallen, that we are failing people and that people have deliberately been deprived of their support, while the government demands them to stop their work. The call to the VVD is to stand up for these people now and together with the SP, the PVV and all others who want to abolish that partner test, so that this injustice ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u88	I am prepared to acknowledge that people are indeed excluded from this scheme and that these are problems. Over and over again, we look for solutions. I am the first to admit that the scheme is not always 100% perfect for everyone. But I also have a very long list of things that we would like to do with each other, which we should be honest with the entrepreneurs by saying: we simply cannot do that, we do not make that up. We have to be honest with the entrepreneurs by saying that not everything can be done, then it gets stuck and then you still get the lid on the nose. Then I'd rather be honest and look for alternative solutions than say that we're just gonna do that, and that turns out to be a dead sparrow in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u89	The VVD has absolutely no idea what she's talking about. You have no idea what you're talking about. You say the municipalities can't do it. Non-executing a partner key is easier, because you don't have to do that key. I note that the VVD has absolutely no idea what this is about. She says it's not feasible, but it's easier, because you don't have to do that test. For months she has allowed this great injustice to exist, which means that someone who is a photographer or day president for example and has a partner who works in home care or education and who has to stop working for all of us, knocks on the door at the municipality and gets €0's support. You're responsible for that. You show here that you have absolutely no idea what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u90	No, it's not because Mr. Van knows it. It is because the municipalities say it, because the Secretary of State for Social Affairs says it regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u91	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u92	Gentlemen!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u93	We have received a letter, at least the First Chamber has received a letter, from the cabinet in which it is ready-to-use on behalf of Divosa and the VNG. I can show you that letter in a minute. A copy of that letter was sent to the House of Representatives. If you don't believe me, I'll invite the Cabinet again to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u94	Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr. Chairman. What a nice gesture from the Eindhoven entrepreneurs to donate a new station piano right after the riots! That's the power of society in bizarre times. It is also a good thing that the cabinet quickly came up with a compensation fund for looted shops, because they really cannot have this. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is pleased that the cabinet has listened carefully to the worst distress calls of entrepreneurs and has come up with this massively comprehensive support package. Companies and the catering industry receive more and longer support, such as the significantly increased TVL and NOW. More companies will have access to support, such as start-ups and companies in the manufacturing industry and agriculture and horticulture. Tax regimes are generous and real, and the event sector is given a guarantee fund. At the same time, we also know that we cannot help everyone and everything today. I have spoken to many entrepreneurs andzzp'ers with and without emotion, and I know that this message can cause pain and disappointment. I'm very honest with you about that. At the same time, we also see a number of bottlenecks and we have suggestions and proposals to make a number of improvements with a human dimension. For example, the travel industry, where small entrepreneurs in particular have been facing high cancellation costs that are not covered for more than a year. This also applies to contact professions, such as hairdressers and beauticians with staff, who are not allowed to work now. Many of them had just enough turnover before the start of the lockdown in December and remained stuck at a turnover loss of 20% to 25%. They do not achieve that 30% and therefore do not receive a TVL, but they are now facing financial problems due to wages and fixed costs that they cannot cope with themselves. I see in UWV decisions that the promised NOW will be paid over three months for the fourth quarter in December. This has to be different and faster. Mr. Chairman. Then the smallzzp'ers in the contact professions or the driving school holders, such as Rob from Helmond, who by the partner test are not eligible for the Tozo. How does the TONK, the new scheme, work out for them so that they can continue to pay the personal and business bills at the end of the month? The new start-up scheme is limited to start-ups that started between 1 January and 30 June 2020. I fully agree with what Mr Aartsen said, not 'Van Aartsen', so I do not need to repeat that further. As a result: this also applies to starters who are not starters. If you have taken over a good running shoe store after 30 June 2020 in the context of company succession or if you have changed the legal structure of your 40-year-old company, you will not be eligible for both UWV and RVO counters. Is it possible to extend the period so that you can submit Q3 of 2020 as a reference period? Or better yet, can a small committee be set up to look at special exceptions which, according to the farmers' understanding, are really in the spirit of the regulation? We'll do it together, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u96	I hear the CDA mention a whole series of problems that entrepreneurs run into. Indeed, a lot of people get far too little or no compensation at all. The point made by the President of the Netherlands was that if the doors are closed, the wallet must be opened. I want to know from the CDA what solution the CDA has. What else would you want? Can we maybe go to the 100%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u97	Fortunately, thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of companies are being helped this year. The support package now before us is an aid package of as much as 7.3 billion. We've made room for the TVL to go up to 85%. We have increased the retail storage, for stocks, from a small amount to 21%. So don't tell me we don't meet the entrepreneurs. Is everyone being helped? No. That is what I said in my speech. We'll never be able to help everyone 100%. I think Mrs Van Brenk will report that, too. Nor can we reimburse 100% of all expenses. We're gonna have to see how we get through this crisis together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u99	Then check on the NOW. As far as is known, the Netherlands has the strictest state aid regime for COVID-19. This is noticeable at the NOW, where from the receipt of €125,000 grant audit engagement is mandatory. As a result, there are high audit and monitoring costs for sometimes up to three schemes: the NOW 1, NOW 2 and NOW 3. Could this knowledge, which has now been acquired in a good period of time, be used more wisely than a year? Then we don't have to charge them. Since 1 January, municipalities have to provide support tozzp'ers, for example to help them from work to work or to adapt the earning model. We read more and more often that the municipalities are not ready, not even for the debt relief for thezzp'ers. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There will be a scheme for specific costs of agriculture and horticulture. How does this work out for the free calf farmers? Has this solved the accounting problems? Are they getting access to the TVL now? I also ask the Minister: is the calf's love back? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to an end. We are very concerned about what the shopping streets throughout the country, especially in the regions, will look like after corona. Branch stores and local entrepreneurs wear this. What European arrangements do allow certain retail outlets such as the Scapinos to be catered for? What consideration has been made in this regard? Mr. Chairman. Then the border entrepreneurs. Zzp'ers who live in Belgium or Germany but enter into business in the Netherlands are still not eligible for Tozo life support, nor for a benefit in their country of residence. The Netherlands was talking to the European Commission about this. We know that the Commission has recently obtained an opinion from experts from MoveS network. Can we get that advice? Mr. Chairman. There's money available for the fairgrounds that apparently doesn't get loose yet. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the support, the main question remains: how are we going to organise perspective? This is something other than offering perspective. Think of click-and-collect for the retail trade and the re-opening of the contact professions as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the question of whether or not there will be a Pinkpop in Landgraaf this year. The guarantee will start ten days later. I'd like a response from the Minister whether or not he's going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you. I have Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u101	It is true that it is a question of perspective. After this health crisis, how do we proceed with our country? We now know from the previous crisis, which had a different nature, that cutting our public services and putting people on the line is not the best recipe for getting out of the crisis. So I ask Mr Amhaouch how we should get out of this crisis. By investing, as the Labour Party and several other parties suggest? Or should we cut back on what Mr Hoekstra told BNR this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u102	This crisis is going to take a little longer, so I would like to see how we can manage the crisis and offer perspective. "Perspective bidding" lingers for a long time. I would like the cabinet to see how we can organise perspective. That actually starts today. What tests can you do? Can the hairdressers, so the contact professions, indeed open on 8 February under certain circumstances? I'd like to see that. People aren't just depressed. They sometimes look depressed when they haven't been to the hairdresser for a long time. Back to your question whether we should invest or cut back: now, at the moment, we are investing in our SMEs, in the shopping streets, in the manufacturing industry, in agriculture and horticulture. Why? Because we know that we need these companies to make this country economically strong again in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u103	That's where we'll find each other. In this period, over the next few months, we need to invest more in these companies and not let people fall apart. But then there is the political question: what are we going to do when we are all vaccinated? Then it will really not be the case that our country is fully ready to re-engage the economy, that businesses will be full and that people will feel certain again. As far as I am concerned, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, that requires a government that says: we are not letting you go, we are going to invest in a higher legal minimum wage in the coming years, in the economy, in all kinds of innovation. Can we find the CDA there by our side?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u104	The CDA, which we say in our election programme too, is keen to invest and innovate out of this crisis. We will also keep our word. We will also take those companies with us. When the lockdown is over, hopefully, whatever Mr Aartsen has said, companies will still be in debt, companies will have to pay back tax money or companies may have to pay back too much received NOW money. Let's deal with that coulantly and let's give those companies real oxygen. Does that mean that we should not put our housekeeping book in order for infinity? That's a whole different story. In my view, all the parties here should, in the long term, make sure that, in the Netherlands, our housekeeping book is back in order. But first things first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u105	In an interim sense, Mr Amhaouch mentioned Scapino, retail companies and so on. In fact, my question to Mr Amhaouch is somewhat along the lines of what I asked Mr Aartsen earlier. Does he think there should be a solution for these large and medium-sized retail chains in the Netherlands with 100, 200 or 300 branches, which are now simply falling over? I heard it a little bit in the middle of something. I thought, "I think this is good." But I want to know explicitly. Does he think that the cabinet should make every effort and also see what can be done from Brussels so that these companies do not fall over and do not have these shopping streets empty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u106	A brief response, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u107	This is an important point. It's important what the future of our shopping streets is going to look like. I'm from the region myself. Also in the North Limburg region, in Peel and Maas, you can see that local entrepreneurs cooperate with branches, whether that is the HEMA, the Blokker or the Scapino. If we don't do something now... Those shops, those branches, are covered by the scheme, but if you have 250 stores and the cap is 300,000, you will indeed get €1,000 per store. In my opinion, with a sense of farming, with a human dimension, we need to see how we can help these companies. You don't want all those shops in all the villages in the Netherlands to go down immediately, because then we're back to square one. If I may, Mr President, without making false promises, I would very much like to know what European arrangements will make that possible and what it will cost. Then we, or the Cabinet, can take a decision on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u108	I know the CDA as a family party. Many families are incredibly hard at the moment, because they have to combine home education with work. Three-quarters of the parents are under stress. At present, we are one of the few countries in the EU that have no form of corona leave. Does the CDA consider it important as a family party to have such a corona leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u109	As CDA SME spokesperson, I would say that corona leave should actually be the closing point. I would like to know first from the cabinet in the next week how quickly primary schools will be opened, because that is better than corona leave. That's priority number one. We are not against corona leave in principle; that can be an interim solution. But it could soon become a bureaucratic solution. Who's gonna pay for that? If we just leave that with the employers, we won't get there. If you're just gonna put it in the government, you're not gonna get there. Do the social partners, the employers and employees, come out of that together? So as far as priorities are concerned, I would say to the cabinet'see if it is possible for primary schools to open', because I recognise the problem. Parents go crazy and crazy with the kids at home. The older kids aren't allowed to play sports, mom and dad have to work at home, and that's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u110	It's nice that the CDA recognizes the problem and even indicates that parents are going crazy and crazy. The problem is that this cabinet doesn't do anything to solve that problem. We all hope that the primary schools will open and that it will not be necessary. The problem is, we don't know. What I'm a little afraid of is that we're back here in three weeks, the primary schools are still closed. We hope not, but we don't know. Everybody says, "Yes, but now we really don't" and then we say to each other: shouldn't we have told the cabinet three weeks ago that they should be taking care of the corona leave so that it's possible? Is the CDA prepared to support our call to ensure that, in the event that primary schools do not open up a corona leave so that those families in particular are made a little easier to live?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u111	I think we'll be told next week what the cabinet's gonna do with the schools. Should there really be a negative opinion, we are certainly open to looking at the concrete proposals. I'm assuming that the Cabinet has also looked into what it means when we start organizing corona leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I would like to urge everyone to keep the interruptions short, as well as the answers. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS sees a number of welcome extensions in the new package of measures for support for entrepreneurs. It is wise to leave the descent path, but is the commandment appropriate now? Support if entrepreneur but still month by month thousands of euros are lacking. If it lasts longer, and it lasts longer, it is a dangerous combination. The water is now on the lips of many entrepreneurs, large and small. Wage costs for own account are becoming increasingly unbearable. Hires and fixed charges can no longer be paid. Stock costs are getting heavier and more and more invested on saved money or built-up pension. Despite all possible advance aid, there is a steadily growing debt mountain. Mr. Chairman. That's why we want to thank the two entrepreneurs who let us look into their household books. It shows what they run into. These two examples are a barbershop here in The Hague and a café in the centre of Utrecht. The barbershop here in The Hague belongs to a single woman. It only receives the Tozo, an allowance for the self-employed, a benefit of over €1,000, but the fixed charges of its own households already amount to €1,240. And then there's still food to eat, and then the cost of the storehouse will come back on top. The landlord wouldn't give a discount, by the way. The result is: ever further in debt, no old age provision. The savings fund is empty and may now be waiting at the end for bankruptcy and a self-employed person in the direction of special assistance. And then the cafe owner, who finds the title "Meeting Fixed Charges" really misleading. After all, they do not look at the permanent burden of the entrepreneur, he thinks. The fixed charges of the café are utilities, insurance and rent and together amount to €5,821 per month and they receive a percentage of the turnover. That amounts to €6.510 per quarter. Nearly two months of fixed charges are therefore on their own account. Here the landlord has given 25% discount on the rent. The cabinet had given €2,500 one time and a loan of €10,000 at a low interest rate, but you can see that the real costs are far from being met. If you let these two examples and the examples given by the government itself work on you, then we do not understand why the Secretary of State for Social Affairs bases his optimistic expectation that the majority of companies with current policies, thus continuing to grow debt, will survive the crisis. How is the cabinet going to ensure that there will soon be enough solvent companies for a strong economic recovery? How will the cabinet help companies to strengthen equity? And isn't the support package going to be a leaky lifeboat? The banks are now turning on the screws, especially with many smaller SME entrepreneurs. They are perfectly viable under normal circumstances, but now more than ever depend on state aid. Looking at the examples in the letter, we find the subsidy for 100% turnover loss in the example of a hairdresser after reviewing the new package really didn't get much better. Especially when you consider that these people have been interning for almost a year, you understand that the rack is out. The question is how small entrepreneurs get that money really and quickly into their accounts. We also believe that the Tozo should become more cooperative; that was also the case. Get that partner test out right now. We also believe that there should be no partner test for the TONK. And make sure that people don't have to eat everything first. That's asking for trouble. Will the Minister ensure that the TONK is quickly operational in all municipalities and does not differ too much in terms of content per entrepreneur? Small entrepreneurs are now the victims of the lower limit of €3,000. Whether that turns out to be negative has yet to be investigated. When are we gonna hear about that? A quarterly arrangement will also be detrimental. There's no other way? I haven't heard anyone talk about it yet, but this also affects larger companies, such as Blokker and Van der Valk. A lot of organizations are just incredibly short. Blokker shows that it receives six tonnes of support with this package, but that three shops can be kept in the air while they have 860. In short, we can see that other European countries are doing much better. What's the backup? Mr. Chairman. I'm running out of time because there's still a lot to say, but I had one more question. Will the TONK provide a solution for retired entrepreneurs who are still in serious trouble? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u115	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet still has deep pockets. That's a good thing. A lot of extra support is being given to entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, I say this: unfortunately, this is still very much needed. The SGP is positive that a solution has been found for start-ups. If this can be extended somewhat, as colleagues have just asked, for example for entrepreneurs who started at the end of 2019, we can make it even better. It is also a good thing that the tax deferral period is extended to 1 July. So let me say in advance that the SGP supports this package. Because it just looks good. But there are still some points of improvement, as far as we are concerned. What entrepreneurs need, above all, at the moment is perspective, a prospect of better times. The cabinet cannot guarantee that, of course, because the virus is out of control as people. But I speak to many entrepreneurs from the hospitality and retail sector who have no idea under what conditions they will be open, whenever they will be. Anyway, I understand that one of the next few days an exit strategy will come out. To what extent does this strategy also provide a perspective for our catering companies and the retail sector? Will the cabinet please make sure they don't line up in the back? Mr. Chairman. We must also give entrepreneurs the opportunity to continue to do so if this can be justified. The SGP is therefore in favour of the possibility of buying by appointment. This is, of course, done under conditions, for example that up to two people from one household may be invited to the store at the same time. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to give entrepreneurs this opportunity. I am also considering a motion on this point. As a result, the following. We see that many products that are normally purchased from local entrepreneurs are now purchased online from large suppliers. I've heard about click and collect before. Is the Minister prepared to at least give entrepreneurs the opportunity to offer that take-out function, so that people can order products from their local shopkeepers in their own home and then pick them up themselves, of course in a responsible way? I think that's the least we can do. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Brenk thought it hadn't been discussed yet, but I've interrupted the VVD and the CDA twice about companies with a lot of branches. I won't mention the names, but they've passed before. Mrs Van Brenk also mentioned a few. The increase in the maximum fee is a good thing for a lot of entrepreneurs, but for these types of entrepreneurs, so large retail chains with multiple branches, it does not offer any relief. With that maximum concession for an entire chain of shops with dozens to sometimes hundreds of branches, things just go wrong. Then you end up at 400 shops at about €500 per store. We must prevent these types of shops from disappearing from the street, because then the shopping streets will be empty. How are we going to solve this problem? My question to the ministers is therefore very specific: is it possible, for example, to apply a maximum fee per branch, or to come up with another tailor-made solution for these retail chains and these branches? It may be at the edges of things from Brussels, but in other countries they do so too. After all, it is about the shopping streets, about jobs and about very ordinary shops. We just don't want to miss it later. I'd really like to get a reaction to that, a serious one. I'm considering a motion on this point. Then there's the calf sector. The CDA has already spoken about the fact that the corona crisis has given the agricultural sector an economic edge. I would like to draw particular attention to calf farming, with turnover losses of up to two tonnes on various family farms. Because the turnover is high, but the margins are very small, the 30% TVL threshold is often not just reached, but very thick red numbers are written. And then you have to count that 2019 has been a bad year in this sector. The SGP therefore calls for customisation, for example to lower the threshold specifically for this sector. Finally, Mr President. I hear from many entrepreneurs that they are really positive about the speed with which aid measures have been introduced or adapted. That helps a very large part of them. Yet entrepreneurs continue to fall between shore and ship, such as hairdressers and some of thezzp'ers. The TONK is a nice tool for this, but its effect is a long time overdue. My question to the Minister is how it stands. Do municipalities have more clarity about, for example, the allocation key of the 130 million allocated for this purpose or the frameworks within which this money can be paid out? Will municipalities be given the spaces and the possibilities to give their own interpretation of this scheme? Quite specifically: when dozzp'ers get this support deposited in their accounts? Because that's what it's all about in the end. (NL) Mr President, all in all. Many entrepreneurs have real problems with their liquidity. I think this has come by before. They just don't have any more financial buffers. Is there sufficient urgency for banks to deal with this problem? If not, please map it again and, for example, call on landlords, just as is done in Germany, to deal generously with the financial problems that entrepreneurs have. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead. Oh, no, wait a minute. We're just negotiating lunch break. Then you know that, too. We are going to finish the first term and then suspend for an hour, so that the directors can also prepare themselves for answering the questions. Then we shall proceed after the votes. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u117	Thank you, Mr President. We are a few weeks away and many entrepreneurs are getting closer to their demise. 68,000 restaurants are closed and more than 86,000 shops are closed. 45,000 hairdressers are closed. 17,000 beauty salons are closed. 1,500 gyms are closed. Bowling centers, sports parks, swimming pools and cinemas: everything is closed. And our beautiful carnival tradition is now nothing left. Mr. Chairman. In these sectors, millions of people work together with two million entrepreneurs to get bread on the shelf, to feed their children and to save some money for their retirement. These basic rights, the right to work and the right to do business have been taken from us by this cabinet. We have also been deprived of the right to build, to grow, to aspirate and to be successful. Everything is taken away by a cabinet that does not consider the collateral damage when setting up the corona measures. The result is an attack on property and property and a destruction of SMEs. And the Prime Minister is laughing at us for doing this, so we can build it back better: Build Back Better. This is a blow to the face of all entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. We don't have to be afraid of the corona virus with an IFR of 0.23%. What we really need to fear is a government that violates our fundamental rights, and that is now happening on a large scale. Even the WHO has indicated that a lockdown is not the right tool. The damage is catastrophic and that is why we are discussing the extension of this aid package today. The basic rule should be: if the public authorities cause damage, that damage must be compensated 100%. Why isn't this the basic rule? So far there have been thousands of entrepreneurs who suffer a lot of damage, but not a penny. For the entrepreneurs who get a few crumbs, this is often a drop on the glowing record. Mr. Chairman. The bureaucracy is appalling. I have drawn attention to this many times, but the bureaucratic rot is deep in the system. Minister Wiebes hid behind the ICT system. He said, "computer says no." Mr Van Dijk has just mentioned this. It is a huge challenge for Minister Van 't Wout to resolve this in a humane way. Mr. Chairman. There are many abuses in the various aid measures and I therefore confine myself to a selection. Mr. Chairman. There are many abuses in the various aid measures and I therefore confine myself to a selection. First of all, the start-ups. Does the Minister agree with me that starters at the TVL often fall between shore and ship? The definition of a starter is unclear, the SBI problem has not been solved and the discussion about the reference period is Kafkaesque. Why is it not possible, for example, to insert a hardness clause into the TVL scheme, so that there is room for some customization? An application for the TVL cannot be submitted if the conditions are not met. As a result, there is no possibility of an objection or a court-martial. Does the Minister agree that a hardness clause would also solve this problem? Mr. Chairman. Many companies can now write off their stock because of the lockdown. Why is the stock fee linked to the right to TVL? Could a hardness clause be introduced here too, which could possibly provide some relief? Mr. Chairman. I would then like to hear from the Minister why the SME test was introduced in previous schemes. Damage is damage; then it doesn't matter if you have one store or 50 stores in a group. Beautiful Dutch companies are going down, because apparently they are too big for the weak bureaucratic rules. I call Blokker, Van der Valk Hotels, Sissy-Boy, Leen Bakker, Only for Men, Big Bazar, Intertoys and so on. It is an absolute misconception that the entire wholesale business consists solely of companies with wealthy owners and foreign private equity. The beautiful family business Ziegs/Scapino has 277 shoe shops and employs 2,900 employees, but the TVL now has a maximum of 4 tonnes and a maximum of 2 tonnes at the OVGD. That must therefore be divided into 277 stores. Several people have already drawn attention to it, but this is an impossible task, isn't it? How can such a group be shut down on the instructions of this cabinet and survive without reasonable compensation? Mr. Chairman. Much of the pain is with small self-employed. For example, there are 17,000 beauty salons, many of which receive no support whatsoever, because, for example, the partner has an income above the level of assistance. Why can't we solve the poignant cases that result from this by deleting the partner test, which has also come out several times already, or at least by first balancing the company's loss with the partner's income? If the balance is negative, shouldn't we be entitled to the Tozo? Mr. Chairman. Driving school holders and tennis trainers have no workspace elsewhere. They're either in a car or on the tennis court. Then why is this included as a hard condition to qualify for the TVL? Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs have always assumed their responsibilities and can be very open without the risk of contamination. The best support is therefore the removal of the lockdown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are many entrepreneurs and many of their employees and many self-employed people in the water. I sometimes have to think of those images from films, in which someone is underwater and only with a thin straw can just surface to get some air. We are in that sense in this corona crisis in dark times, also in relation to what this means for very workers and many entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the support package has been expanded in this increased and extended lockdown is only inevitable. It's wise, too. At the same time, the realization remains that we will never solve everything. We cannot help everyone, no matter how much we all want it, and no matter how hard it is being worked on. I would like to express once again my deep appreciation for all those people in the government executive services who are helping to implement these arrangements as well as they can, and who we ask each time to do something about the remaining problems. It's important and it's necessary, and my appreciation for it is great. Mr. Chairman. I'll start working at home. I think it would be a good idea if we really free up some money to support this even more. Apart from the initiative law of D66 and GroenLinks, I think that's a good thing. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The 7.5 billion additional support also includes a guarantee fund for events and festivals. That was urgently needed. But I have two more questions. Today we also received a letter from the Task Force on Cultural and Creative Sectors, with concrete bottlenecks. Would the cabinet still like to talk to them about how to tackle as many of these bottlenecks as possible? Probably not everything can, but how much can it be? Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already mentioned click and collect. I'd like to take another look at this for the bookshops. What's in there? We now know what the cabinet said was not possible before, also from corona debates, but what can be done: click and collect, isn't it open? It's nourishment for our souls, after all. I would like to dwell on a lot of small entrepreneurs, self-employed people who are now often caught between the shore and the ship, a whole group of whom currently has no work and income. The cabinet is doing a number of things that I think are sensible. Take the hour criterion in the self-employed deduction. That sounds very technical, but the fact that they are not able to work now does not mean that they will not be able to receive a deduction later on. It is right that this measure has been re-implemented. I also read that there is a higher minimum amount in the TVL, and a lower threshold. It is still unclear how low that threshold is going to be. There seems to be some risk involved, too. Wouldn't it be good to just agree that this threshold is reduced to €1,500, for example? I have already heard a number of colleagues argue in favour of this. Mr. Chairman. The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten previously indicated that the partner test could not be obtained from the Tozo. I'd like another confirmation. I asked myself yesterday. I'll get that back. But I think it would be good to hear from the cabinet once again that the aldermen and the VNG say it can't be done. So I'd like another response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u120	I took the letter that was sent to the First Chamber. It doesn't say it can't be done. In that it is said that the execution technically would lead to some extra effort if you turned off the partner key in the Tozo 3. Would D66 simply instruct the government to take that partner test as soon as possible, so that it can no longer be applied? By doing so, we do not ask municipalities to take an additional action, except for the action to disable that partner test, but rather to save municipalities from the action they now have to take, namely to check the partner's income.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u121	Nevertheless, I have really understood from the VNG that it is not feasible. But let us not discuss it. I am asking this question to the cabinet: is it indeed not feasible? That was why the cabinet chose the TONK. That's another abbreviation, but in the end, I don't think that makes people shit: they want to see euros to help them through this black age. The TONK has to do that. But I want another confirmation that it really isn't possible. I assume that, according to the aldermen, it is really not possible, as I understood, among other things, Mr Groot Wassink in Amsterdam. But again, let's ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u122	You can finish, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u123	Indeed, I read a number of objections in this letter: staff should be deployed, forms should be taken offline and others should be posted online. But in my opinion, we decide what is necessary here and then ask municipalities to carry out what is necessary within the possibilities. It is necessary that these people receive income support. I've also gone into the TONK for a while. It is not yet entirely clear, but also the income of the partner, namely to be able to pay the housing costs, and the assets outside pension assets are at risk of being counted for the right to the TONK. That is not a solution for this very large group, where it is really poignant what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u124	Again, I ask the question to the cabinet. I understand that the VNG says: "Don't do it to us, we can't do it, let us offer the TONK tailor-made for the very group Mr Van Kent and D66 are so worried about. Self-employed persons are not eligible by the partner test while they do have to pay their rent or mortgage. If all these people are going to be helped, I ask the Minister with Mr Van Kent. I want a very generous arrangement, which is exactly a solution. This arrangement is not yet in place, so will it really open as soon as possible? We must help a lot of self-employed people, but also other flex workers who fall between shore and ship. And indeed, Mr Van Kent points out: why is there a capital test in this TONK, so I ask the cabinet? We do not do this in the Tozo; we are quite rightly abandoning it now. Isn't it reasonable to take the power key out of the TONK as well? Mr. Chairman. I also want a firm confirmation that the amount of 130 million is not leading. The congregations say that they can help generously all those who are trapped. But if they don't, they should get more money. I'd like an explicit confirmation from the rulers. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to talk about the fixed burden support. There is now a maximum amount of subsidy. This seems to be due to state aid rules, but I, too, have received a lot of reports from retail chains which are therefore excluded. In other countries, it would have been possible to find a solution to this problem. Is the cabinet looking for those roads? Mr. Chairman. I am glad that there has finally been an arrangement for start-ups. We have got it with blood, sweat and tears; I am looking in particular at Mr Aartsen. It's been asked for from this room all the time. I think we should realise that we are asking a lot of questions about the implementation, but I think it is a good thing that we succeeded, so I would also like to thank you for that. But the entrepreneurs who registered with the Chamber of Commerce in the last quarter of 2019 and then did not earn a penny are indeed excluded. Isn't there a sleeve that can't be adjusted? My group would be in favour of that. Like I said before, do something about that threshold. It's now in the letter: we're investigating if the threshold can be lowered. As far as I'm concerned, the threshold has to be lowered. Landlords, make your contribution. That goes for the big ones, but I also come across some smaller landlords who in response to the question "can I pay a few weeks later?" Or "can something be done about the rent?" Answer with a note: if you ask me that one more time, I'll tell Stante pede your rent. Shame on you, Mr. Chairman. Shame on you. What can the Cabinet do about it? I have also heard Mr Aartsen announce a motion. Finally, Mr President. What's the perspective after July 1st? The arrangements will not be phased out until 1 July. Quite rightly; a good choice from the cabinet. But what are we gonna do after that? Does thinking about that start yet? I think that's necessary, because it won't be sunshine in one go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Let's see, Mr. Smeulders, this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u126	You can still do this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u127	Well, that's what I'm talking about. Let's talk to my clerk. How much do we have? Last one, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u128	Sure. The Christian Union is lucky to be the last coalition party. One coalition party! The subject is also the same: it is about corona leave. I have not heard Mr Van Weyenberg say anything about this, but perhaps that is also because he was counting on this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u129	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u130	I know D66 as a party that considers combining work and care and a relaxed society very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u131	You always start with a nice introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yeah, because I'm really trying to get it done. I have a quick question. Does D66 also want to support corona leave, especially if the primary schools can't open in a few weeks' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u133	I'm very happy with that last addition. Of course, we want to get together the sweetest thing that will open up primary schools in two weeks' time. I know how hard it is. I also appeal once again to a lot of employers that I actually expect them to get along just fine with their employees without having to regulate it legally. But I also understand your question, because I don't think that goes well everywhere. The Minister has spoken to social partners and I understand that no solution has been found, but have there been any variants on the table, for example the Belgian variant you mentioned and where I believe 70% will be paid on leave? Has that variant been on the table? Would that be feasible? I understand it needs to be ready if the primary schools are to be closed any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr Smeulders no longer has any interruptions, but his question was: what do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u135	I think I just said that, Mr President. In my view, I saw Mr Smeulders be much happier with the answer than you, but that aside. The crux is that I have said that I would like something to be thought of if it is possible, if the primary schools do not open. I thought I said that, Mr President, but thank you for the opportunity to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u136	I wanted to see if we could table a motion to that effect together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u137	Okay, but we can do that outside the interrupting microphone. Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Yeah, we got bilaterals here, too. Mr Tony van Dijck has the floor on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to mention all those entrepreneurs who have fallen victim to the riots of the last few days. They're already in heavy weather because of the lockdown, and now they're also getting visitors from a few asos and the case is being looted. How much misery can a man have? I am pleased that the cabinet has guaranteed all the damage suffered, in so far as it is not reimbursed by insurers, and that it is recovered from the rioters. I particularly hope that the latter will be made real work, because often rioters get away with it too easily. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the support package. It is right that entrepreneurs should be supported in these difficult times. After all, it is beyond their fault that they have to close down and hardly turn sales anymore. The only question today is: is it enough? The PVV has been of the opinion for a long time that if you shut down companies from government, you have to compensate them 100%. 100% lockdown means 100% compensation as far as we're concerned. And no half-baked complicated arrangements like this. The water now stands entrepreneurs to the lips, the fat is off the bones and the savings are gone. They've borrowed everywhere to survive, family, friends, at the bank, but it's not enough. They see their dream, their cause that they've worked hard for for years, go down. They're grateful for the government's support, sure, but it's not enough. Every month there's gotta be money, lots of money. I have taken the examples of the rulers. This also shows that there is a need for money. It's not like that's little money. That café owner must soon match €10,000 in the first quarter, but also the entrepreneur of the clothing store is €8,000 short. And so on and so on. It is not a change, it is €10,000, €8,000, for the cinema €31,000 and for the hotel €115,000 that they have to match. And we're out of money. Some of them have been closed for 11 months. The banks don't give at home either. The family's empty. All the jars are empty. And yet they are asked to fit in. With current policies, I'm afraid, we're about to have a tsunami of bankruptcies. Already, the UWV predicts a loss of almost 200,000 jobs thanks to corona. And how is that going to happen in the second half of the year if the debts are to be repaid? Debts are now being built up at the Tax Administration, at the banks, at the suppliers. They'll be on top of normal costs. I think a lot of companies will pull out the plug and go bankrupt. We have to stop companies from stopping it. If that happens, all the support, the whole 62 billion, has been for nothing. You've only bought time as a government, expensive time. Then it's been a delay in execution. Let us therefore ensure that, in the port's view, no companies go bankrupt unnecessarily. That was the promise once. So let's make up a hundred percent, all of us. Then it is also about the companies that are now out of business, such as the start-ups, even if they started at the end of 2019 or after July 2020. I refer to the 1,200 border entrepreneurs Mr Van Dijk mentioned. I mention the hairdressers and others who just didn't make the 30% turnover loss, because they're being looked at quarterly. That's something like that. In October and November money is still made, but in December, where you really wanted to make the big hit, you had to close. And then you don't make it to the 30%. I'm gonna name the zzp guys whose partner has a small job. They're not getting anything. It is really scandalous how thezzp'ers are treated. At least get rid of that partner test. Mr Stoffer spoke of chains of shops that are the alarm clock: 40% are in heavy weather. What will the Netherlands look like without all those Blokkers, Intertoys, Scapino's and Leen Bakkers in the shopping streets? What about 175,000 unemployed? Can the Minister examine how the flag hangs with those medium-sized affiliates? What about the entrepreneurs who had no turnover in the first two quarters of 2019, because they were remodeling? Are they out of the boat now? And what about companies that had a very different turnover at the beginning of 2019 than in the first quarter of 2020, for example, because they only had one branch and later grew to three branches? Mr. Chairman. The enlargement announced now is not enough. Entrepreneurs still have thousands of euros to pay, money they no longer have. The PVV calls for all affected entrepreneurs to be compensated for 100% in order to prevent the child from being thrown away with the bath water and many billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you, Mr. Tony van Dijck. Very well, exactly within the speaking time. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you, Mr President. My group, too, welcomes this massive additional package of support. It is a good thing that the cabinet provides security for the next six months. In this way, we can ensure that many entrepreneurs will be able to get back to work and not fall over at the end. I would also like to pay tribute to all those involved in the implementation: the officials in the ministries, the municipalities, the implementation organisations. It's really a mega operation. Deep admiration for that. Mr. Chairman. The starters have already been discussed by Mr Aartsen, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Haga. I'd like to join in on that. I'll go straight to the TVL. Firstly, the ceiling in the TVL for medium-sized enterprises. According to the Minister, the ceiling cannot be further increased due to State aid rules. The framework simply contains a ceiling of 3 million in Section 3.12, Article 87 (a) and (d). Why don't you explain exactly why that doesn't apply here in the Chamber? For the listening officials: Section 3.12, Article 87 (a) and (d). Why is that not true? There's the ceiling in the framework. A separate scheme has been announced for agricultural and horticultural undertakings eligible for an increase in TVL, also because of the State aid rules. My group appreciates that very much. This is now only applicable for the first quarter of this year. My group believes it is important that we should also be able to offer more certainty to entrepreneurs in agriculture and horticulture until the summer. Can this be extended to quarter two? I have a motion in preparation to ask that of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then the corona leave for parents with young children, on which GroenLinks might want to interrupt me. That leave is a broad wish of the Chamber, and also of the Christian Union. The situation in many families is acute and many parents are dying during this intensive period. I understand that this is a question of good employership. Much depends on the coulance and flexibility of employers towards their employees. Compensation from the Empire can of course help. I would like to hear what the Minister's plans are in this regard. Mr. Chairman. It is also a good thing that the student allowance is extended. However, this applies only to students who graduate this season, while all students suffer from significant negative consequences from the current situation, with education on a screen for months. What possibilities does the cabinet see to compensate those other students? Mr. Chairman. My group also welcomes the subsidy scheme for R&D investment in the mobility sector and the manufacturing industry. I note that this is in fact the first time since 2011 that the programme innovation policy has returned. That's good news. Can the cabinet explain what this arrangement is going to look like? Is it only about new investments, or can companies also apply for subsidies for ongoing investments that have been compromised? Can we also explicitly ask colleges and universities to join, so that the Netherlands can work on the triple helix again; the public-private collaboration between companies, government and knowledge institutions? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the exit strategy. I read in The Financial Daily this morning that phases have been defined. What do these phases look like? Who are involved in the plan? When can that be discussed in the Chamber? In April last year we discussed the protocols of Minister Wiebes for the safe and rapid reopening of sectors. Now the engineer has disappeared from the cabinet, but please not his input. I don't hear much about these protocols anymore. Are those plans still in place? When will there be a focus on how we can re-open companies as well and as quickly as possible, so that the economy is going to turn again? Mr. Chairman. Finally, develop a lifetime in turbo mode. I'll look at Minister Koolmees. In helping work to work, we need to focus on deficit sectors; sectors with a high demand for replacement and a large supply of durable jobs. These are the cleaning, construction and infra, the metal and the technique. Leave the additional support package, that 1.4 billion social package, especially in those deficit sectors, using the sector plans system. This will enable the technology sectors to set up a joint window, achieve a good matching infrastructure, and retrain people from surplus to deficit sectors. Can the Minister promise that financial support will also be available to those deficit sectors in order to scale up the necessary infrastructure? Does he want to have a quick discussion with the Industrial Coalition about this in order to find a constructive solution to achieve this? It would be extremely helpful if pension funds that have all the addresses of employees could share their data with R & D funds in the deficit sectors, including in the deficit sectors, so that employers in the deficit sectors can find the available employees in the surplus sectors. But the GDPR's been holding this off for a few years. Would the Cabinet consider whether data can be exchanged safely between pension funds and R&D funds, as part of the matching infrastructure to be set up? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u141	Exactly five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u142	That's what I'm known for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u143	I think it's an art. Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are special times, difficult times. For parents with kids who can't go to school. For young people experiencing limitations. For care workers who've been walking on their gums for over a year. And, of course, for entrepreneurs affected by the severe measures to control the corona virus. Mr. Chairman. When I talk to entrepreneurs, I always notice a number of things. The first is that they miss that entrepreneurial joy. Even though they get some money from the government, they miss that interaction with the customers. There is also the frustration that they cannot earn their own money and have to go around with the hat. In addition, there is financial uncertainty and the fear of losing their own business, which they have difficult to build. It's a good thing we're meeting the entrepreneurs. The cabinet has generously drawn the wallet for the first three support packages. "Whatever it takes," said Wopke Hoekstra. Today we are talking about "I have kept the third supplement to the third aid package." I see Mr Koolmees nodding, so it is true. The starting point is that companies that are healthy at heart should not be allowed to be beaches in the sight of the port. That may cost a bit, because if we keep our hands on the cut, the social costs of unnecessary bankruptcies and redundancies are many times higher. A downward spiral of bankruptcies and termination rounds leading to mass unemployment must be avoided at all costs. Mr. Chairman. DENK welcomes the support package. It's wise, but it can be improved on parts. We believe, like many parties, that the maximum of 85% in the NOW and in the TVL can reach 100%. After all, the costs for entrepreneurs are just 100%. They can't help it. Then why wouldn't you pay 100%? The government's reasoning is that it cannot do this alone and that landlords also have to contribute. We do not think this reasoning is plausible. This creates unnecessary conflicts and often has to be brought to justice. This means extra stress, extra uncertainty and also additional costs. The second pain point, also mentioned several times, is the partner test. Consistently, DENK has indicated that the partner test really needs to be removed. It hurts. The cabinet is also not conclusive in this respect. The cabinet has indicated that it will do so in order to get closer to the normal situation. But you only have to look outside to see that there is not much normal in the Netherlands at the moment. There will be a special start-up scheme for entrepreneurs who started a company between 1 January and 30 June 2020, as we read on page 9 of the letter. Why does the RVO window only open in April or May? Last year we saw that the offices of the RVO and the UWV opened much faster, within a few days. Why does this have to take so long? The group of DENK supports the special sectors, such as theatres, cinemas, opera and concert halls, sports clubs, swimming pools and ice cream clubs. But there is also a small group of organisations that are really out of the question. I would like to draw attention to that. These are the civil society organisations that are really useful, but which are not that obvious. I am thinking in particular of foundations dedicated to young people, the elderly and women, which are often independent of subsidies. They are currently seeing their income from donations, room rentals and catering drop. Because they're a foundation, they're not eligible for the higher fee. They work with volunteers. That means they don't have a paycheck, and that doesn't make the NOW interesting for them. They'd like to see some of the fixed expenses reimbursed. I just got off the phone with one of those volunteers. He said: we are 50 years old and we are doing interesting and also much-needed activities for young people; it would be a terrible shame to fall over now because we are no longer able to do it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point I'm really worried about. Many entrepreneurs who are now able to survive with the help of the public authorities face a difficult situation after the closure of the aid packages. I sincerely wonder if they are able to get the company moving, because they have to operate economically economically with often higher costs. This is certainly the case when the cost of loans, combined with the payment of deferred taxes, comes on top of operating costs. Does the Minister share this concern? What are the expectations for the economy? Can the Minister mean anything in this? Finally, Mr President. In the last few days we were confronted with violent riots after curfew. We saw lootings of shops and nailed windows and windows. It is a good thing that the government, in coordination with the insurance companies, is helping the disabled with an emergency fund. It is also sensible that the Minister for Justice and Security has indicated that the curfew fines that shopkeepers who have been given their own things protected are withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u146	I've got two seconds left! I'm not Mr. Bruins, but I was close.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u147	I think that's very good. Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u148	I'm suspending the meeting until 2:25 p.m. Then we'll vote first and then we'll continue with the answer. Yeah? The votes will take about five minutes. Yeah, we have a short voting list. We have five motions.
