ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport. I would like to welcome the Minister, the Secretary of State, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. We have quite a few speakers. So this is gonna be a crazy night, I'm just saying. I would like to agree with you that in the first period we can ask each other a total of six questions and/or make comments. If there is a need for a little more, it must be possible, of course, but I would like to say this as a directive in order to control it somewhat. Let me take a look around, see if that's okay? That's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u2	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, I was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. It was just before Christmas and preparations for the Catshuis negotiations had just begun. Later, during the pauses of the negotiations, Geert and I occasionally talked about my diagnosis. I'm grateful to him for that, because those conversations allowed me to find the words to tell my family and friends. Initially MS was just an explanation for the crazy complaints I had for years, but in the 2012 election summer things went well. During that one week in August that all the parties had agreed to go on one week on vacation, I was in the stroke department of a hospital. Three quarters of my body was numb. I am extremely grateful to the medical team at the hospital that the wheelchair that was next to my bed remained unused until today, by the way. Actually, it's going pretty well. I'm always in pain, and I don't get used to it. Anyway, there are really worse things in the world. Actually, I didn't think I'd be in such good health here today, ten years later. I don't know what the future holds, but the way it looks now, you're not done with me for a while. The budgetary procedure is a time when many Members of Parliament tell a personal story, especially during the first budget debate of the new Members of Parliament after the elections. I expect that today, too. We have another nurse among us. We've got someone with a disability again. We have a doctor. I even saw a pregnant doctor today. We also have people who are not yet patients or people with disabilities, but who are still in good health and who are only health care contributors. Anyway, they might have parents on the care mill, grandparents living in a nursing home or they're about to tell us about an impressive work visit they had recently. Everyone has their own personal story when it comes to care, because that's the concern: personal. One day we're all gonna have our turn, and then it's gonna be personal. Well, it's gotta be good. That brings me to my greatest frustration as a care spokesperson: the contributions we will hear today are often, not always but often, far from the state of our concern at the moment. Our concern is about to fall. If it hadn't been for the corona crisis, our concern would've stalled, too. There were already too few people. There was already a towering workload. Five hospitals, sixteen emergency rooms and nineteen intensive cares had already been closed. There were already 914 ICU nurses less. There were already 20,000 elderly people on a waiting list for a nursing home. And the nursing homes were already closed. All this, while everyone here knows that the number of 75-plussers will double over the next twenty years and their concern will also be asked. Then we haven't even talked about the cabinet's plans for the future. The hospitals won't get anything in the next year. There's no money reserved for catching up. Within ten years, the cabinet still wants to close down half the hospitals and nursing homes. I see no regrets from the parties responsible for this. And much worse, I don't see any change of course. Our care-Titanic sails straight towards the ice floes and our cabinet plays nicely again like an orchestra with a cheerful tune. It's just plaster sticking: kiss on it and go! And that while our care is a patient who needs a large, life-saving operation. By the way, that operation doesn't have to be so complicated at all. In care everything is about two things: good people and good stuff. When you take care of these two things, you get a robust care that can take a hit. If you don't take care of it, your structure will collapse at some point. For all this, you must also be willing to pay enough. That does not mean that care becomes priceless, quite the contrary. Our care is paid from involuntary tax and premium payments. I think that this should be handled with care. I am therefore going to talk today about our solutions for enough people and stuff and how we are going to pay for them. I am not doing that for the first time, but for the fifteenth time. Fifteen times it was for nothing. But these solutions are right and affordable. The only reason they're not being executed is because I invented them. But that, this careless and arrogant disposable gesture, you can no longer afford at all. Care's on fire. Something has to be done now. All of us here are the ones who decide. Is it gonna be there or is it gonna be underneath? I say "up." So let me add the notepads, I say to those who are currently negotiating with each other on behalf of their parties about the care paragraph in the new coalition agreement. First of all, I come to the people. Care is human work. Good care falls or stands with sufficient staff. The deficit will rise to 74.000 employees next year. Out of a total of about 1.3 million, that's around 6%. Without sufficient and competent staff, the quality first comes under pressure and then the care services stop. We have recently been able to see this at more and more emergency services that are temporarily closing down and at maternity wards that have no place for giving birth to women. A majority supported my request for debate, but it was postponed. How this should be handled is exactly as Marcel Levi wrote in his column last week. "Closing emergency posts is a typical Dutch phenomenon," he wrote. "In most countries it is expressly prohibited. The drivers solve it there behind the front door, instead of carrying patients." That's what our attitude should be like. We should have held the debate on the closure of these emergency services directly on the same night. We should have gotten rid of it right away. If we don't, it'll be your lover for whom there is no place, or yours there, or yours, Mr. President. The crux of our proposals is that we clear the hands of the people who are already working in healthcare. Then we also get rid of the idiotic dogma that where one in seven people now work in health care, that should be one in four in 20 years' time. That is completely unrealistic. So stop talking about that. Do your job and fix it. Fortunately, staff shortages are well soluble. The following proposals do not cost extra money. There is also no need for extra people from outside care to work in care. Since 2006 we regularly present our overhead plan. Overheads increased to 16% in long-term care, where the best performing institutions are 5% to 7%. If they become the norm, some 50,000 overhead employees can again carry out an executive task while retaining their salary. The same number can be won in hospitals. So you're talking about about about 100,000 extra employees in the workplace, without having to pay a penny or need to attract extra employees from outside the workplace. Then I'll get to the rules. They are a thorn in the eyes of many, but in the past cabinet period far too little has happened to them. De Jonge's scraping sessions have not proved substantial. The rules are the nail to the coffin of our care. In the nursing homes alone, employees spend 35% of their time on administration, while residents only come to live there once. Make that 10% and you win 25 employees out of every 100 employees. That alone gives about 30,000 extra employees in the nursing homes. Worried you come to a multiple. Take the hospitals. Many hospitals employ more people who have no patient contact than people who do. Besides many hospitals there is also a building that is even larger than the hospital itself, where all administrative staff work. I have two specific proposals on the rules. In home care and in nursing homes you can work fine with one rate: away with all the registrations and re-indications. Or take the mileage registration at the upper-regional Valys transport. I'm looking at Mrs. Werner. People with disabilities should not only violate their own privacy by having to administer to the government where they go when, they should also pay five times more than the train fare per kilometre if they exceed their mileage. It doesn't take too much to scrape off. After all, you don't need the whole control circus anymore. It does pay a lot for people with disabilities. Things have to be different, Mr. President. Rules must be automated, standardised or abolished. Chisel that on the façade of the ministry of VWS, dear minister. The following proposals for additional employees will cost extra money, but no additional people from outside the care area will still have to be attracted. The full-time bonus, for example; often proposed, but miserable by the previous minister if that would not now be legally possible. But are we not, as we sit here together, legislators and co-legislators? So come on, Minister! The next yolk of a fish that swims in the pond seems like the big one to be insoluble, but it isn't. It could generate up to 200,000 additional employees if we were able to raise the part-time factor from 0.68% to 0.8%. And no, I don't have to force anyone to work more hours, but the big pink elephant in this room is that many women don't want to work more hours because they don't want to lose their bonuses within their family income. A VVD member would probably now say that these surcharges should be abolished. I'm not saying that. I propose that the allowance be extended so that part-time workers can work more hours without losing their allowances. I would ask the Minister to support this proposal, because I believe that we have a great solution in our hands here. Researchers have already calculated that the problems with shortage of employees are solved if everyone in the care one hour extra or if all part-time workers work one more day extra. The problems with the shortage of care workers are solved by cutting the rules short. Then the stuff, the material side of the care. Last year showed how wrong that can go. On the eve of the first corona wave, all our protective equipment was sold to China. All our masks, aprons, glasses and gloves were gone when we needed them the most. Market forces showed themselves to be ugly. Our caregivers had it checked out. The care and everyone who got corona before vaccines were available deserve an apology for this immense laxity. And Maurice the Dog, of course, because he was right. Since May of this year, the CDC, the American big brother of our RIVM, and the World Health Organization have recognized that corona is spreading mainly by breathing in each other's breath. With us, however, aerogenic transmission is still not in the mix. The cabinet is still squeezing about the right ventilation. There are still no new, correct ventilation guidelines for public environments. Still there aren't CO-meters everywhere. There is still no continuous repeated advice on radio and TV for proper ventilation at home, where two thirds of the infections occur. The cabinet is failing. And look at this: the infections are getting worse. The panic's on the rise, too. How is it possible that in a wealthy and prosperous country like the Netherlands, our hospitals still have the check-up now, almost two years later? How is it that people have to be afraid that their surgery will be postponed again? Why aren't we overflowing the Ice Beds by now? Why did only a handful of ICU nurses come in? Why doesn't the Minister have the ventilation and hospital capacity in order? Why does he start as a lightning rod of his own inability a hotshot against the unvaccinated? They won't get in without a test, but the infected vaccinees will. A gentleman who tested positive, kept his QR code, went out all weekend and even took the plane. That's impossible, isn't it? Let the Minister lift the bogus security with those QR codes and work on the following matters. One: the right ventilation. Two, let's get out of the stable that whoever has corona is going into home isolation instead of going out. Three: Ensure sufficient ic-capacity. Four, provide backup capacity. Those are measures that cut wood. My group is not against measures, but they must have effect. Then you prevent new infections and thus freedom-limiting measures. Finally, there is one more thing that bothers me. Mr. Gommers, the chairman of intensive care, states that 650 patients are the maximum ic capacity. That is why there is now a great panic. However, the Minister writes in his answer to question 629 in the budget that for a scaling up to 1,700 ic-beds there is no need for extra ic-staff. Why not? He writes it himself: because then there will be work with one ic nurse in three patients instead of two. Of course, that is not a good situation, but it is a temporary situation. Temporarily, until he has the capacity and spare capacity in order. I would like to give this question to you again, Mr President. Perhaps you could give the Minister the answer to his own question. Then he can answer the question why the Minister wants to take new measures and see panic. There's another question that also plays with a lot of people. During the first wave, the highest peak was 1,424 patients on the ic. The question is how can we go beyond that if 85% of the people have been fully vaccinated and 40% of the unvaccinated have had corona. In question 563 of the budget, I asked the Minister to give us the sum so that we can understand him. Why don't we get the sum? Why do we not have the opportunity to carry out our constitutionally controlling task, I ask the Minister? When it comes to the material side of the care, there is more wrong. I'm very concerned about our elderly housing for the next 20 years. My old profession is architecture. I used to spend my days behind a shot like this, just a little bigger, at an architect's office. What a wonderful job that was. From my own experience, I know how many years go from commission to delivery, all the way from big buildings like healthcare institutions. Arrange an administrative agreement for the construction assignment for the next twenty years of which we can't check the numbers. We don't get that sum either, but there's a good chance it won't work. It's nice numbers, though, 60,000 old homes and 25 nursing homes within five years, but we don't know if it's enough. Within twenty years, 164,000 extra and renewed nursing homes will be needed. How hard is that administrative agreement? What are the guarantees that our elders will soon have the primary need for a roof over their heads? Take the Fletcher Hotel in Emmen. This would become a care complex for the elderly, but now the municipality of Emmen makes the property immediately available for the reception of asylum seekers. It makes me so angry. Our elders, the people who built our country, the people who still had to eat flower bulbs in the war, the people who had to forsake; they have checked now that they have become old and dependent. Their places are given away to people who have no business here. Therefore, once again the question to the Minister: what are your administrative agreements worth for the elderly who simply need a roof over their heads over the next 20 years? Finally, the cost of care. It is a good thing that from page 184 of the budget, a little more attention has been paid to the significant underlapse that VWS has had to deal with since 2012. For a long time I felt a crying in the desert and wrote about this in 2015 the book Versilveren. Now you can all read that there is an absurd gap between the forecasts of healthcare costs and actual expenditure. Net healthcare costs increased from €64 billion in 2012 to €76 billion in 2021. That's a lot of money, but they didn't go up to the nearly 90 billion euros that were predicted. So there was no need to panic. There was no reason to undress the concern to a level where we couldn't even cope with a crisis, because that's what happened. Care is at a good 10% of GDP. You know, most of this goes on salaries. It's okay to pay for that. First of all, you prevent care costs from getting out of hand with a thriving economy, where the economy and care are relatively similar. That would be a good aim, if it were not for care cuts too, despite the crisis of care, to continue to be a policy in place. The Central Planning Bureau warned in 2017 that new main line agreements would lead to a loss of quality, but still new ones came. Even now, in the face of the current massive crisis, I see no change of course. Worse: in the coming year, hospitals will have to do it with a 0% volume growth limit while they're on blows. Not a penny, so not for catching up. What you shouldn't do if you're worried about the care and whether it's still affordable, is lift the care. The latter argues the latest report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. That's some silly advice. The policy of the right care in the right place, which has now been transferred to page 321 of the budget, still shows that the cabinet wants to close half of the hospitals and nursing homes in ten years' time. If you and all of us don't stop this, we're co-responsible. In addition to the fact that you do not have to abort care, you should not waste your money on all kinds of priceless things, such as payments to Brussels, climate development aid or mass immigration. There are about 1,200 people walking into our country at the moment. The 60,000 people who do that this year cost us a sloppy EUR 34 billion. In three years' time, with EUR 100 billion more than we spend on healthcare in a whole year. On question 954 in the budget, the question of which part of the net cost of care is due to the increase in population of 2 million people since 1995, we get a half-baked answer. The 12% share, some EUR 10 billion, is being trivialised by the amazing idea that immigrants do not age and do not take advantage of care. And I always thought that those older Turks, Moroccans and Polish farm workers had broken their backs from all the hard work they did, which nobody wanted to do. Let everyone who is concerned about the cost of care think about that. Every migrant becomes, like everyone else, a carer too. The Netherlands must choose: immigration country or welfare state. It can't be both, because one day we all need care: everyone. No one avoids illness or old age. We're here together to decide what it's gonna be. Is it gonna be a care infarction or not? What we're doing here isn't just telling a nice, personal story. This is our concern. Is it still there when it's our turn? Or was it lost? Our concern deserves to be cherished, to be carefully maintained by us and to be loved by us. The choice is ours: will it be on or below?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Then I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're proud of our concern. Whether you are rich or poor, mostly healthy or more often sick: in the Netherlands there is good, loving care for all of us. It's patient-centred care. That's what we pay for, very supportively, with each other. We must be careful how we organized them in our country, as well as the people who work there. Because I'm proud of all the people in the care. Their resilience, cooperation and perseverance have driven the Netherlands through the corona crisis. The lessons we have learned from them, we want to take to the future. We want to maintain good cooperation, because, of course, there is still enough we can do to make our care even better, so that it remains accessible, affordable and of high quality. The report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, Choosing Sustainable Care and the report Appropriate Care of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, give cause for thought again. According to the WRR, we need to make stronger choices: how do we ensure sufficient staff, how do we ensure that the premium remains affordable for people with a normal average income and how do we ensure that we can cope with future health crises? This requires choices and therefore also audacity of politics: choices that we cannot all make today. We don't have a new cabinet yet and we're still in corona time, so the care hasn't returned to a more normal situation. But we also have to look ahead. I want to focus today on four topics: how do we prepare ourselves for a health crisis, how do we provide sufficient staff in healthcare, how do we ensure that we can continue to pay the bill and how do we do it while the patient remains central? Then my colleague Ockje Tellegen takes over the stick. Mr. Chairman. The corona virus has been and still is in our hands recently. People who have had corona continue to suffer for a long time from the consequences of this awful disease: fatigue, poor condition, shortness of breath and poor memory. How can we ensure that we help these people enough? It is also clear that a robust healthcare system is needed to deal with the health crisis. This means, for example, that we must have sufficient people and resources in place, in case we find ourselves in a situation like this again. The VVD wants to opt for a so-called strategic care reserve of former care workers and volunteers who are willing to jump in when needed. As good as it sounds, having staff standing by who, in a normal time, have too little work to do if we can already find those people... just doesn't make sense. Furthermore, we were too dependent on countries like China and India for the tools in corona time. This means that we must have more strategic stocks of aid and medicines ourselves. And we need to see how organisations can react more flexibly to a crisis. We want to know what plan the cabinet has for the GGD, the GHOR and the security regions in that framework. In Rotterdam, for example, they started with the Pandemic & Disaster Preparedness Center. Excuse the English term. We want to know how this fits in with the government's policy of pandemic preparedness and the role the cabinet sees for such initiatives. When does the Cabinet come up with a comprehensive plan to be ready for a future pandemic? One of the good lessons from corona was that we could get vaccines and medicines to the patient quickly. That's the way we always want to see it. What lessons can we learn for the authorisation of medicines and vaccines and how can we reduce the lead time of now on average 510 days in a safe way? The WRR keeps a mirror in front of us when it comes to personnel. That is the most acute and pinching point for the sustainability of care. We can see that in all parts of the care: whether it is the shortage of dentists or general practitioners, or the intensive care, the emergency care and the emergency care, as Mrs Agema already pointed out, birth care. What's the Minister gonna do with the WRR's distress call? This calls not for an action plan, but for a coherent, robust crisis approach. At the moment, one in seven people work in healthcare. With unchanged policies, this will be one in four people in 2040 to meet the growing demand for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u6	Mrs De Vries is now pretending that the deficits, which we are now suddenly discovering because there is a corona crisis, are falling out of the sky. But it was the VVD itself who in the previous cabinet in the youth care, at the Wmo and in the nursing and nursing homes caused a huge blow. You were just talking about the I.C.C. care. I've got the list right here. Over the past ten years, nineteen Ice Departments have been closed, namely those of Vlissingen, Spijkenisse, Delfzijl, Winschoten, Leiden, Hoogeveen, Veghel, Stadskanaal and continue. Everything had to go. Think about youth care and these ICU departments. Think also of the nursing homes, the long-term care, in which 80,000 people were fired. And now the VVD is asking the cabinet how we're going to solve those deficits. Can the VVD itself look in the mirror and learn lessons from what it has done in healthcare over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u7	I certainly think everyone should learn from the corona crisis, but I would like to start with the first part of Mr Hijink's speech. We have indeed had to make very difficult decisions in a very complicated period, after a financial crisis. We really had to make a lot of cuts. The burden had to be increased. That wasn't funny, absolutely not, I totally agree with you. But I do think it was necessary at that time, also to ensure that we would eventually emerge stronger from that crisis. I'm not running away from that. That's the decision we made. I'm still glad we made that decision. But I can also see that a number of other steps have now emerged, for example in this pandemic, which have shown that we were not flexible enough and not manoeuvrable enough. I want to learn lessons from that. I will come to a few things about the labour market that we think are solutions. But that is the most pressing problem we have to solve. The WRR has also indicated this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u8	Being avengable also means making the right choices at the right time. You just mentioned the shortage of dentists. Successive VVD ministers have not followed the advice of the Capacity Body for years to train more dentists. For years, VVD ministers have been responsible for the dismissal grounds of healthcare workers in the previous cabinet. It was VVD ministers who closed the nursing homes in recent years. That has not been a sensible policy. You say: I'm glad we did. Well, I'm not at all happy that the previous cabinet did. In fact, it is one of the main causes of the crisis we are currently in. We no longer have those places in the hospitals, those shelters for the elderly in the nursing homes are no longer there and the pressure on the general practitioners is so great because there are far too little training, partly under the responsibility of the VVD. That is, of course, the real problem. I therefore ask Mrs De Vries not only what the cabinet should do, but also what the VVD intends to do to resolve these deficits rather than just ask a question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u9	If Mr Hijink had waited... I had just arrived at the paragraph in which I wanted to mention the ideas that we consider important to try to tackle that problem. I don't think there's just one very quick solution, that we can snap our fingers and we can fix it. This is a tough problem. It's not a problem we only see in care. Of course, we see it in all kinds of sectors: politics, the defence sector and a lot of other sectors. So it will ask a lot of us to solve that problem. That is not to do with one measure, I think. I think we should take a package of measures. I think it's all hands on deck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u10	This is too easy for me. I share the annoyance of Mrs Agema from earlier, who, in my opinion, mentioned some very good solutions, for example when it comes to bureaucracy in nursing homes, the care packages, and for example when it comes to paying higher salaries to our caregivers. That is what you say that is so important in words, but it has certainly not happened in recent years. Caregivers are 6% to 9% behind salaries when you look at salaries in the market sector. Then are you willing to close that hole? I mean that on top of that amount that the SP and the Christian Union have released together, which is making 675 million extra money available, so that we can attract more people to care and that we are going to give the people who are working there now and who are walking out of their asses, the appreciation they deserve. So I mean that it is more than fine words, but that money is also made available for that, because I never belong to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u11	I think we need a lot of different measures to solve this problem. Mrs Agema herself pointed out that it would be very good if, for example, people working part-time worked more hours. You have to make that rewarding. We may differ on the solutions for how to do that, but I think that is a very important one. I also agree with Mrs Agema that we need to tackle the regulatory burden and bureaucracy. It is not for nothing that we, as a VVD, have worked together with the CDA on the first-line coalition calling for annual accountability. I have to say, however, that sometimes it was rather awfully quiet on a number of points, perhaps because it comes from an amendment from the Chamber. I also think that you should be willing to look: what does that really mean in practice, and are you going to change that? I mean, if there are any proposals, you'll find me by your side. I think Mrs van den Berg might come up with that as well. I think we should look closely at sufficient training places and internships.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u12	I heard Mrs De Vries briefly speak about the WRR report. She said we're gonna have to make decisions and make painful decisions. What is Mrs De Vries thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u13	I am thinking, among other things, of the problem of the sustainability of the labour market, the shortage of staff. We will really have to make a number of choices that will allow us to solve that problem. But I also think you should really ask yourself whether you should continue to pay for non-sustainable care, non-suitable care and non-effective care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u14	I think that's really too simple. Look, I'm not into free cuddling with dolphins either. I mean, that doesn't have to be reimbursed for me either. But there is, of course, a lot of care in our hospitals that is not proven to be effective, but it is innovative. For example, if we hadn't experimented with those tiny little things that can prevent a leaking heart valve through your groin, then whole chests would still be cut open. So a lot of unproven care is extremely effective and we should also continue to do so if we want to make care cheaper. But I would like to hear the broad lines of the VVD. If the VVD says in the WRR report that we will have to make difficult decisions in the future, I would like to hear from the VVD in advance what she will do. For example, I would like to mention three points. The 0% volume growth limit for next year's hospitals: is that going to stay or not? Two, the right care in the right place. I am referring to the closure of 50% of hospitals and nursing homes within ten years: does the VVD support this? Well, there are a number of things. What's the VVD gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u15	I'll be on part of the WRR report in the course of my story. I think we should look very carefully at what is effective care. You can say: no, you shouldn't innovation... If you're talking about innovation, you'll find me all on your side. I think you should give innovation the space. But you also have to look at it at some point: does it indeed provide more effective care, or does it not provide more effective care? I also think that you should see what can best happen in the hospital, and what you can do at home, for example. What can you do in one-and-a-half-line care? What can you do in primary care? For example, we have seen that many corona patients can be monitored at home. I think that for a patient who is ill, it is often a more pleasant situation in the base. In a number of cases, it's really necessary that you go to the hospital, absolutely. But I think you should also think about some of the things I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u16	This is very much about the level of detail. There are a lot of cancer treatments not proven effective. These sometimes cost up to €80,000 per chemo treatment. Will the VVD say that a mother of three children should not be with her children for three months longer? I would like to hear from the VVD what it means by 'difficult decisions will have to be made in the future that will hurt'. Is this about volume growth restrictions in hospitals? They're not gonna get a dime. Is it gonna stay that way? Is it about the fact that there won't be any money for catching up later? Is it about 50% closing down hospitals and nursing homes? I want to hear the broad lines. What are these difficult decisions according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u17	I think I've outlined some of them. Mrs. Agema can talk about "details." I think these are important developments, in order to ensure, in the end, that we keep that care affordable for ordinary people in the country. Look at the predictions of the cost of care. Those care expenses are putting everything aside. They make sure people have less money in their wallet. The cost of care means that in future we will have less money left to keep doing other things as well. That will happen unless we raise a lot of taxes, which my party is not in favour of. We also want to save money for education, security, defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u18	Flat dogmas. 2021, we closed with EUR 75 billion instead of EUR 90 billion. There's nothing here but panic. Because of the VVD, care has been broken down, so we couldn't cope with the immense crisis. At the moment, while there are 200 people with corona on the ice, our minister is already working on new corona measures, because our concern is just too tight; cutting too much. I'm gonna ask what the VVD's gonna do. One specific question: does the VVD support the current policy on page 321 of the budget, which is to close half the hospitals and nursing homes in ten years' time, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u19	We support this budget. I can report that already. But I would like to give something back to Mrs Agema. Because you can now get your head in the sand about the climate crisis, but I think it is also very important that we work on it, including for people's health and also for air quality. All that kind of stuff is involved in people's health gains. I therefore regret that Mrs Agema and the PVV are not aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u20	Finally. Of course, this is very faint, because I am in favour of wider and higher dikes, and our air hasn't been this healthy in decades. So that's a death killer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u21	I just wanted to make a few things right. Mrs De Vries has just said that it was necessary to cut back so much in the previous crisis. The IMF has shown that as a country it has taken us about two to three years longer, precisely because we have cut so hard under Rutte II. ING has calculated that hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost unnecessarily because savings have been made so hard. So that's a fact. That's not something I'm making up. That's a fact. That can be looked up. In all likelihood, among the hundreds of thousands of jobs lost in that austerity battle under Rutte II, there is also a great deal of unnecessary loss of jobs and care personnel, which we have suffered a great deal in the corona crisis. If I explain these facts, is Mrs De Vries prepared to look again with this information at how care should be kept stable, constantly up-to-date, so that we do not have to fail again in the event of a crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u22	I am in favour of keeping care future-proof and robust. I think that's the intention of all of us here. Maybe we have different solutions to get there, but that is also our priority. But I would also like to take a look back at what Mrs Gündoğan has said about facts. We have indeed spent less than was planned and what might have been automatism. That's right. But we didn't cut back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u23	Jobs have been lost. That may not be an immediate cut, but that is an indirect cut. That indirect austerity did ensure that we had such a bolder concern, that when there were no more Ice Beds, we had to go abroad. Fortunately, in Europe too, we could go abroad. But of course that's not what you should assume in a pandemic. Your own country has to be robust. This means that the number of beds and the number of care staff should be sufficient. With these crises in a row, it seems to me healthy to learn from them and to ensure that instead of having a skinny care system, we have a health system that has some bacon on its hands and can cope with crises. That's my plea for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u24	That's my plea, too. I have indicated that we must learn a number of things from this. I will not be in favour of saying "let's just put giant Ice-Beds," as far as we can find the staff there already, and then there's no work for those people and they're empty. That's not what I'm here for. But I think that we should look at this manoeuvrability and flexibility and the possibilities for scaling up. I have just mentioned a few examples of this, such as the healthcare reserve, but also the reduction of dependence on medicines and devices, for example. These are important lessons that we have learned from this corona crisis. We must work to find solutions there for the years to come and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u25	Mrs. Gündoğan? No? I think Mrs Ellemeet was allowed to go first. Yes. Mrs Ellemeet, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u26	Thank you very much, and thank you to my fellow Members. I would like to continue on Mrs Gündoğan's very justified point, namely that we should also look at who ultimately pays the bill for a crisis. Volt's colleague has clearly shown that we are always paying for a crisis with vulnerable people, people with small incomes: home care workers, people working in youth care. They lost their jobs because we thought that in an economic crisis we had to cut back on care, while the figures show that it is unwise. It also exposes to me how the VVD ultimately makes choices. 'Cause who's gonna pay the bill here when we're having a hard time? Should they be people who work in home care or youth care, or should we look much more at large companies and shareholders, where the money often fluffs against the plinths?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u27	It is important to point out that during the crisis we took a number of measures that, for example, increased taxes. I don't agree that you can just put the ball down to business, absolutely not. I believe that these companies also ensure that we in this country can earn money, that people have jobs and that there are revenues from those taxes. We can also pay for a lot of good things. We will probably disagree on exactly how you put that division down. I understand that Mrs Ellemeet was not happy with the proposals that were put forward in the past. We really felt it was necessary to work with the 50 billion in the financial crisis we were in. Again, I'm fine with everyone trying to explain it as cuts. It was really less spending. In the end, no cuts have been made. Less has gone to the care department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u28	The beauty of the VWS budget debate is that you can also talk about major, substantial issues and that we are not just talking about the hobbies of all spokesmen. For me, this is a very important point, namely: who are we for? He's not from my party, but Ron Meyer from the SP has written a wonderful book about it: The indispensables. It shows that we, as politicians, have too little interest in the people I have just mentioned: home-care workers, people working in youth care. Those are the people we need very much and for whom we should really stand up. So my question to Mrs De Vries is next. If she wanted to learn something from the crisis we had before and from this corona crisis, what choices would we make? Are we going to keep that care vital and make sure we don't lose all those people we really need in healthcare? Because then we'll have to work twice as hard to get them back. Or, in the end, do we opt for the big money and the growing inequality, which unfortunately we also see in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u29	As Mrs Ellemeet probably knows, we as a group have made a very clear choice for middle income and SMEs in this cabinet period and in the coming period of this Chamber. I think those are the right choices. You can differ on that. We choose those groups, which have also had and still have a very hard time, and which have taken a lot of hits in the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u30	Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals and then to Mr Kuzu of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u31	I heard Mrs De Vries say a while ago: we must relate as much as possible to new pandemics. I wonder if she agrees with the Animal Party that we should avoid new pandemics. If we know that 80% of the expected infectious diseases are zoonoses in the near future, then I wonder if they agree with us that we should mainly prevent them and, if there is one, we should look at how to deal with them. I wonder what the VVD is like in the strategy of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u32	I think prevention is always good. We will have to look at that, too. Our parties may have very different solutions to this and, for example, look at the agricultural sector differently, but it is certain that you should also look at prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u33	There is a report from Bekedam, which indicates what needs to be done to prevent these zoonoses and thus possible new pandemics. In that report, scientists indicate that livestock farming needs to shrink and that the number of animals will indeed have to be reduced in order to prevent a new pandemic. I am curious to see what other solutions you have for such a large scientific report suggesting that these are the solutions that are available and necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u34	I do not know whether we should discuss this now with the agricultural debate, but for the VVD, reducing livestock is not a goal. That will be different with the Party for Animals. But we are looking at how to solve the problem of nitrogen, for example, and there are a lot of other problems, such as water quality. We will all have to solve them for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u35	One last comment. The problem is that this is also an agricultural discussion and certainly also a health discussion. It is about the fact that zoonoses can cause a new pandemic. Corona is a zoonoses. That zoonoses caused this pandemic. I find it too easy to say: we are talking about the VWS budget here and we will not be talking about this kind of essential health problems. I think that we should do this here and we should have a discussion about it in this way, because otherwise we will miss a major health problem, which we should really get into here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u36	I did not say that we should not look at a solution to the problems. I do not agree with the solution chosen by the Party for Animals, for example a halving of livestock or perhaps no more livestock in the Netherlands. I think we need the farmers, who work very hard, very much for the food supply. So we are looking for solutions to this problem in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u37	I would like to go back to the problem of the labour market in care, because we are indeed expecting huge deficits in the coming years. It is our expensive duty to ensure that we can provide quality care, not only for this generation but also for future generations, who also need sensible care, to throw that word in. But I also remember that in 2009 I wasn't a politician at the time and had another job was prepared a report on the staff shortage in healthcare in 2020. I can imagine that, in the meantime, countless reports have been written on a possible shortage of the labour market in healthcare. I've seen some of them come by. According to the VVD, what really needs to be different than usual?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u38	Maybe I can continue with my text, because I come now to the list for which we as a VVD think solutions are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u39	Is it right for Mrs De Vries to continue her speech? Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u40	If her counter keeps running!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u41	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u42	Sure. You're gonna be fine. My next sentence would be: the VVD wants to give some direction. First of all, we must ensure that those who now work with heart and soul in care want to stay there and hopefully work even more hours. This means that we should not bother them with unnecessary rules and workload, but that we should give them a say in the workplace. The VVD and GroenLinks are working on a firmer voice for the nurses. We're gonna have to make extra work pay. In this way, we also make care more attractive for people who are considering looking for a job in it. There must also be sufficient training places and internships. Targeted training must become more the norm. We must ensure that tasks that can be carried out in a different way are removed from the care staff. Think of better data exchange, digitisation and e-health. We don't do that because we want a robot at the bed, but precisely so that the staff is relieved and more time left for loving care. What is the Cabinet going to do to introduce labour-saving innovations? Let me look at Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u43	Do you want to interrupt now or do you want to wait and see the story? This was about the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u44	I've got a little bit left, so why don't I move on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u46	Gupta Strategists has made five recommendations. What's the Cabinet doing with that? Because nurses spend 90% less time in wound care thanks to innovative bandage materials. Thanks to a new heart valve procedure, the hospital can save more than 60 working hours and 70 hours of lying in intensive care for the patient compared to traditional open heart surgery. That is precious time and these are valuable places that can be used much better. As I said, less bureaucracy and fewer rules can also contribute to finer work in health care, to tackling the staff shortage and to reducing the workload. We therefore still do not understand why we need to impose additional rules on primary care at this time in the context of the annual responsibility obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u47	I think you can just finish your story. Oh, Mr Kuzu wants to interrupt now. This is the moment of Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u48	This was indeed the list of the VVD when it comes to improving the labour market in healthcare, so that more capacity is created. I'm just gonna pick out some of them. One of the points was, for example, the administrative burden. We have also been holding the debate here in the House of Representatives for 20 years. Efficiency is the point of the VVD. We have had a debate on this in the Chamber for years. My question was, what's different than different? Because the shortage of staff in care is not a new issue. This has been a subject of debate for many years. What's really different now? What else is there to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u49	I think I've indicated what I think we should do differently. But I fully agree with Mr Kuzu that it is a very tough process to abolish those rules. I believe that the five-minute registration has been abolished here ten times and I believe that there are still institutions working with it. So that's a tough process. But that also requires something from us. I myself find it frustrating that an amendment has been adopted in a law with all good intentions, but that we can see a great deal of administrative burdens coming from it. I think you should have the courage to see if you can do that a little easier. That's gonna take some of us. This also requires vigilance in legislation. Because of course we are also very good at saying, if there is an incident in the country, do something about it. The question of how to do something about it is answered very often with more rules. Maybe we should get rid of that reflex.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u50	I do miss an important point. Because healthcare workers have been asking for better working conditions for years. I'm not saying that more salary is the only motivator to work longer in care, do more care or choose care. But it's an important condition to be able to do your job. We have seen in recent years that countless people in different sectors have asked for a raise. Then what was the reason for the VVD to be against it all the time? In the end, there will be a proposal of 670 million. This is partly reimbursed from the increase in premiums, and partly from the profit tax. But the VVD is still not very much in favour of that. Why don't you give those workers a higher salary in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u51	I do not think we should make a caricature of the fact that there have been no increases in health care at all in recent years. I can see that, on a number of points, there are still problems with specific components, often also in the lower paid scales. But I do think there are other things too. That is also what we hear from the people who work with a great deal of heart and soul in care. That is also why, for example, together with GroenLinks, we have made such an initiative legislative proposal on the control of nurses, which we are currently working on. Those are all elements that I think you should pick up. It's not one thing. I don't think you'll solve it with one measure or one thing quickly. You're really gonna have to deal with that whole package. And you're gonna have to spend a really long year trying to do that. Because it turns out that one way or another there are extra rules that are being drawn up every time, for example, and more accountability is being asked. This also calls for restraint in our laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u52	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u53	Mr. Chairman. That all seems technical, but we want our healthcare professionals to have time for the patient, to have more time for the good conversation, to make the right diagnosis and to consider whether or not to treat and which treatment or which specialist is appropriate. Just for that human size, we want to keep room. Mr. Chairman. I've always admired Edith Schippers as Minister of Health. She dared to raise difficult points and make sharp choices, including in terms of the affordability of care in the future. It sounds so nice to keep doing everything and to run away from those kinds of choices, but families who do nothing will have to spend half their salary on care will not benefit. Mr. Chairman. Healthcare expenditure is expected to rise by 16.8 billion in the coming period, from 76 billion in 2021 to 92.8 billion in 2025. An adult in the Netherlands pays an average of over €6,000 in healthcare in 2022. According to the WRR, if we do nothing, healthcare expenditure will triple over the next 40 years. Imagine your child paying three times as much to care. There's no way to do that. Then as a normal family, you don't have any money left for other things. If we don't do something, care will take up all the space, in our household wallet, but also in the household book of the Empire. Then we'll just have no money for teachers, cops or roads. In short, we have to do something. And, above all, keep explaining why we're doing that. 'Cause we're all gonna have to control the cost of care. We make that choice as a political choice here, but also in the people's home. Mr. Chairman. The VVD doesn't like to tell people how to live their lives, how often they exercise, what they eat and what is or isn't good for them. As far as we're concerned, you can just have a beer or have a little fries war. What we do like is that people become more aware of what is and is not good for them and what choices they have in them. If they want to live healthier and move more, we want to support them. Health insurers also have a role to play in this. We would like to know from the Minister what obstacles and bottlenecks there are for health insurers to do more about prevention and how we can solve this. These negative incentives need to be transposed so that the commitment to more prevention pays off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u54	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u55	The VVD holds a warm plea for sharp choices. Let me translate it as well: we must not hold up sacred houses. But does that mean that things that have been virtually indiscusable for the VVD in the past period, i.e. more commitment to population benefit, medical specialists in paid employment, benefits in health care are now also negotiable, among other things in youth care, etc.? Or is it just about that side of: what do we pay and what do we not pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u56	I think we should do the same, but I think we have indicated earlier that we also want to look at the production incentives. As far as we are concerned, that is to say that we should not organise it in such a way that the efficiency incentives that we also need are destroyed. So I think you should look at a very wide palette for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u57	That's what I expect from the formation, because let's face it: in the past four or five years it has been quite still. Under Rutte II a number of things have been addressed, not all wise. That was necessary because there was a financial need. In recent years, we have only paid for the corona crisis. Real fundamental choices have not been made. So I expect more than just choosing to make a little budget. I also expect to see all sides looking at where the crazy financial incentives are and what is really needed. So listen to the calls of the NZa and others, among others, to really dare to look at that system again and to redesign it where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u58	You're going a little too fast for me when you say look at the system. I want to solve the problems. We have a lot of good things in the system. There are a number of things that can be improved, but I think that the Dutch Healthcare Authority is very happy if there are still efficiency incentives in the system. We think that is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u59	Not to be acidic, but this makes me a little skeptical about what will then be on that formation table. Because then it's "a little less here" and "a little calving off there," but if you don't really have the courage to make fundamental choices, if you just insist that it should be effective and if you don't have the courage to look at what it takes to bring second-line care back to first-line care and to make sure that there aren't four or five places of cardiac surgery in children, then I don't expect much of it. It is said that these four or five places are not necessary at all, but that they do not get rid of them, because they miss sales when they scale down. If you are not in a position to really face that basically, then we are indeed here to hold a debate for the good, but I expect very few fundamentals to take place at the end of the day during the formation. But I like to be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u60	I do not think it will be entirely surprising, Mrs Kikking, that we are not supposed to be negotiating here now. I think the parties are at the table to see what is needed for care, for a future-proof care system, but also for affordable care and for solving the problems in the labour market. I think that these are really big challenges for the future. In addition, we must, of course, be more and more resistant to health crises and be more agile and flexible in them, and we must also be less dependent on countries such as China for a number of products.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u61	I would like to start by saying that I think we should all take a serious look at the cost of care. You have to face it, whether you're a right-wing party or a left-wing party. You also have to make choices in how to keep care affordable. I think those choices also mean that you have to look at how we organized the care. Market forces are not always conducive to the smart organisation of care. This leads to additional costs for market forces. But I also think it is important to see what exactly we are spending a lot of money on. You can see that in curative care we are reasonably in line with other countries, but in long-term care, care for the elderly, we have outliers. This also has to do with the fact that some of the housing costs for care for the elderly are on the healthcare budget. So one could also say that it does not matter whether those care costs are on the healthcare budget or on another budget. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that we should look very closely at what we are spending this money on, and that perhaps you should conclude that our healthcare budget is a little more substantial than that in neighbouring countries, but that there are other things that we also consider important, such as living for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u62	I would not just like to look at next year's budget. I really want to look at the longer term. I hope we can do the same with a new cabinet. In fact, I see that the demand for care is going to increase enormously as a result of the ageing of the population. I believe that we can make a number of improvements to this system and that elements of market operation can certainly still be very useful to maintain efficiency. I think that within that system we should look at the solutions to this affordability. Not to be annoying, but my colleague is still going into the curative part and into long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u63	You're pursuing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u64	Mr. Chairman. I said it in relation to corona, but it also applies to the rest of the care: we need to learn from good examples and experiences. If pilots in care work well, we need to work on it more broadly. We have to share good examples so that they are widely used. A good example is the experience with a longer general practitioner consultation. It is indicated that this leads to less care costs, as there is more attention to the patient, better conversation, more prevention or better and efficient treatment and less unnecessary referrals. So we would like to continue with that. How does the Minister look at this and is an evaluation available?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u65	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u66	I would like to comment on the fact that Mrs De Vries just mentioned that people should still be able to eat that little fries war. I notice that this is typical of the prevention policy that the VVD always pursues, as if we were banning people from a little war here. There is no such ban at all, but you yourself regularly quote that report from the Scientific Council for Government Policy. It states that prevention must become the core of preventing this high cost of care in the future. Then it is typical of you to quote exactly that, not to ban it. We need to look at how we can seduce people, but we certainly need a more binding approach to prevention. The Scientific Council for Government Policy also calls it 'the core of one of the solutions'. So are you finally prepared, even as a VVD, to look at the real possibilities that prevention offers and which are also needed, rather than constantly stressing that we are going to ban everything, which is simply not true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u67	I agree with the Animal Party that you should focus on prevention and see where health benefits can be obtained. I think that we may differ on the solutions that should lead to this. We have, of course, also indicated that the National Prevention Agreement is a starting point for us. There are also a number of measures that people will not like at all and that people in my constituency will not like at all. But we do think we should take those steps. Furthermore, I think we differ on how best to achieve that. I think that you should also support these measures and that you should also support the people. My experience is that banning sounds very nice, but that is not the way we first look at prevention. But I really share that this will be one of the important elements and that we must also make a strong commitment to this health benefit. I also hope that we can make that clear in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u68	Now it's about banning it again, and I don't think there's anyone here, not even the Animal Party, who says that. That is the characteristic of prevention policy. They immediately call out: yes, but then we start banning people things. That is not the case. It's about the fact that we're still giving people the feeling of having their own choice, but that's not the case at all. The Scientific Board for Government Policy says that, scientists say it and doctors say it. You are seduced by advertising and by the immense marketing campaigns of supermarkets to make unhealthy choices. There's the crux of the problem. The problem isn't in the fact that someone here forbids anything. I find that disturbing. You're actually saying we're making different choices. But then as a VVD you also make different choices than science and doctors in the Netherlands. They represent a better prevention policy. It would really adorn the VVD if she would also listen to those scientists and doctors. They say: the solutions are in place and they are not prohibited, but they are a more binding approach, which is really necessary. I still miss the VVD in that. And with your plea about the fries and banning it, we're really not getting anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u69	Thank you. All through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u70	I think that we should state that we believe that this should continue to be possible, and that it should remain affordable for people as well. I think the Party for Animals is a little short of my story. I've told you to bet on that. The National Prevention Agreement contains a number of measures, such as the smoke-free generation, but also a number of measures to tackle obesity and alcohol abuse. I really do think that the VVD is inadequate if we take that as a starting point. There are also a number of measures for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u71	Prevention has, of course, material advantages for the future, if we are going to use them, but also in the here and now, and certainly also intangible. For that so-called freedom is a false freedom. Once addicted to, for example, sugar or smoking, it's damn hard to get rid of it. That also costs quite a lot of money. I would therefore like to ask specifically about prevention, and then the scientific side and the international side, where it has been proven what works. Will the VVD then agree to increase excise duties on cigarettes and introduce the sugar tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u72	No, that's not in our election program. We have made a number of agreements in the National Prevention Agreement, including on increases in excise duties, but we must also look at the consequences. At the moment that you are going to raise that price very much, people could look for it more in the illegal circuit, for example, or go abroad. You can say it's very easy to stop, but it's not. It's not that easy to stop. I have just made a proposal to look at preventive measures to make it possible for people to stop and support them, and also to see how to make that attractive to health insurers, so that it will pay more and invest more in them. I think that's a very nice solution. That may not be the solution that Mrs Gündoğan chooses, but I think you also have other ways of ultimately achieving the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u73	Smoking cessation is not a prevention of smoking. When you quit smoking, you try to help if someone's already addicted. That is extremely complex, I can say as a former smoker who had to make four attempts to get rid of smoking permanently. I also have absolutely no judgment on smokers. I'm an ex-smoker myself. I do have an opinion about the cigarette industry, which puts extra addictive stuff in it, so that underage young people become addicted. This is what I'm talking about. This is the scientific and international part of it. When you increase the excise duty on cigarettes, significantly fewer minors start smoking. That's where the health gain comes in. The same applies to the sugar tax, and this is also demonstrated by several countries such as Norway, France, the United Kingdom and Mexico. You can do that very progressively. The point is that we are also beginning to become a very fat country. This is going to bring with it all kinds of health problems. I am therefore concerned with the real prevention, not with the ex post repair of curative care or whatever. Here, now, prevention. That's all I care about. My question to the VVD then remains: do you want real prevention or do you want to finance a patch of curation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u74	I think it is a pity that only increases in excise duties or sugar taxes are the means to ensure that people are less fat. I think you really need to look at where you can get the health benefits. For example, we look very much at sports and move. We believe that this is a very important element to ensure that children, especially at a young age, do so and that they also have the space to be active in the neighbourhoods, for example on sports fields that are there. That is another way of looking at prevention. We can differ on that. We choose this way. We believe that this is a very important way of ensuring that we also tackle obesity. You choose another way, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u75	Of course, you are talking about the distribution of your own interruptions, but there will be 19 more speakers, Mrs Gündoğan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u76	I want to respond to this. The subject is of great concern to me. Here it is pretended that there can be a difference of opinion on the basis of an individual insight. I don't want to do that. I look at the figures in a country such as Australia or a state such as California, which have significantly increased tobacco duty and clearly in a very short period of time have far fewer minors who smoke. The Trimbos Institute in the Netherlands has calculated that there will be significantly fewer young people smoking if cigarettes go up in price. These are the facts. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries, through the President, if she would take the facts and not the thoughts. I also have all kinds of thoughts, but the facts of international institutions, proven effects and proven measures. The same applies to the sugar tax. So I'm talking about a true commitment to a smoke-free generation and a less thick generation, and that fits nicely with the WRR report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u77	I always find it very difficult when we try to discredit each other's intentions. I believe that we also intend to do the right thing and to ensure that we get to work on this prevention. I have also indicated to you that the increase in excise duty is in the National Prevention Agreement. We have taken this step to tackle smoking and ensure the smoke-free generation, and that continues. So I also think it's a caricature of each other: like we don't want anything with this area. No, we also choose things like sports and moving. We choose to look at how we can put health insurance companies in place to ensure that we support and help people with this prevention, so help them quit smoking and become obese. It's important to me that it touches me when it comes to intentions, because I have the same intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u78	Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u79	I don't think I was talking about intentions that way. I was clearly talking about intentions to look at the facts of scientific institutes and international investigations. I was talking about taking it as a lead and just leaving the intentions out of the scope, because it's just one thing that binds us and can bind us. We're allowed to disagree on everything else. I hope that in politics we will at least take the facts as facts and not begin to discuss them. In that case, it seems logical to me that international studies and scientific studies should be included, that excise duty on tobacco should be further increased in the Netherlands and that it is time to introduce the sugar tax. That is what I would just like to emphasise once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u80	I can keep repeating it. I think you should look at the facts of what has been done over the past few years. A National Prevention Agreement has been reached. We have taken steps in this direction. We also want to look at other things, such as sports and moving. I think that's also crucial for people to gain health benefits. That is where we choose a different route. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on. Many useful lessons are also learned in the fight against waste. For example, Dutch patients receive almost 0.5 billion euros of medical devices at home each year, including wound dressing, incontinence material, stoma bags and medical nutrition. It is estimated that one third of all medical supplies are discarded unused. What is the Minister going to do extra to prevent waste? Mr. Chairman. When you receive care, you should be able to trust that the care is proven to be effective and appropriate and that the treatment you receive gives you the best outcomes. The VVD agrees with the WRR that we should stop compensating for inappropriate care and take into account what medically are the best outcomes for the patient. How is the Minister going to take this advice from the WRR and prepare for the next cabinet? In addition, the WRR states that certain treatments have never been conclusively established whether they are proven to be effective and cost-effective. So we pay for care the supposed effect of which is not or hardly to be demonstrated. At present, only a small part of the new care is explicitly assessed for cost-effectiveness. The WRR proposes to broaden the scope of package management and not only to test medicines for effectiveness, but also other forms of care, including Wlz, ggz and youth care. Is the Minister going to pick this up and prepare? Finally, Mr President, on this point. Financial management at the Ministry of VWS must be good. What progress has been made with regard to the Ministry's financial recovery plan, which was drawn up following the unlawfulness of the annual report? We received a letter on this, but at the time the Minister indicated that there would be an external review of progress. How was it included in this letter? Mr. Chairman. It looks like an open door, but the VVD wants the patient to be central to the care. For the many people who work with heart and soul in care every day, that is fortunately the case. Unfortunately, this does not always apply to the way in which we organized business. Recently I spoke to an ALS patient who had to deal with three health care laws: the Health Insurance Act, the Social Support Act and the Long-Term Care Act. Those were pretty much ground in between. Again and again a new indication that is time-consuming: that time does not have an ALS patient. A patient should not suffer from the question of what form of care or support should be governed by what law. That patient should be able to contact a single point of contact in the event of questions. How is the Minister going to solve these problems? Mr. Chairman. People who need long-term care deserve even more to be at the centre if possible. I am happy to give the floor to my colleague Ockje Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u81	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. Then I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen of the VVD. I'm hoping to suspend for dinner break around 7:30. Let's see how far we get. But almost everyone is through his interruptions, so... Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u82	Mr. Chairman. In the neighborhood where I live, there are five primary schools and five nursing homes. A few years ago, when I was visiting one of my children's classrooms in one of the nursing homes to make Christmas christmas pieces together, I got an idea. Why wouldn't these five schools each adopt a house? Why wouldn't every elementary school take care of one of those nursing homes? The schools and houses were immediately enthusiastic. "Young meets old," that's what the initiative was called. The other day, I ran into some of the students from one of the schools. They took a walk through the park with a number of residents. The caretaker, who recognized me, walked along, waved and said: this still does so much more than any kind of medication. It's about that meeting, the attention. That's where people descend days, if not weeks. Young meets old. It's a form of looking back at each other I believe in. Don't forget each other and do something for another might be more important than ever. In the corona crisis, that became very clear. Everyone saw how hard it was being worked against the cliffs by all the health care workers. Many wanted to help them and also put their hands out of their sleeves. That's what happened. Spontaneous and out of nowhere the most beautiful initiatives emerged. While my brother was lying with a ventilator tube in his throat on the ic of the LUMC, I also felt the need to contribute. I spoke to the director of a home care organization from the neighborhood where I live. She was very concerned about the huge lack of protective equipment for her staff. Everything was missing: mouth caps, glasses, gloves. That's how the idea came into being to collect fireworks glasses. I made a call through social media and within no time my whole garden was full of glasses. They came from everywhere. Everyone contributed. At the beginning of this year there was a flower supplier so nice to make available hundreds of tulip bulbs that he couldn't lose for free. Together with him and a lot of other volunteers we visited sick and lonely people who could use a heart in these corona times. The meeting between young and old, the fireworks glasses and the flower bulbs: they are examples of small gestures, but above all of little effort, which can make a difference. In addition to the loving and professional help people need in long-term care, it is precisely these initiatives that are likely to be more important now and in the near future. Mr President, I see you looking. Why does she mention these personal initiatives? Well, not to beat myself on the chest, like, "Look at me look at someone else." I call them because we are faced with a great challenge as a society, to which we all may have done more than we have done so far to do our part. We need to look at the possibility of calling in informal, non-medical assistance more often, where that is and can be justified. But we also need to do even more work on smart care and prevention. In this way, we not only enable people to spend as long as possible in their own lives; we can also relieve and support our care staff. Mr. Chairman. It's an open door, but I'm gonna say it once more: care is about people. It's not about the laws and regulations we've made to organise that care. Especially at this time when there is much to do about implementation, it is important to ask us again and again: what are people up against? What could be better in practice? Many say: leave the system of long-term care, complex as it is now, intact. Leave it like it is now. But solve the bottlenecks. I would like to mention two points of improvement within the system. I'll take a sip of water. Is that gonna go away from my time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u83	Let's stop the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u84	We want to see the three laws, which are the pillars of long-term care under the system, strengthen and complement each other better. It's a terrible policy word, but we need to get to the slippage. This can be done by making more work of the so-called person-next funding, where the starting point is not the law, but the person who needs the care. The carer really talks with the client about his or her need; together they see how this can be fulfilled. Think of Mrs. Jansen, who might want to go to the hairdresser weekly, while Mr. De Vries likes to take another evening walk after dinner. Good care, good support, is customization. This way of working contributes to direction, mutual understanding and transparency. A careful first start are the pilots in the nursing homes, with which positive experiences have been gained. Are these being rolled out nationwide now? Is the minister also going to involve nursing home care at home in these pilots? Mr. Chairman. Another point of improvement is quality and prevention. Municipalities, health offices and health insurance companies may have sufficient opportunities to work on quality, but, according to research, the instruments they have are not always fully exploited. For example, municipalities can impose strict quality requirements by purchasing Wmo care instead of using an open house construction. For that, a bill is here in the Chamber. But all this is still happening too little. That is not strange either, because measuring quality in long-term care is something completely different from measuring quality in the cure, which my colleague De Vries just spoke about. It's not about plaster, which needs to be properly laid because otherwise the fracture doesn't heal nicely. No, it's much more about quality of life, how people feel, what needs they have. How do you make that quality in long-term care more insightful? There is still progress to be made in the area of prevention. For example, municipalities are still not sufficiently encouraged to do this; the incentives are also such a word that I'm not a fan of, but that is where it is. For a congregation that currently installs a stair lift at someone's home has the costs, but not the benefits, because they fall down in another law. That's what I'm talking about when I got fired. I think we can do this differently. Three professors recently wrote an interesting article about this. They're actually arguing for three things. Find ways to better use the existing purchasing tools for quality. Improve information on quality, and ensure that it is consistent and easily accessible to the client. Ensure that the costs and benefits of prevention can be shared among the systems. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the people we all actually do it for. First of all, our elders. The demographic impact of ageing on long-term care is the challenge. A crass older man, with whom I spoke recently about aging, said it nicely: it's not about more care, but it's about fewer patients. It's a wise statement. For, so he said, you know that one day you will become old and needy; you can prepare for that. My first question at this point is: how are we going to get people to prepare for that old age and start thinking about where they want to live, what are their desires when they become dependent on care? The challenge is, of course, to ensure that older people remain vital for as long as possible and that we do everything we can to delay dependency on care for as long as possible. That's our goal. Prevention is very important here. That is in many areas. It's very important to keep moving. Can the Secretary of State say a little more about what is already happening at municipal level to allow older people, for example, to engage in sports activities in cooperation with local football clubs? How do we stimulate this type of community activity? But prevention is also preventing people from falling. We all know that intensive care often starts with something as simple as a trap. Investing in fall prevention pays off. Not only do we make older people more self-reliant, but we also save care costs. I would therefore like to call for a national programme for prevention of falls. Would the Minister be willing to look into this? Along with prevention lies innovation, smart care. I spoke to a director of the health care facility, Aunt Louise, the other day. Here they give residents with dementia more room for movement by making them wear wristbands that give access to different spaces and areas. Especially for people with dementia, moving and maintaining a sense of freedom are very important and above all: do not end up in a closed area. It is wonderful that innovation in this way can contribute to quality of life. My glasses fall off my nose all the time; that's very annoying. Other beautiful examples I saw in the care home where my aunt lives, which is multi-disabled. Here they work with clever incontinence material and with a sensor that records movement in bed. These are practical forms of support that improve care. My father, who isn't the youngest anymore, was able to face-time with his disabled sister the other day. How special is that? And how wonderful is it that the health care institutions are also working on this so incredibly? I ask the Minister how we make that flywheel even more effective. How are we going to ensure that all these innovations are scaled up nationwide? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the elderly, there are many more people who are often dependent on care throughout their lives. Whether it is a long-term seriously ill child, a visually impaired woman or a man with MS, we want to maintain long-term care for them. Many of them want to maintain as much independence as possible and as much self-direction as possible. In this context, I would like to know from the Minister what is going on with the pgb 2.0. Have concrete results been achieved in reducing administrative burdens? I come back to the beginning of my story about small community initiatives and why they are and will remain so important, and about the great challenges we face. With growing demand for care and fewer staff, the use of carers will only increase. The 5 million carers in our country who are currently fully committed to supporting someone in their immediate vicinity deserve our support. Half a million people feel overloaded. That's what I'm afraid will not be any less, so how do we help them? Especially proving you're a caretaker seems like a thorn in the eye of anyone who takes care of a neighbor. What are the minimum requirements for community support? Can we bring this more into line? How can we make respite care and accommodation accessible everywhere? I'd like a response from the Minister. In fact, this was already the subject of yesterday's debate on Mrs Ellemeet's note. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a complex but very important subject: end of life care. This concerns good, professional and loving care in the final phase of life. Together with a number of pioneers from the field who have been struggling to put this topic on the map for some time now, I am working on a plan to give this kind of care priority. Yes, money is being invested, 43 million, but everything is very fragmentedly organized. The challenge now is to bring everything together, because in the last phase of life, big questions can be addressed, for example to refrain from treatment if it does not lead to improvements in the quality of life or the desire to die at home. Often people are still hospitalized in these last months, so their last wish to die at home cannot be met. That's the kind of thing we want to avoid. I therefore hope that we will be able to create a cultural change, not only for the health professionals but also for the people themselves. Preparing for ageing and becoming vulnerable concerns everyone. So I would like to see information from the government on everything that affects this subject. Mr. Chairman. It is also time for a national awareness campaign. Anyone who wants quality and direction in the final phase of his or her life would do well to think about his or her wishes early. Have that conversation, not only with your neighbors, but also with a GP. I would like the government to be more active in encouraging people to do so. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u85	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u86	I would like to make one point out of the fine examples given by Mrs Tellegen in her speech. They were often personal examples. That point is about the desire of people in the final phase of life to die at home instead of in a hospital. That was only with me and my father-in-law. That's my personal experience at that point. You see how important and valuable it is, but it could only really be because my wife as a nurse could provide that very intensive care. I was actually shocked by how many stories there were of people saying: but that night care, so that people can die at home, there is no more. That is a very concrete point that affects quite a lot of people. How does Mrs Tellegen view that? What more could we do for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u87	This example is an excellent example of why I am advocating this. I am convinced that all the parties here in this Chamber agree that we must also be able to provide the best possible care in the final phase of a person's life. It is true what Mr Van der Staaij says, that it is often very labour-intensive care that requires a great deal from the healthcare provider. It also requires a lot of the knowledge and skill of the healthcare provider. At the moment there are all kinds of good intentions, intentions, pilots, etc. But a robust story, around that whole spectrum of end-of-life care and palliative care, is not there. That is exactly why I would like us to pay much more attention to that and ask for it. In fact, it is my firm belief that, if we focus more on this, we will not only improve the quality of life in the last phase of life, but we will also have all kinds of side effects. We then no longer have to provide certain care, because it is often simply the wish of people to die at home. Yes, there may be consequences for that too. This requires a different mindset from all players in the field. But I'm sure we should all go this way, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u88	I will also ask about, for example, the bottlenecks in palliative care. We have previously adopted a motion to highlight the problems of funding and sometimes access. That is very recognizable, but I can also see that sometimes it is very difficult to get that night care nurse, for example. We can all make nice plans, but if we do not address that very concrete point, there will not be much of a desire to let people die at home instead of in a hospital. Do you recognize these bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u89	Yeah, totally. Of course. This also affects the issue of staffing and the shortage of staff. This kind of care also requires specifically trained staff. That doesn't change the fact that I'm going to continue writing that note. I see that there are problems here which are linked to the budget. But I do think we have a very good first step if we can all say here alone, hopefully, that this kind of care is just as important as curative care, and should also have the same level of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u90	I have a question that is not on a subject mentioned by Mrs Tellegen or her colleague. But it is about a subject that we consider very important, namely the number of people who have no roof over their heads. The number of people in the Netherlands who have no home, or no roof over their head, has doubled over the past decade. Not only do I find that morally reprehensible, but that's also bad for the wallet. Research carried out by the VWS Ministry itself shows that every euro you invest in someone in advance to prevent it from yielding money, almost double even. I would like to ask Mrs Tellegen if she agrees with us on the following. The programme that the Ministry now has, in which 200 million is invested to prevent people from becoming homeless, is now being discontinued. I can't think of any substantive reason for that. That probably has something to do with the formation. Does she agree with me that it is very important to prevent homelessness and therefore to continue these kinds of valuable programs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u91	Mrs Westerveld is asking me a bit, because it is indeed not my area. When I hear you like this, you can't say overnight that we're gonna drop these people again. I am not familiar with the programme, but I am sure that the programme was not simply created. I also do not know what the cabinet's arguments are for shutting down the programme. So I do not know a lot, because I do not know whether you have tabled an amendment on this subject for an x amount. I understood that. Then I would have to look at how that amount has been substantiated and what coverage it has. I agree with you on the fundamental idea that the number of people without a roof is increasing in the Netherlands and that we should not leave them in the cold. So I'd like to know why we're shutting down this program, if the program has produced proven effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u93	I'm almost at the end and I'm finishing up. Whether it's people we want to make better or people who need care throughout their lives or at the end of it, care must be loving. Thousands of healthcare workers are committed to this every day. Let us make sure that we work with them and that the way we organise things here supports them and does not oppose them. That should be our ambition. And yes, we will have to make sharp choices in the coming years. If we do it right, if we organize it properly, those two can go hand in hand. I would like to work on this with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u94	Thank you, Mrs Tellegen. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, of course, is a very good time to look back on four years of this minister's health policy and this Secretary of State, but I am afraid that we will not escape to look at the health situation in particular at the moment. Because it's going the wrong way; I think everyone can see that. Hospitals are dealing with withdrawal stops and operations are being postponed. There are people who have been waiting for a necessary operation for more than a year. As far as the SP is concerned, that is not acceptable. It is toe-curious that, under a cabinet that watched the IJsselmeer hospitals shut down and how the Slotervaart hospital was closed, we now have to talk about the major shortages in hospital care. Under the guise of "competition" and "efficiency" there has been an increase in scale everywhere, but now that the pressure is so high, this efficiency is mainly due to the distribution of scarcity. Unfortunately, this creates major contradictions in our society. Groups of patients are now facing each other because there is not enough room. I find it very regrettable that this Minister is further encouraging that fire by laying the blame for all of this on vaccine refusers. I would like to ask the Minister if he thinks that is the best strategy for increasing the number of vaccinations in our country. Is he gonna take care of the older people who don't take flu shots? Is he going to take care of smokers, runners or careless people who end up in the hospital? Why does he choose to be bipartisan and not convince people to be vaccinated? Why does he not come up with solutions to deal with the major shortages in care? There are too few new caregivers trained. Care pay has been falling behind for years. The bureaucracy is suffocating. Almost twenty Ice Divisions have been closed under the Rutte Cabinets, from Vlissingen to Winschoten and from Lelystad to Den Helder. Doesn't the Minister find it more logical to support care now rather than divide society further? Mr. Chairman. You would say that these directors would soon do better than their predecessors VVD Minister Schippers and PvdA Secretary Van Rijn. Let us not forget that much of the misery that we are seeing today is still the result of the disastrous blow that these two parties have caused under Rutte II. Think of cutting back and dumping care for vulnerable children in the municipalities. Think of closing the nursing homes, forcing people to stay at home. Think of the cuts on the Wmo, for example on household care. Think of removing places in the ggz, increasing your own risk and cutting back on the daily spending of old people. Think of those 80,000 healthcare workers that we now need so much and that have worked out the care over the past few years. Of course, the last four years should not only have been used to clean up the ruins of Rutte II, but also to break the policy of competition and market forces, which has been a source of concern for years. Unfortunately, this cabinet has missed many opportunities in this respect. After the demolition came not the construction, but the standstill. The market forces in care have actually only been abolished in the annual interviews of Minister De Jonge. It's still very simple to make money in care. Neighborhood nurses still see five different vans, cars, under the same flat. In the ggz it still pays to provide more light care and to put the patients who need complex care on a waiting list. In youth care, the choice is huge, but for children and young people who need intensive care is often not time or money. Mr. Chairman. For years, successive Cabinets have stimulated competition in health care. The healthcare system has become extremely complex. Those who become old and need care do not have one point of contact, because for medical complaints they have to go to the doctor. For support, the municipality needs to be called. For community care the health insurance provider must be called and for a place in the nursing home you must then be at the health care office or the CIZ. I have a feeling that in this country you can arrange a cabinet formation faster than your mother's care. This refurbished care also leads to shifting behavior. In municipalities that are financially poor, more elderly people go into long-term care. This was recently revealed by an article in ESB. I would like a response from the Minister to that article. Care has become a maze, in which more and more people get lost. Instead of putting an end to the maze, whole new professions have been rigged that do not care but help people find their way into the maze. I understand that, abroad, we are increasingly surprised by the fact that we have case managers, care consultants, healthcare buddies and healthcare agents. These are all people who have to help the elderly and other patients in the maze called "our care." In larger institutions we see the same thing. We've been given care buyers, controllers and care managers to work in the healthcare market. And that's kind of weird. What have you done with care if you can't get the care you need without a guide, broker or consultant, I'd like to ask the Minister. What have you done with care when thousands of people in health care institutions and municipalities are buying care and contracting instead of taking care of people? Can the Minister respond to that? And are both regiments now planning to do that differently? Mr. Chairman. That there's another way, we know. Why do we not choose to organise care for the elderly on a small scale and at a local and village level, without competition between providers and with good agreements between the community care and institution care? Let's give the elderly the choice between good care at home or a nice place in a health centre, as the SP likes to see it. Give people that choice. Allow people to get a place in a health centre much earlier than the moment when they are severely demented. Take care to the neighborhood, to the neighborhood, to the village. Work in fixed teams. Please provide caregivers with observatories instead of broken services. If we were to work from a national health fund, we would be able to organise joint care much smarter: without profits, without competition and with good cooperation. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I would also like to make a proposal for this. That we are going to investigate how we can get care for the elderly on the scale of the neighborhood or on the scale of the village organized. The fact that general practitioners, community care and the Zorgbuurthuis work closely together, and that the funding fits in with that. And that the care laws we have encourage cooperation instead of frustrating.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u96	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u97	You may be surprised, Mr. Hijink, but I agree with a lot of what you say. I think that a number of things need to be smaller, even closer to people. But I think I've also read the WRR's report, as you have. The WRR makes a very passionate plea, or actually gives the warning that the button "staff" is not much to run anymore. So we need to find other solutions. And yes, I agree with you: appreciation, training, salary... but the growth that is needed, we can no longer fill up with more staff. So what is the SP thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u98	The question is, of course, what staff does. We also discussed this last time in the debate. As an example, district nurses who work in the Utrecht districts of Shallip, Kanaleneiland, Overvecht and Zuilen. I lived there for a while. If they're supposed to be in the same service twice in all those neighborhoods, they're in the car over a third of their time. That was the case with these district nurses, and I think that is the case in many places. In the hospitals two out of five days go to the administration. In the ggz, it's much worse. 40% of the time goes on bureaucracy. So I get that you can't open a can of caregivers. That makes sense. But let's see what they're up to right now doing nonsense, and let's get them out of that bureaucracy. I'm sure that's gonna matter a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u99	Once again, I largely agree with Mr Hijink, but despite this, the WRR continues to say, among other things, that we cannot cope with this with current staff developments, so we cannot cope with this if we do not slow down the question of care and, for example, do not organise our care digitally, if we do not allow some people to wait a little longer and if we do not use common sense a little more. So what choices is the SP going to make to ensure that we do have enough people left for our children and grandchildren?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u100	I'm not so worried about that in that sense. I was just talking about care for the elderly. We can organise them from, for example, a Zorgbuurthuis or another form of a small-scale care facility in the neighbourhood, with a network of district nurses and a general practitioner working together in a team. In this way we are going to wipe out a great deal of bureaucracy; I can assure you that. Then we can save a huge amount of time that district nurses have now spent travelling, consulting or competing with their competitors. That time will therefore be of benefit to the care. I think that's important. Mrs Paulusma says: we have to keep people waiting longer for care. That's something the SP doesn't like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u101	Very briefly. Now I do not agree with you. I am not saying that people have to wait longer, but sometimes using common sense is also a very good thing. I know that as an old neighborhood nurse. And I am still looking forward to Mr Hijink's answer. What does the SP think we can stop doing to ensure that we have enough care staff left? And only that piece of paperwork isn't gonna help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u102	Well, let's stop the market forces and the competition. Let's cut the profits. That's gonna get us a lot, I can assure you. Stop working on the market, for example in municipal care. In some municipalities there are hundreds, up to 600 different providers, in the youth care sector. That's crazy, isn't it? That's where our money's headed right now. That's where the care money's headed right now. If we could organise this in another way, there would be a lot of time and money left for those young people, those children who do not have care now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u103	I know the SP as a party with a strong commitment to solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u104	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u105	As a CDA, we not only believe that we should share the cost of care for the present generation, but also that there should be sufficient room for the next generation to receive adequate care. I can go a long way with Mr Hijink and what he says about bureaucracy. If it were to reduce significantly, it would definitely allow for less workload and more effective care. But I have not yet heard from Mr Hijink how he thinks that the total cost of care can be controlled. Because you can take a piece of the care you want to give, so the hands on the bed, by less bureaucracy, but how does he want to avoid what we see now, namely that care is taking up an increasing proportion of the rich budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u106	Let me start by saying that I will not be fooled by the predictions for 2060. We have seen this in the past, I think, in 2006 and 2008. Every once in a while there will be an investigation in which hell and damnation is preached that in 10, 20, 30 years we will pay our full salary to the care. It's not a good time. That's not gonna happen. So those predictions that half of the Netherlands is going to work in healthcare are not going to happen, I can assure you. Why is that? Because we need to organise care in a different way. I just mentioned the example of care in the neighborhood. I have also mentioned our proposal for a national health fund, whereby you are going to eliminate the competition between insurers and all these numerous policies and options, making care much easier and more transparent. That's gonna matter a lot. It is true that there will eventually be an increase in healthcare costs; I think so too. I guess a lot of people don't mind at all. They are okay that care costs a lot of money, also because they want if their mother or their father needs that care, for whatever illness that is or for whatever place in any nursing or nursing home it is, that care is good. People like to pay for that. I'd rather pay a little more than on a waiting list. I'd rather pay more than solve everything all by myself, when you can't actually do that. That's just a piece of civilization that costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u107	Mr. Hijink says: I have no faith in future figures. But then I would like to ask Mr Hijink, in figure 3.4 of the report, to look at what history has been like by heart. That is where we see that the concern was a few percent of the rich budget and a quarter of the rich budget in the meantime. Mr. Hijink doesn't want to endorse what the future will bring. Take a look at the past how care has caused other areas, such as housing, such as education, such as police, to be under pressure, because more and more money is going to the care sector. What does Mr Hijink want to do about it, so that the next generation not only has adequate care, but also enough money for all those other public sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u108	The cost of care has been around 10% of our gross domestic product for years. If the previous cabinet had not been so bluntly cut, our GDP would have been much higher and that percentage would have been even lower. So you shouldn't let these scenarios drive yourself crazy. Mrs Van den Berg says that it is now much more than it used to be. Yeah, but are we all going bankrupt or something? Don't we have money for bread or a new television? None of that's going on, is it? Surely it is not because of the cost of care that we are in very serious trouble and in ten years' time we will not be okay at all? I honestly don't understand why people are so frightened about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u109	I think you should make a difference between the absolute amount and the percentage. I totally agree with Mr. Hijink that if the absolute amount is much higher than many years ago, that's no problem at all. Because if we all make more money, you can spend more on it. The same goes for the years to come. No, it's about the displacement, so the percentage we spend on care. There we can see in concrete terms that care does not allow for education and housing. We do not really have enough money to solve these problems in the social field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u110	Several things have just been said about this. I felt that Mrs Ellemeet was quite right to make a point, for example about our long-term care. I am in favour of us paying the nursing home care, or the more nursing home-like care, such as care neighbourhoods, from long-term care. This also means that you may also pay for the accommodation Mrs Ellemeet was talking about from the Wlz (Law on Long-Term Care). Well, that's up to the collective care costs. The alternative is to let everyone pay for it themselves. It's a pocket pocket. Like the parties, the VVD also has a hand from the care provider who says that people only have to pay more themselves. That doesn't make care cheaper, does it? If you increase your own risk to €1,000, the care will also not be cheaper. If we increase our own contribution, care will not be cheaper. We're only gonna finance it differently, otherwise we're gonna pay. So we have to take that with us. I do not think it would be a good thing if the costs in the WlZ were to increase if this meant that we would also pay for housing for a large group of older people. That sounds like a great plan. We need to do that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u111	We're not gonna work it out with Mr. Hijink tonight, is my conclusion. Again, the CDA wants us to work differently and work together, so that you can also do something about those costs, also to keep that care available for the next generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u112	I agree with that in words, but the CDA was at the heart of this healthcare system, in which cooperation was rather discouraged and competition with the introduction of the Health Insurance Act was encouraged. The cooperation was thus opposed. In words, I agree with you. Perhaps we could come a long way if we talked about it, but I do not think you can blame the SP for standing in the way of cooperation in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u113	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u114	Mr. Chairman. One of the lessons that we can learn from the corona crisis and the flu epidemic of 2017-2018 is that our hospital care is not able to withstand a long-term crisis. We've had ten years to close emergency and other departments. We've had recording stops. We've had hospital bankruptcies. We have seen a permanent struggle by hospitals, especially local hospitals, for their own survival. That's taking its toll now. Employees of all eight university hospitals in the Netherlands are laying down the work today: a historic strike in academic hospitals. Large groups of caregivers will receive only 1% salary next year in those hospitals. How will these caregivers pay the high energy bill and the more expensive groceries in the future, I would like to ask the cabinet. Will the Minister admit that more is needed to make work in care more attractive and to prevent more people from leaving care? Are these salaries finally going up to keep people for care? Do people finally get a say in their schedules and working hours? What exactly does this cabinet have to offer healthcare providers? Is there an extra investment in training doctors and nurses now? Mr. Chairman. The minister writes a letter on high feet to bedmaster Ernst Kuipers. "We know you can't scale up any further than 1,350 ic-beds, but do it anyway, and quickly!" That was kind of the tone of that letter. Does the Cabinet realize what it's doing? Does it ever occur to you that if you pull harder and harder on a rubber band, it snaps once in a while? Isn't it logical that care should look at politics instead of the other way around? Mr. Chairman. We can do much more to prevent illness and unnecessary treatments in the hospital. For example, we could prevent thousands of hospitalisations of children by including the rotavirus vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme. Why does the Secretary of State leave that choice to another cabinet? In addition, we could also do much more about prevention by giving the general practitioner much more room for this. Generalists would love more time for a patient. They don't want a ten-minute consultation. They want a 15-minute consultation. Smaller general practitioners with more attention to the patient provide less referrals to the hospital. With more time, the GP can also do much more about prevention by asking questions like: where do your medical complaints come from and are there problems at work or at home? This crucial role of the general practitioner has been undermined in recent years. Generalists need to do more now in less time. Three quarters of the general practitioners now indicate that the workload has become far too high. That negative spiral must now be broken as far as the SP is concerned. Can the cabinet respond to that? What is the Cabinet going to do to improve the position of the general practitioners? Can the practical standard not be further reduced so that a 15-minute consultation becomes the standard standard in every practice? We understand very well that the costs for the benefits are here, but if you look carefully at the tests they have done with this, you will see that it works. More time for a patient means fewer people going to the hospital. Shouldn't that appeal to the Cabinet? Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber there is a lot of talk about the cost of care, even just now. Then it's about spending in hospitals. At the same time, we let it happen that many people become unnecessarily ill or remain unhealthy. That's very strange. All government campaigns for healthy food are opposed by a powerful food industry, which does everything in its power to make a lot of money from unhealthy food. Since 2014, agreements have been made between the food industry and the Ministry, but seven years later we know that these agreements have delivered virtually nothing. We started eating a little bit less salt, so the RIVM determined. A whole club of organizations, which are now united in the Healthy Generation, think it's time to stop the non-committal towards the food industry. For example, the Heart Foundation, the Long Fund and the Diabetes Fund are included. This alliance says, as the SP has been saying for a long time, that legal requirements must be imposed on what is in our food. That would, of course, be very sensible: legal standards governing the quantity of sugar, fat and salt in certain products. That is also much fairer in the eyes of the SP than taxing people in the supermarket through a sugar tax. Does the Secretary of State consider it logical that the government should conduct expensive overweight campaigns, while it is still allowed to put more than 30 sugars of sugar in a bottle of coke? What exactly makes sense? How can overweight campaigns be successful if the cabinet continues to allow industry to keep people addicted to sugar and fat? My final question, therefore, is this: is the Secretary of State prepared to move away from the non-binding agreements and to make legal demands on the amount of salt, sugar and fat in our food? Does he also want to look at marketing, which is now often targeted specifically at children? We all know it when we walk in the grocery store: screaming packages with cartoon characters and other types, making your kids grab the stuff you don't want. Does the Secretary of State not agree that it would be logical to make it impossible for manufacturers to advertise children when products are clearly bad? We would like to put a line through that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u115	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66. Then we have dinner suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u116	Mr President, I am happy to see time running out. Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking here tonight on behalf of my colleague Jeanet van der Laan, but we have one ambition and thus one story. Mr. Chairman. I sometimes took one of my children in my home care route because I couldn't get the care around, but also because my children were very curious. Are we going to those super-old people, Mom? Because they found it fascinating that you can grow so old. We do that getting old, of course, but good care helps. In many ways, the Netherlands can be proud of the care we provide. I was a local nurse often, but the corona crisis has also shown a very fragile side of how we organise care. That side was always there, but it came full to the surface now. Our concern is vulnerable when it comes to supply and demand. But the past period was also vulnerable, poignant and sad, because children could no longer visit their parents in nursing homes, care was postponed and population surveys were stopped. People went to the GP late, sometimes too late, with all the consequences. We felt as potential patients responsible for not overloading care further. At the same time, the care took the responsibility we entrusted to her. We asked for optimal bets and got more, much more, than that back. I would therefore like to thank all my former colleagues in the healthcare sector, who continue to work with heart and soul every day, but above all very professionally and skilfully. Mr. Chairman. It has been mentioned a number of times: the Scientific Council for Government Policy came with a clear message last September. The sustainability of our care is under pressure, because of the costs, because of the availability and capacity of professionals, and because of increasing demand. The WRR but also the care itself ask us for sharp choices. We should, because if we do nothing, healthcare expenditure will increase from 12.7% to 20% between 2015 and 2060. By way of illustration, there will be more budgeted for Care next year than for Education, Culture and Science, Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation, Defence, Justice and Security, and Infrastructure and Water State together. Also, one in seven is now working in the care sector. In 40 years, that's gonna have to be one in three if we're gonna go on like we're doing right now. These are all people and resources that we can only use once, with money that we do not spend on education, climate and security. Smart, future-proof choices are therefore essential. For example, healthcare choices in Map reported that with a significant investment in digitalisation, we are achieving a saving of 300 million euros per year. This is not only financially very beneficial, but also works in a positive way with workload. An example of this smarter organisation is the digital organisation of the medication transfer, so that every healthcare provider knows what medication you take, and there are no mistakes or waste in it. With all parties in the starting blocks, D66 wants money to be made available for the kick-start of this digital medication transfer. We also intend to table an amendment to this. Mr. Chairman. The increasing pressure on care is certainly also due to the ageing population. That has also been mentioned a number of times. But it is also due to the rapid development of new, expensive medicines, medical devices and treatments. We want and can do more and more. But do we have to make use of everything? As far as we are concerned, this is an important question, especially if it is our aim and our job to ensure that care remains accessible and affordable for everyone, for now, but also for future generations. Mr. Chairman. In addition to making critical choices in healthcare, the broad improvement of our health is important. Because health is more than care. Other factors in the living environment, such as clean air, a good housing policy and an effective debt approach are essential to promote health and prevent diseases. Unfortunately, inequality of opportunity also largely determines the health course of people. For D66 it is impossible for people with lower education to live 15 years shorter in good health and die six years earlier. We can't do this, and we have to do this differently. When I cycle in Groningen from Groningen-Zuid to Groningen-Noord, I come to neighbourhoods where people live fifteen years longer or shorter, depending on whether they live in Groningen-South or Groningen-Noord. That difference is far and far too great. The same applies to the increase in diseases that are lifestyle-related. Think of diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Every day 150 people are told that they have diabetes. Today I read the very disturbing report in the newspaper that people with diabetes are also living 15 years shorter. More than 1.1 million Dutch people have prediabetes. In many circumstances this can be prevented with a healthier lifestyle. This doesn't just have to be hard work, it can be fun. In Rotterdam-Zuid a number of GPs work with the so-called "loop recipe": not pills but a block with your GP. D66 believes that people should be well informed about how to live healthier. So that can also be great walking. But we also think it is important that people take more responsibility in the choices they make. Where this is not possible, the government must also help, because only together can we work towards the healthy and, as far as we are concerned, the healthiest generation in 2040. Mr. Chairman. Think to get there for example the healthy lunch. When children learn to eat healthy food, this contributes to making healthier choices at a later age. That is a proven effective measure, not just for health. 'Cause I saw in East Groningen what it does to kids when your lunchbox shows how big your parents' wallet is. 'Cause if your parents are having a hard time, chances are you're gonna have to go to school with an empty drum. Lunch together removes that inequality. Healthier ageing is also essential to relieve our care. First of all, it is very nice for the elderly themselves if they can get fit and healthy at an age, but fit 70-plussers are also very valuable to our society. That can't be said often enough. Because they do a lot of volunteering and often provide care. Healthy ageing therefore pays in different ways. A quick win to get healthier aging is what Mr Tellegen has already mentioned. A program where older people learn how to fall, because sometimes it's good to know how to take care of themselves, but also how to prevent them. This can prevent many unnecessary visits to the emergency room. The stakes are just not systematic. Who takes the lead in this kind of proven effective methods? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u117	I agree on the healthy school lunch. We tabled a motion together last year to at least have scenarios with ways of working this out. We thought that the time has come to continue to pin those scenarios down. So we have tabled an amendment on this. I wonder if D66 thinks it is a good idea to continue working on that healthy school lunch now, please in the form of this amendment or on the basis of other options that D66 envisages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u118	I think you know our election program a little bit. One of the points in this is the healthy school lunch, or rather the rich school day, so that inequality of opportunity is avoided at a very young age. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we are working on this in a structural manner, as we have campaigned for it. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we need to look for ways and methods of sustaining this for a longer term than perhaps for the present budget. I think it might also be a very good idea for the negotiations that are taking place, but then I might be getting ahead of myself. But a healthy school lunch is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u120	I already said something about trap prevention. Mr. Chairman. Health is about feeling good both physically and mentally. Mental health is high on the agenda at D66. A few weeks ago, the Manifest Main Affairs was launched, an initiative to exchange knowledge and research between different disciplines. This is an extremely important step, not only in pooling knowledge and improving supply, but also in reducing costs. The bottlenecks identified in the manifesto are the bulkheads and the various financial flows that discourage the cooperation we want. How can we change this? How can we in the broadest sense do cross-disciplinary research to promote, otherwise finance and stimulate health? I would also like to comment on this. Mr. Chairman. It sounds a bit like an open door, but prevention is better than cure. Everyone understands that. What we do not understand then is why, for the coming year, expenditure on prevention has fallen. We've also made it very difficult for ourselves. In the Netherlands, for example, we use a four times lower cost-effectiveness limit for a preventive measure than for a curative measure. Now up to €20,000 per year of life won is spent on prevention. This compares with €80,000 for curative bets. In other words, we allocate more value to the patch than to prevent it from falling. Is it not time to take action and re-assess preventive action? Shouldn't as much commitment as possible go to prevention instead of continuing treatment? 'Cause suppose we're gonna vaccinate with the rota vaccine that's been called "fine" so that every year 3,500 fewer babies have to go to the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u121	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u122	Yeah, I saw her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u123	I very much agree that you should give much more value to prevention, but does Mrs Paulusma agree with me that prevention should also be an earning model? Because if it is true that treatments do not actually pay and prevention, then agreements are too thin. Does she support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u124	I think that preventive efforts should be a earning model for all of us, because they delay disease and put health first. I believe that all our efforts should be aimed at taking prevention as seriously as treatment. That is why I also made a plea about the cost-effectiveness limit. I think we should do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u125	I'm going to go into it a little more specifically. I believe that prevention should be legally anchored. I have tabled a motion on this too. He made it, but it hasn't been settled yet. If necessary, I will take my own initiative. I also think you should look at how to make a earning model of prevention, just to create that transition. Many regional care parties say, out of good will, that they want to work together on prevention, but ultimately it pays more to open up that one dbc. So I ask you in a very specific way: are we able to create a earning model for prevention in order to actually assign it the value we both see?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u126	I think we can get a whole end together. For me alone, preventive action and the commitment we need to show in this area are not just about care. A lot of preventive efforts are not just in preventing illness, making sure that people do not have to go to hospital and prevent a dbc from being opened, but in ensuring that people can just breathe healthy air, that they can play around the corner, that they can exercise and move and that they have a healthy lunch. The common thread in our plea is therefore: let's not solve everything in healthcare. Yes, we must do what is effective, especially when it comes to proven preventive action, but we must also look for the solution outside the care domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u127	This is a bit about my question, because of course we agree on this. You have to look at people wider than just asking the question: do you have stomach pains or do you have abdominal pain? That could be stress, mental problems you're on a waiting list for or a problem with a child. So we share that broad aspect. At the same time, we also recognize that if you want to treat someone with obesity, for example, you have to look at the whole person. It may be more effective to have them come to a general practitioner's consultation more often than to take other measures. But that means that you have to assign a value to it in the form of money. That's what I call the "earning model." Because if you solve it only by means of chords, I do know where it ends in the end. Then the treatment wins over some more preventive action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u128	Yeah, but I don't think we're talking past each other. I think we're very much in agreement. I'm just not getting into shape right now. I think we should facilitate it. I think we should also give doctors more space, resources and time to do whatever you were just talking about, but it should also pay off. Because I also know from my own experience that the doctor said: "If I direct a patient now, I know that he does not end up well or is not being helped properly. So I'll do it myself." Then the doctor writes a dbc that doesn't really belong to that patient. So there's also a perverse stimulus on the other side. So I think we can find each other very much, but maybe a little less about the shape at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u129	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u130	I think I was working on the rota vaccine, because I asked whether our commitment should not be much more about prevention rather than overtreatment. For suppose we bring the invitation interval of the population research into breast cancer back to two instead of three years and say that we allow women to do a test of their own at home to detect cervical cancer... Those "what if" or "what if" questions are questions that we should not be asking ourselves and can not actually afford to prevent disease and thus save costs. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It has been mentioned a number of times: the care is under pressure. In addition to a broad commitment to prevention, we also need to make changes to how we organise it, so that we are again talking about the outcome rather than just the treatment. As far as D66 is concerned, we have to listen very carefully to the signals from healthcare professionals, but also to patients. I often said it in my work as a neighbourhood nurse: the patient is central. But the practice is really many times more uncomfortable. D66 wants patients to have structural participation. Patients' associations have an important role to play in this. D66 wants to strengthen patients' associations by a better organisation to decide together to take them to a higher level. We are only hearing a great deal of concern from the field about the subsidy scheme for disabled and patient associations as of 2022. I'd like a response. Patients should also be able to opt for physical or digital care as far as D66 is concerned. If this doesn't happen on its own, we need to record it and make it possible. We believe that every patient has the right to digital care. That's how we get care closer to home. I would also like to comment on this. Mr. Chairman. To have a voice as a patient, access to tailor-made information is essential, including for patients and close relatives with barriers to digital skills or language skills. For people for whom the Dutch language is not yet their own, their children now often play interpreter. They translate complicated and emotional conversations for their parents. "Mama, you have cancer" won't let you translate a 11-year-old. However, interpretation provision is not centrally regulated in the Netherlands, partly because it runs against different financial flows. Who's in charge of this? I would also like to comment on this. A few weeks ago we talked about the labour market in health care. Good steps have already been taken, but far from enough. This also shows the popular #care infarct in a harsh way, in which care workers on social media show where it gets stuck. At the time, I made a plea for more control and for a collective agreement of my own for nurses and nurses. Let me say that the outside reactions were more enthusiastic than the Minister's response. I am therefore going to ask the Minister once again to get to work on the right decision, and to invite the social partners to discuss a separate collective agreement. That can also be done in missionary status. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a question about catching up. That subject is getting more and more topical as the corona infections begin to rise again. There is a lot of uncertainty about how many people are actually still on the waiting list, but also about which patients are necessarily to be helped in the hospital or about which patients may no longer need help, because walking with the GP might also be sufficient. Shouldn't we also distribute regular catch-up care, like corona care, nationwide, so that we can shorten waiting lists and reduce the pressure on hospitals? I'd like a response. Mr President, finally, at the end of my story and quite frankly also at the end of my oxygen, I would like to say something about lung covid, something that affects me personally... Excuse me, I knew I would get emotional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u131	Maybe a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u132	That's a good tip. It's something that affects me personally, and you'll notice. Because like many Dutch people I have had covid. And like many Dutch people, more than seven months later, I am still struggling with long-term complaints. During my recovery, I discovered how little is known about lung covid and how much remains to be done for patients. The recently announced extra money for research into long covid in response to the ten-point plan I wrote is very important and fine, but lung covid patients now indicate that they also need more contact and contact with each other in addition to research. I've seen that myself. In addition to a few well-meaning websites and Facebook pages, there are few professional places where you can go with your peers. From research and experience abroad, we know that peer groups can be useful. Patients find support from each other and from experts, which offers comfort but also strength and knowledge. And especially in the case of long covid, which there are so many questions about, that's very important. D66 wants extra money to set up this peer contact professionally. In the previous period, a motion of D66 was adopted on this subject. It is therefore ready to be carried out, but in the meantime we have many months and patients. That is why I would like to propose an amendment to promote and support this peer contact specifically for patients with long covid. Mr President, I will conclude. For D66, the need is clear from now on to make our care future-proof. My party, my colleagues and I, dare to engage in the social and political debate in this respect, and to seek solutions that will enable you and I to continue to take advantage of the good care we have to offer in the Netherlands in 50 years' time and allow my children, perhaps with their children, to visit me. And hopefully my grandchildren will say, "Wow, Grandma is really very old." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u133	Thank you for this beautiful personal story by Mrs Paulusma. I have a question along the lines of the question I asked Mrs Tellegen of the VVD. It's about the increase in the number of homeless and homeless people. There is an action programme for this, which is now being stopped. I would like to ask Mrs Paulusma if she agrees with us that we really need to prevent the number of people who do not have a roof from increasing even more and that we should look at how we can stop this. I sent her an amendment today, or, of course, the Registry did, in which we are seriously looking for cover. We're taking that cover out of the Tax Plan now. I would like to ask Mrs Paulusma if she would like to join us in thinking about how we can continue this programme and find good financial coverage. That way we can say to each other, so as a room, that we really need to prevent more people from becoming homeless and homeless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u134	I do not wish to dismiss your glowing speech as an open door, but it is obvious to us that this group should not be increased. In fact, it's impossible for us to have so many homeless people. Anyone here can get as sick as I've been. Anyone could lose their house, too. Because it's not for any particular group, but it can happen to all of us. I understood that the program that was there is going on in some sort of slimming form, so I am also curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. I would also like to say again that we should not solve everything in healthcare. I think that not having a house is also just a problem that goes with the housing file. More needs to be built so that we can ensure that people do not end up on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u135	Thank you. You don't often see two colleagues from GroenLinks interrupt almost simultaneously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u136	I'm almost honored, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u137	That's how I think you should see it. Mrs. Ellemeet, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u138	I thank Mrs Paulusma for her beautiful and impressive personal story. She began by saying that she is speaking on behalf of her entire group, and that is strong. I did miss one important issue, namely medical ethics, which I know is important for the D66 group. One of the subjects that I will at least draw attention to is complex euthanasia requests. Unfortunately, the waiting times are extremely long. That's not new. Your colleague Mrs Bergkamp also asked for this in the budget last year, partly on behalf of her colleague Pia Dijkstra. I looked it up. So it is a subject that was discussed last year in the budget by D66. Unfortunately, the problem has not yet been solved. It's just that a lot of doctors don't know what to do with these complex euthanasia questions. I will argue in favour of ensuring that this training takes place and that it is not only invested in one place, but that other caregivers are also able to cope with it. I also saw it in your election program. I wondered if I could count on the support of D66 in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u139	I think you will be able to fill in almost all the answers to the question yourself. Yeah, it's an important subject. You always have a list of things you want and a list of things you really want to name. I know what you're saying. It is incredibly complex and it also requires a lot of people and professionals. I think it is a bit in line with Mrs Tellegen's very fine plea to pay more attention to this. It's not just anything. I don't always want to add to my experience, but I was there a number of times. It takes a lot. So yes, if we can promote expertise to ensure that this continues to happen as carefully as possible, you will certainly find us on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u141	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport. We need the next speaker. That's Mrs. Chicken from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u142	Mr. Chairman. Nothing is certain in life except the fact that we're all born and that eventually we're going to die. Some babies come into the world barking and other children just have a very difficult start. You can be a whistling 90 years old, but I also have friends who suddenly turn out to be incurable sick. That is also the reality of this day. Some people say it's fate, but I think it's more like fat, fat, fat bad luck. Yet not everything that happens to us in life is bad luck or happiness. Practically trained people live for an average of seven years shorter than theoretical trained people. The difference in healthy life years is on average even fifteen years. That was also mentioned earlier. Money worries, debts or poverty create chronic stress, an unhealthy lifestyle, diseases such as diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, but also psychosocial problems and perhaps even raising problems. People with heavy professions often do not get to enjoy their pensions, because they are simply no longer there. We should not and should not accept this dishonesty and great inequality. There is every reason to tackle poverty in the Netherlands and to focus on preventing people from becoming unnecessarily ill or having to resort to care. It's good for the people themselves. It helps to reduce the cost of care. It is also essential, because we simply have too few people to take care of us all in the future. That is why, as a PvdA member, I want to focus on prevention and on accessible and affordable care. Prevention starts by tackling poverty in a structural way, making homes affordable and reducing energy costs. But prevention also has to do with how we deal with lifestyles and how we organise our care so that we can actually reduce health differences. Mr. Chairman. That starts with healthy food and a stuffed stomach. That's a first need for life. Let us therefore make healthy food such as fruit and vegetables cheaper, abolish VAT and increase the price of unhealthy food through a sugar tax. Let's start by doing the following in all schools. We used to have milk in schools. Joop Atsma had another fund for fruit in all schools. I still think it's essential. Let's just make sure that all schools have fruit and vegetables available. This means that everyone learns that that is the healthy basis. This guarantees that no child without a stuffed stomach will have to make it through the day. We shall also table an amendment to that effect. I hope that will be heard because everyone feels the importance of getting off to a good start. With this we can give all children from all families a good start of the day and the rest of their lives. Mr. Chairman. Let us also reward good behavior when it comes to prevention. There are employers who are demonstrably working on the health of their employees, who are achieving results in this area and in whom absenteeism is falling. Yet it does not pay, because they pay as much health insurance premiums as any other company. It would be a pity if we could not develop incentives there that are not negative, but rather positive. Let us also legally anchor prevention so that it pays to use it and so that it does not pay to treat per se, but to do prevention. That should be given a legal basis. I mean that we are creating a earning model to really give this the flywheel that is needed, and that a much larger budget will be available for prevention. Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to intervene early and avoid more expensive care, it is extremely important that people do not avoid care. Longer waiting lists, including in mental health care, are detrimental to that. We have seen it in investigations: their own risks are now so high that people are going to avoid care. It's sometimes wrong, but that feeling is felt. I call people who do not take oral care because they need additional insurance for that, while we all know that bad teeth cause infections. We know it even increases dementia, because chewing helps to keep your brain healthy. I don't know exactly how that works either. But that's how it is. Or take people who avoid care because they do not have oral insurance and therefore think that their children are not entitled to it. That's the world we live in now. We should avoid that. Mr. Chairman. Your own contributions. Think about maternity care. How do you make it up? We want to give every kid a good start. Nevertheless, we ask for our own contribution to maternity care. Personally, I find that hard to explain. That is also the reason why the Labour Party and a number of other parties are calling for the reduction and eventual elimination of one's own risk. Mr. Chairman. A number of parties have also explicitly mentioned the general practitioner and the role of general practitioners in prevention and prevention of scaling up to more expensive care. 95% of all those in need of care will be the first to come to that doctor. They're the gatekeepers of care. They have also shown, precisely in corona time, that they could avoid many unnecessary referrals. They did that by making longer consultations possible. I mean, there's a little more time for a conversation, a little more attention to the question: who do I have in front of me? What does he or she really need? Is there any real complaints here? Is there some kind of stress here? Are there any problems at home? What's really going on here? Is it indeed a belly complaint, or is it much more on a different plane? That is why I am also a warm supporter of the structural funding of fifteen-minute consultations. There are seven pilots running. About 118 general practitioners participate in this. Perhaps they are not the latest figures, but at least they were my data. But that is of course only a very small number of almost 5,000 general practitioners we have. That is why I would very much like to put forward an amendment, and I am going to do so, so that we can finally arrive at longer general practitioners' consultations with a walk-in model. Mr Hijink of the SP also mentioned it. That is where we are very much in line. We think it is important because it leads to better care and because it prevents referrals and ultimately reduces the cost of care. Mr. Chairman. Inequality in care occurs not only on the basis of background or income, but also on the basis of where people live. That's what we see in emergency care. Because emergency care is coming under increasing pressure. We believe that this form should remain available. It cannot be that you take longer in Zeeland or in Friesland, where the care becomes more and more under pressure, to get good care. It's a choice you make. We are therefore very strongly not in favour of closing emergency aid posts; we would even like to reopen a number of them. These must also be full posts, with a maximum driving time of 15 minutes. Other departments that are included, such as delivery rooms, should also be taken into account, as a whole. That requires a system change, because then you have to go to population cost. It shouldn't matter if someone comes in through the doctor's office, the emergency room or the emergency room. You need to look where someone is at their best. You have to approach it integrally. That is what the association itself argues for. There have been some moves for that, but it hasn't been settled yet. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to accessibility, we also have a problem with medicines. As the affordability of care continues to be under pressure, it is less and less easy to explain that pharmaceuticals make so much money from medicines and that the question of whether you can use them will become more and more important in the future. We've been talking a long time about that being a scandal. In the corona crisis, we also saw where it leads. Pfizer and Moderna were able to raise their vaccine price unbridled. And yet we are unable to stop that. I have tabled a motion, supported by other parties, to arrive at an overall assessment of the price of medicinal products. It would be done with the NZa, the healthcare institute. But it all lingers in beautiful words. There is not even an incentive yet to achieve that vision, which I think is much needed in order to regulate the accessibility and availability of medicines and vaccines. It is also about raw materials, because in the end we have only a limited number of factories in Europe that actually make all the raw materials for the 100 most essential medicines. If we become increasingly dependent on India or China, it will eventually lead to a deficit, as we can already see with a number of medicines. That's not a future scenario that looks very happy. I would therefore like to know from the cabinet what we are going to do in the Netherlands and Europe to ensure that we are able to meet this basic need of excipients; we need to have this in order. What is the situation with the implementation of my motion for a comprehensive view on the funding and prices of medicines? Mr. Chairman. In the coming period, strong choices will be made in the formation in how we organise the care, how we keep the care affordable and how we reduce the burden of care. It's gonna kill sacred cottages, too. We, too, of course, have proposed in our election programme how to reduce the cost of care. There are several examples, such as the removal of the subscription rate to domestic care, the elimination of paid medical specialists, the dismantling of mad market incentives and the reduction of the cost of medicines. But in the end, care costs are not the biggest problem. It simply means that we no longer have enough hands in the care to provide us all with care. That makes for all the proposals, or for almost all the proposals made in this house, of housing for the elderly How do you keep the elderly at home longer? It is important to ensure that all kinds of preventive measures are taken, very sharp choices are needed to ensure sufficient hands in care. I understand that staff is not a button that you can turn on indefinitely, but at the same time it is a sweeping sign that just today, while we are talking about corona measures, have demonstrated and stopped hospital staff because no good collective agreement is being developed. Not so long ago, 10 million more have been made available for maternity care, precisely in order to achieve better collective agreements and better working conditions, but implementation has not yet been achieved. My question to the cabinet is therefore: how do we ensure that it is not just fine words, but that we also give the healthcare workers we need so badly the right appreciation? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to my last topic. That's a little corona, isn't it? It was deafeningly quiet last week. The cabinet took action yesterday and asked the OMT for an early or expedited opinion. I also think they can, as I have seen many OMT members in the media very actively over the last few days. We'll see where that leads. We would have preferred to increase the ic capacity a year and a half ago. Motions have also been tabled for this purpose, which have also reached majorities, but it has not happened, and it is not going to happen in the next two months either. This means that I am convinced that measures are needed if we are to maintain the ic capacity and to ensure that delayed operations can be carried out. You have to think about masks in certain places and working at home. The corona evidence will also have to be enforced more strictly. Enforcement is tired and we are tired, but so are the ic nurses. It also applies to mothers who have e-mailed us because their daughter's or son's surgery has been postponed or to the father who, as a result of cancer treatment, needs urgent surgery and is in a great deal of pain. That is also the reality of the day. All the measures that the OMT is likely to advise and which we are debating next week, we are doing not only because of corona, but also because of all those people whose care has been postponed for months and who are now waiting for surgery very urgently. Because that's also what it takes to stay up. Mr. Chairman. There are still difficult weeks waiting for us in that respect, because we had all hoped that we were through the wave and we are not. We'll continue next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u144	Mr. Chairman. In 2009, my aunt Marie died at the age of 89. I liked to visit her, because when I looked her in the eye, I saw the eyes of my father, who had already died in 1995. At every visit Aunt Marie said: "Room butter, I like that so much. I used to have no money for it and now I can't do it anymore." So the question is why we need to determine in detail and record what to eat of people at that age. Is that really sensible concern? Mr. Chairman. Good care means the CDA quality of life and not the ticking of lists. We want to maintain good care, including for future generations. Solidarity between people is the guiding principle for the CDA. This solidarity is translated into sharing healthcare costs. Young people pay for the elderly, they pay for the sick and they pay for lower incomes. We'd like to keep it that way. But that solidarity is under pressure. More and more often do you hear about the rise in healthcare costs: why do I have to pay for someone who is fat, who is not vaccinated, who smokes or who practices a dangerous sport? The basic rule of caring is that you don't moralize. The CDA wants to keep it that way, but that is only possible if everyone takes responsibility for themselves, but also for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u145	This is something that has been taken from my heart, but it is true that the Minister of VWS is about to take corona measures only for people who have not been vaccinated. How do you see that in the context of solidarity and that you do not have separate rules in the care of people who do not live very well or have such a healthy lifestyle?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u146	Two things about that. Firstly, I would like to await the OMT opinion and the final proposals and measures of the cabinet, as well as the arguments they use for this. But I think the CDA's starting point is clear. So I say that we do not want to moralize it, but that also means that everyone takes a piece of responsibility. We are actually trying to convince everyone to be vaccinated. Right now it's 85%. The national vaccination programme is 95%. So we are hopeful that further steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u147	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u148	I can see that. But I also see a very clear difference between the moral of the story when it comes to the position of the CDA and what the CDA Minister is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u149	Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. The CDA wants a cooperative society in which we look after each other and take care of each other together, instead of a society in which we medicalize the suffering that life sometimes gives us. Care is not a right, but something we give each other. Care is next to living and climate in the top three issues that concern citizens. So the government has to work with that. Soft healers make stinky wounds. Since the 1970s, the healthcare sector has been growing more rapidly than the state budget and thus suppressing other collective services, such as education, police, housing and nature. Hospital costs and costs for nursing, care, home care and disability care have doubled in 20 years. The long-term public health insurance premium is formally 9,65%, but in the meantime 13 billion has been added from the VWS budget. That grows to 19 billion. That's when the aging wave comes. 4 out of 13 billion is still due to a tax correction of 20 years ago. For the citizens, it is no longer transparent what the real cost is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u150	Whether it's Mrs De Vries, Mrs Paulusma or Mrs Van den Berg, they're all here doing exactly the same story. Looks like you got a talking sheet in advance. You are all saying the same thing about healthcare costs and you are all saying the same thing about making choices. Can I ask the CDA a few questions? The CDA has not been under a rock in the last year and a half, Mrs Van den Berg certainly has not, during the healthcare crisis we have had. I have made it clear that the forecasts and actual costs are far apart. We're in a crisis that's been caused. It's not over yet; we're in the middle of it. Mrs van den Berg has the floor. How then is it that, in this crisis, she denies a story about the fact that there is a problem with our care costs, that care costs too much and that other things are being pushed away, and that there will be no change of policy? How can it be that there is no change of policy from the CDA that says: 'this should never have happened', 'hospital care should not have been broken down so far' and 'we won't let it happen again in the future'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u151	Mrs Agema says that we need to look further to make the care much more pandemic-proof in order to cope with these crises. Mrs Agema is absolutely right about that. We want to look in particular at the longer term. Solidarity also means that this generation is in solidarity with the next generation and that we are now taking action to ensure that the next generation has sufficient care and other resources. Mrs Agema says that this whole change must also include the fact that this crisis has shown that we are really not crisis-proof in some areas, that we need to work much more together and that we need to do things differently. Mrs Agema is absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u152	Your last interruption, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u153	Of course, we're not gonna make it with a couple of care reserves. It's a good thing we're doing that, but we're not gonna make it in another pandemic, after a terrorist attack or disaster, or whatever. We're not gonna make it. But I also hear Mrs van den Berg now saying that decisions must be taken. Nor could Mrs De Vries mention any concrete thing that needs to be done. What does the CDA want to do? Tell us! Be honest with the people at home. What annoying decisions is the CDA going to make when it comes to care? What's it gonna do? Is it gonna shut down hospitals or nursing homes? Is cancer care gonna come out? What is the CDA going to do when it comes to nasty decisions that need to be made? I'd like to be specific. I didn't hear about the VVD. Maybe you got it on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u154	As a CDA, we have been advocating a reduction in administrative burdens for much longer. 40% of working time is now devoted to administration. I shall come back to that later in my speech. If we add everything together, we'll spend nearly 100 billion on care. Of these, two thirds are work-related. 40% of them are working hours. That means we're spending about 25 billion dollars on administration. We need to take measures to ensure that this goes back to 20%. Mrs. Agema asked in her speech: shouldn't you even look at overhead? I think that is a justified point that should be taken into account. This also has to do with administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u155	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u156	I am glad that Mrs van den Berg also thinks that something needs to be done about the administrative burden. I'd be happy to hang out with her to do something about that. But then she says between her nose and her lips that care costs 100 billion. That's not true. For the year 2021, the annual statement has been closed at EUR 76 billion. There's 25 billion between doom scenarios and actual costs. So we have spent EUR 76 billion on healthcare in our last budget, the only truly completed last budget, that of 2021; not EUR 100 billion. My question to you is this. Very nice if we can hang out when it comes to rules and when it comes to overhead, but be honest. From the VVD we heard the difficult choices that need to be made and which you are probably making at the negotiating table with each other right now. What part of the care is going to suffer from the choices you say they should be made? - Are there going to be hospitals shut down? Are the nursing homes closing down? Is cancer care going to be restricted, if you're talking about proven effective resources? I don't want any of that, but what's the CDA gonna do and what do you mean by "difficult choices"? The VVD also mentioned this, but did not give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u157	Can I get back to the numbers first? Mrs Agema rightly points out that this budget is about 76 billion net. The gross amount is higher. You have to count the premiums and all that. I am talking about next year's budget, plus the costs for the WMO and for youth care. That goes together to the 100 million. You can also hear about high administrative burdens in the youth care and the Wmo. In my speech, I will come back to what kind of buttons we want to turn in order to do something about the cost of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u158	But first we go to Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u159	I think the point is correct. If from so many old/new coalition parties this scary is always coming, so from "care becomes priceless; we have to make tough choices," then I also think you should have the guts to say what they are. Are those higher own contributions? Is that a higher risk of your own? Do the hospitals need to be scaled down even further and do the wards need to close down? I have also made the point of the administrative burden. But then I get to hear from D66: but that of course doesn't get us there. What do you find when it comes to this priceless care? I'm questioning whether that's true, but let's say that's true. What are the ideas that the new coalition is now thinking about when it comes to affordability? Is it at your own risk? So it's the basic package? Are medicines or treatments coming out? Then what exactly is on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u160	The first approach for the CDA is not to increase its own risk or to increase the health premium much further. We want to get the money out of the system. Mr. Hijink says, "D66 is talking about the administration." But if we can take steps in all these areas, including the Wmo and youth care, to bring that administration from 40% to 20%, that means a return of some 12 billion. I think we can do a lot of other things with that. We've left a lot of things to the field. We think we need to push that very strongly in terms of regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u161	I very much agree. I also hope that this will happen and that this will mean that we are going to do something about market forces and competition. We're gonna see. Then I would like to ask the second question. It is about the proposal I made earlier on about organizing care for the elderly at local level or village level. The proposal I want to make here on Thursday is: let's see what it takes to organise the money available for elderly care in one team in a neighbourhood or village where 3,000 to 4,000 people live. I mean, when you come into the elderly's house, you're not gonna see what law that grandpa or grandma actually falls into, but you're gonna see exactly what mister or ma'am needs and how we're gonna organize that together. Is the CDA prepared to investigate how we can organise this care for the elderly more at local and village level so that we can get rid of the red tape that you also want to get rid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u162	When Mr. Hijink talks about how we can disband... Now sometimes we're waiting for each other in the hope that either the Health Insurance Act or the Wlz or the Wmo will pay for it; that's what you're seeing now. We'd like to embrace that detachment, see how we can get better at it. We are not all in favour of it. There are also proposals to say that Wlz care should be put under the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u163	I wouldn't say that so quickly. Maybe that can be an outcome, but I think we should have that investigated. I would also like to put that question to the cabinet. How could you do that in a smart way? Suppose you look at a neighborhood on that scale, that you take out the competition, think of the neighborhood care, but also of other forms of care, and that you do it together with an institution as a central center with a general practitioner, preferably a health care neighborhood home, of course, as we would like to see it. Then you go in a circle around such a health care neighborhood organizing care for the elderly, without the market, without the competition and without profits, also very important. I'd like to ask the CDA if he's willing to join the SP in asking the Cabinet to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u164	In any case, I am very interested in the reaction of the cabinet to this idea. For the CDA, however, it is important how you can maintain that efficiency is still being pursued and how you can maintain that there is also an incentive to do innovation. I'm going to taste this a little bit like: we're going to do that small population in a pilot as a population benefit. In doing so, we are concerned about what this means for efficiency and innovation. But I'm very interested in the government's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u165	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There must therefore also be solidarity between the elderly and young people. The next generations are also entitled to adequate care and sufficient money for other public services. Care now determines its own growth, and we must stop doing so. Other public sectors cannot decide how much they can grow. The CDA believes that only proven effective care needs to be reimbursed in the basic package. In addition, we will continue to look at what people can do in a reasonable manner. One of the other speakers also mentioned this, because everyone knows that getting older comes with flaws. We can therefore expect people to prepare for this as well as possible and to take measures themselves. Mr. Chairman. There is another reason why we need to start reforming care now, because the current trend in the labour market is also unsustainable. In the meantime, one in six to seven people works in healthcare. And it's an illusion to think that one in three people can work in care. Apart from the fact that many people simply have a different ambition, you also need people in industry, education, culture, hospitality and the police. Moreover, the ageing population is increasing, including among carers. That's what we need to catch up with. The conclusion of the WRR is that we will have to make stronger political choices to keep care available, accessible and affordable. But according to the CDA, we can only do that if we work differently and work together more. To this end, I have already made a number of proposals in my own initiative paper entitled 'Towards less disease and better care: take care of maintaining solidarity'. The WRR indicates that it is also important that there is social support, for example through civil fora. I like to see that a civil council for care is already being set up in Zeeland. But more things are needed. For example, we need stricter rules for the authorisation of treatments and medicines. The CDA is thinking of a greater role for the Healthcare Institute and the Healthcare Authority. In addition, our vision, supported by the WRR, is that all treatments are tested in advance for that effectiveness, before the decision is made on compensation. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A learning culture, that's what I've talked about before. Now the "Not Invented Here" syndrome is still very large. In addition, we see, for example, in ggz and youth care, a lot of symptom reduction and individual care pathways instead of tackling poverty reduction, community sense and meaning. It is often treated on the basis of assumptions and own insights. That has to change. Mr. Chairman. "In God we trust, all others please bring dates" I've always learned. Why, for example, are hospitals not obliged to participate in important quality registrations, such as those of the emergency services? Because then you can also set standards. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. For example, we want a standard for the accessibility of certain care. Clear standards are needed with regard to accessibility and quality, as the WRR also indicates. This way you can also ensure the accessibility of care in the region. That too is solidarity. And does the Minister also want to think about Caribbean Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. For years, the CDA has called for a strong reduction in administrative burdens and easier data exchange. As has already been said, 40% of working time is spent on administration and on what are called "non-client activities." For all the laws put together, that's almost 100 billion for next year. As I said, two thirds are labour-related, and 40% of that is administration. And I just mentioned all that EUR 25 billion. Hospitals employ pharmacists to trace medication, patients have to tell their stories several times, and data is knocked in triple. Even 20% of administration would still be substantial, but that means that we can still make about 13 billion. This money can then be used to meet the rise in healthcare demand from ageing populations, to invest in innovation, to reduce workload and to improve working conditions. So not a significant increase in own risk, taxes or premiums, but more efficient working and making choices. But that only works if all parties take action, i.e. health insurers, health offices and municipalities. They must make clear demands to be accountable. So not thirty pages that a ggz institution has to fill out for one specialist treatment. So quality registrations that are automatically linked, which we hope to achieve with the Wegiz. And apply the 80/20 rule. A nephrologist told me: we keep dozens of indicators, but with ten we know a lot. I'd like a response from the Minister. However, there are also legal barriers, such as the Medical Treatment Agreement Act and the Supplementary Provisions on the Processing of Personal Data in the Care. In the case of data exchange, doctors run into this. What about the commitment of 14 June? The Minister would provide an overview of all legislation that prevents adequate exchange of information. Mr. Chairman. First of all, therefore, we should not further increase the administrative burden on first-line providers. Mrs De Vries also referred to it. Is the Minister prepared to discuss what time is really needed for that responsibility? We get two hours, but from the field we hear that it's a lot more. Mr. Chairman. Finally, prevention. Many healthcare costs can be prevented by prevention. That's our own behavior, looking after each other and becoming more self-reliant. In my initiative paper, Mondzorg, I advocated a gap-free generation. At the moment, however, there is still a shortage of dentists. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether the training can be reduced by one year? Because we get indications from the field that that would be possible. Prevention is wider than care. There is uncertainty due to precarious jobs, inappropriate housing, debt problems, lack of skills: investment in education, housing and debt relief can reduce healthcare costs. We think you should take a critical look at the 17 billion we're going to spend in 2025. That is 3.5 billion more than we spend on primary education on an annual basis. Sander de Hosson quotes in his book the ancient pronunciation: medicine is sometimes cured, often enlightened, always comforting. And enlightenment and comfort is something anyone can give to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Werner, your colleague from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u168	Thank you, Mr President. It is our differences that make us visible, that cause us to have stories, gain insight and give hope. It's people who make differences. Not by dividing them or framing them, but by connecting them. That's what's taking time. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands there are 2 million people with disabilities who experience daily what exclusion from society means. Can I go in here? Can I go to school here? Can I work here? Too many crucial questions from too many people. We may also need to talk much more often about the potential of all these people, the contribution they can make to society, when it comes to work, culture, art, sport. Connection based on equivalence. That's the way it's gonna go. That's what the CDA wants. In 2016, the Netherlands signed the UN Disability Convention. The government has a duty to strengthen the position of people with disabilities. The Treaty gives people the right to access, equal treatment and also self-direction. It's been in operation for five years. Are you okay? No, it's not enough yet. That is why we must continue with the programme Unlimited!. It started in 2018 with the aim to remove thresholds and promote self-direction. Great, of course! But where are we now? That is why I ask the Secretary of State to continue with the programme Unlimited in 2022!? Are there any financial means for this? What did you actually think was a successful part of this programme? What did you find less successful? The CDA would like to see more action in the programme, more visibility on the results. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the optional protocol associated with the UN Convention on Handicap, the individual right, which is important for the emancipation of people with disabilities. Necessary! There's been a long delay. This is due to the fact that the UN is conducting a large-scale evaluation of the functioning of several UN Convention Committees. And also because the Secretary of State considers it important to have more insight into the financial and legal consequences of the possible signature. He therefore asked the Council of State for information on the optional protocols to the UN Convention on Handicap, the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. But now my question is: what exactly does the Secretary of State mean by "information from the Council of State"? And how am I supposed to understand the word "possibly"? Mr. Chairman. We also have 1 million people with intellectual disabilities in our country, a limitation that you generally do not see immediately. We really have a big blind spot for the problems they experience in our society. Think about learning, about work, about social relationships. As a result, they are more likely to encounter crime, sexual abuse or become homeless. When we look at the Future Agenda: care and support for people with disabilities, I see that the 2019 inter-departmental policy research has not yet been taken into account. Think, for example, of the complicated transition from school to work, of preventive guidance and, of course, of keeping people in sight. I also miss the group of people with intellectual disabilities who just live between you and me in the neighborhood and the people who live semi-self-employed, so people with Wlz-indication care without staying. Can the Minister add this group to the future agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u169	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u170	I do not know if my question fits perfectly in terms of timing, but he actually went a little bit about the UN Disability Convention. I think it is a very valuable subject that is mentioned here. For example, I have also read the column and when we are talking about division in a society, I think: who is really worried about whether or not we can go in with a wheelchair? Think of the advance of the self-cank counters, which may be very pleasant for you and I, but which, at the moment you are blind or partially sighted, are not a good solution at all. Or think of the fact that our traffic lights are often not at all regulated with sound, or think of lifts that do have touch buttons, but do not indicate where you are actually standing. We have, of course, adopted the bill on the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. This is increasingly being followed up here in the Chamber, but it also calls for action. Mrs Werner is right to draw attention to this, but I was also looking for ways in which, apart from recognition or ratification, we could take some concrete steps. That often stays behind when we do not drag it and do not push it against it. I haven't included it in my contribution because I've been talking for too long, but I'm kind of looking for the concrete actions she sees ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u171	Thank you for this question, because that is extremely important. We have two million people with disabilities in this country. Many studies show that they are still far too little involved, so I am extremely glad that you also say that you think it is extremely important that we should pay attention to this. You mentioned that people with disabilities sometimes find it difficult to use things we think of for them. First of all, it is always extremely important that we involve the target group. Now I know better than anyone that there is an unprecedented diversity within the group of people with disabilities. That's unprecedented. That is why my plea is always that people with disabilities should let themselves be heard. That is also extremely important. Then we all know what they want and what is possible for them. We just need to keep talking to them and communicate. If you ask me to mention one specific thing, I would say: I am sure that the Secretary of State is going to give a fantastic answer, that he has that high on his mind, that he genuinely wants to change society... does not want to change, but that he thinks that the UN Treaty is important and takes it seriously, and that he will continue to participate in the programme Unlimited! And when I talk like that about unlimited participation, it seems to be some kind of gesture, but it's actually about unprecedented potential. Perhaps we should change that title to unprecedented potential, because that is where we need to go. So thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u172	Mrs. Chicken, finally. It's also your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u173	[[Sentence could not be parsed: We hebben nog even voordat we daadwerkelijk tot stemmen overgaan, dus misschien kunnen we samen kijken wat we nog kunnen bedenken, maar laat ik één concreet voorbeeld noemen: de liften.]] How often are lifts at metro stations or train stations not in operation? That's very annoying when you use a wheelchair or a rollator, or when you have a stroller, which also happens in a lifetime. Then it is almost unacceptable that this may take weeks and that people are not informed about it and are actually left to their own devices? What could we possibly do to arrange something as simple as the right to use an elevator in a public place? Those are things I'm looking in my head for and struggling with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u174	I think we're far too little using design for all. That would be very good. Let TU Delft people and the like think about how we can ensure that we make products that are manageable for everyone. As I just said, it's a hugely diverse group. I will tell you quite frankly that there are policy officials who still cannot get into this building because the lifts are not adequate. That's very serious business, and that's about this house where we're sitting together. We'll find each other; I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u175	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u176	Mr. Chairman, do you know Hattinga Verschure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u177	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u178	He was professor of hospital science in Utrecht and studied the question: what is the essence of care? He came to the conclusion that one person's care is for another, in addition to professional care. Take care of those people because they surround each other like a cloak. This is how the concept of "mantle care" came into being in 1972. Now, almost 50 years later, we can no longer live without the 5 million people in the Netherlands who provide unpaid and out of love for a neighbor. I read that they save us about EUR 22 billion a year. The value of carers per municipality runs in the millions, according to research that Ecorys carried out on behalf of MantelzorgNL. In the city of The Hague, for example, the value of the time spent by carers has been estimated between 460 and 757 million euros per year. That's the kind of care that professionals have to provide otherwise. The Minister is working on the future of care. He wants more cooperation between the two laws: the Wmo and the Wlz. But is the role of carers sufficiently taken into account? I think we should move the beacons. Assume that people want to be self-reliant for as long as possible and that older couples want to stay together. The CDA believes that we should therefore invest more preventively in carers. We have to ask in good time: what do you need to keep it up? Is it enough for your partner to go to day care two days a week or do you need half a day more? I think this precaution allows people to stay home longer. How does the Minister view this idea? Can we not even try this with a number of municipalities, in which we investigate which practical support helps best and how we can prevent overload? I wanted to ask Mrs. Agema a question now, but she's gone. She spoke for a moment about Valy's transport, but I'll ask her when she gets back. Finally, Mr President. People, young and old, are most happy when they can live in communion with each other and when they are seen and appreciated for what they can, without exclusion. People who need it deserve support from their fellow man and from a protective government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u179	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "New reforms are not needed, but improvements." People who recognize this can raise their fingers. Look, Kees van der Staaij knows! This was a sentence from the coalition agreement. It was only seven words, but they had a huge impact on recent years, because of course those reforms were very much needed, but there was no room for that or this cabinet has not given itself room for that. That is deeply sad, just when we look at the waiting lists that we see growing in the care of the elderly, the transgender care and the ggz. But this also applies to the employment problem. That is why I had hoped very much that we could have had this debate with a new cabinet, because we need to solve the major problems we encounter in the care sector as soon as possible. But unfortunately, with all due respect, we will have to do it with these outgoing cabinet people. Mr. Chairman. In view of the limited context, this minister has tried to do something. He has launched a large number of action programmes. We have often made the necessary jokes about this, but the fact is that if we stop now, we have no reforms and no programmes. We see in the budget that a lot of these action programmes do not go through. To tell you the truth, I'm worried about that. So I'd like a response from the Minister. How's he looking at this? How are we supposed to make it through next year? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had a note-taking meeting on care for the elderly and housing for care for the elderly. At that time, we discussed this issue in detail. That is why I would now like to talk more about the organization of care. Let's start with care for the elderly. A number of colleagues have also mentioned the affordability of care and the cost of care. I have also said: I do not think it matters whether you are left or right, we need to discuss this with each other here in this Chamber. But I very much agree with Mr Hijink who said: in any case, we pay for this concern, whether you organize it collectively or you have to pay for it yourself; if you have an ageing society, the costs will rise. And the question is, how are we gonna do that honestly? I would also like to ask the Minister how he looks at the fact that we have a substantial housing component in the care of the elderly. Of course, many countries around us do not have that. Doesn't that also distort the picture of the healthcare budget? I would like a response to that. Well, then, we'll have a good insight into that. Mr. Chairman. Part of the solution for the organization of care and care costs, and especially for the staff shortage, he is in control. I remember a few years ago when I brought this up with my colleague Sophie Hermans. Then we got some glassy looks of: what are you doing and how important is it really? I believe that there is a growing awareness here in this Chamber, and I have the suspicion that this Minister too is a very important subject. Because the more control and autonomy we give to those caregivers, the greater their pleasure in the work and the smarter they can organize it, so the less time they spend on administration. For this reason, I would also like the cabinet to invest in control. There is a nice recovery plan, which is badly needed for the care, but it still lacked funding for control. That is why I have written and tabled an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to keeping care providers attractive, it's in control, but it's certainly in a bit of good pay. We see, on the contrary, that people with lower incomes in care are not well paid at all. In fact, sometimes they can't pay the rent properly and they can't do their groceries normally. That's what I'm worried about. There is now 675 million extra resources available for healthcare salaries, and as far as my group is concerned, we reserve them for the lowest incomes. Mr. Chairman. A completely different subject, namely euthanasia. The waiting lists for the complex cases, which unfortunately we are also dealing with, are running up. That's been going on for a long time. The problem is that many caregivers do not have the knowledge and expertise to deal with these questions properly. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to ensure that the budget is available for this. I am very curious whether the Minister recognizes and agrees that a solution must be found. Mr. Chairman. As is now good practice, I end up with women's topics in care. 'Cause there's plenty of them. We have had a wonderful round table on menopause, in which all the speakers said: first of all, come up with a campaign, because awareness on this subject is very important. Another theme for women is, unfortunately, the cost of care. We see that women are more likely to be at risk and have extra contributions of their own, for example around pregnancy and birth. Therefore, it shouldn't be a surprise just to be reimbursed from the government. I'd like a response to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u181	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For us, the fear of the Netherlands is a society of the fat self, a society set up in such a way that unlimited economic growth, consumerism and the individual are central. A society that no longer revolves around looking at each other, with a government that assumes that everyone is always self-reliant in every situation and that helping hands are no longer needed. Although fortunately we do not yet have such a society, we are failing to help those people who are most vulnerable. Mr. Chairman. A week and a half ago, we had a conversation in this Chamber with a number of young people who had psychological problems. That was a very intense conversation, in which a number of people I see here today were present. One of the attendees, a young woman, told us that she had been sent away from her ggz institution because she had suicidal thoughts. That's the upside-down world, you'd think. Whatever she told us, she had to sleep in her own car that night because she didn't have a place to sleep anywhere, because she didn't have a home, had no place to feel safe to eat. I felt a huge substitute shame because we asked people to come to the Chamber to tell us what could be better and then let them go again, knowing that they do not have a house that night and sleep in their own car. I felt powerless at the same time. Her story isn't on its own. In 2010 there were 23,000 homeless and now that is almost double. As this group grows, municipalities are getting less and less money to deal with this and to deal with these people. That while the government itself had it calculated that every euro we invest in solving this problem and preventing people from becoming homeless will give us more than double as a society. The Secretary of State was given an action programme of 200 million, but my group is very shocked to see that money run out for next year, which is precisely intended to prevent people from becoming homeless. We have tabled an amendment to settle this. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. But I would also like to call on the Chamber to put its shoulder to each other. So my question is, will you please join us? Mr. Chairman. It remains impossible for people suffering psychologically and sometimes even in danger of life to arrive on a daily waiting list. After a car accident, we would find it impossible for an ambulance to say "well, good luck, we'll deliver you back home" or "we'll deliver you to the street." But that happens to people who suffer psychologically and are sometimes just as dangerously ill. They are sometimes dropped off at home or in the street. We also know that the waiting lists are rising, that the staff shortage in the ggz is almost 7,000 people and that one of the solutions to counter the shortage of staff is the additional training of people. In 2019 and in 2020, amendments from my former colleague Renkema were adopted asking for additional training places to be made available. We intend to continue this tradition, so we have again tabled an amendment to enable another 35 additional training places in the ggz. We also hope, of course, for the support of the Chamber, because pointing out that there are too few places is really not enough. We can work that out here with each other. Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, I was temporarily walking on crutches because of a football injury. It was quite innocent, but in those months I've noticed what it does to you if you can't come fully, if you can't get into a building because there's only a staircase and no lift, or if you miss the train because you can't run just fast enough to catch that train. You'll see the train leaving in front of you. This was only temporary, but in that short period you really notice what people with disabilities run into every day. The other day I heard the example of someone who told me his wheelchair was broken and who had to wait almost a week for a mechanic. That is, of course, super-heavy, because those people depend on it. They just don't get out of the house without a wheelchair. Here again, I would like to say the cry of hearts: let us take account of each other and let us ensure that all people with disabilities can participate fully. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to make a few comments about the programme Unlimited!.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u183	I would like to come back to the previous point: the 35 additional training places in the ggz. In my speech, I said that there are often treatments such as the fight against symptom in youth care and ggz, whereas the real problem lies, for example, with poverty, lack of sense or lack of community spirit. That's what the WRR report indicates. So it has to be solved in a different way. I know that the complex multi-problem in the ggz is a major problem. That is precisely what we want to make room for by not giving that light concern anymore. I'd like to receive a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u184	That is, of course, also the point that Mrs Van den Berg's colleague, René Peters, makes very often. He often says, "Let's stop giving him that light care." He doesn't say it quite like that, but he does indicate that some care is simply superfluous. In the ideal world, of course, it is. In the ideal world there are no people with poverty problems and there are no families where there are huge debts and where there are enormous problems as a result of these debts. So let's work on that, too. There are, of course, a number of treatments that focus, for example, on autism and dyslexia, which Mr Peters talks about more often. Sometimes the question is whether these treatments are useful. We know that people who are more powerful, for example parents who have studied and are better able to find their way, are often the ones who can claim a large proportion of these costs of care. However, we can ask ourselves whether these are really the families that need this help. To some extent, I fully agree with that, but I do not think it is right for us to pretend that this solves all the problems. For example, we know that influx is falling in all groups. We also know that the number of children with complex problems is falling and that problems are getting bigger if you are not present in time with a family to help them. So this is something we have to fly in from different directions. It is not a problem that we simply solve by saying that we should no longer give up certain forms of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u185	Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u186	I think this is going to be my last interruption, Mr President. We are concerned that the problem is being solved, but we believe that this is often not a ggz problem, but rather a housing problem, a poverty problem or a debt problem, and that you should solve it in another area and not actually deal with the ggz symptom problem. That is a response to Mrs Westerveld's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u187	Yeah, let's do that. I would like to ask Mrs van den Berg. I would also like to point out that we are no longer at the formation table. So I would also like to look at the forming parties to ensure that the debt problem is addressed, that the housing problem is addressed and that we ensure that all children can go to school, so that the problems do not increase there. So please, do something about that. We would like to do that ourselves, but unfortunately we are sitting here, I shall not add to that table anymore to discuss the solutions to these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u188	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u189	Mr. Chairman. I had another question about unlimited participation. The question to the cabinet is: how is that programme going to end? Does the government believe that the implementation of the UN Convention could be put on hold? I suppose not, but I'm curious about the plans that are coming. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns prevention. In the Netherlands it is unfortunately the case that you die earlier if you have less to spend. That sounds really hard, but that's the way it is. You die six years earlier and you live 15 years less healthy if you belong to a group that has less to spend than others. One of the reasons is known: we know that healthy food is generally expensive and that unhealthy food is cheap. We can do something about that. This isn't law. This is the result of political choices. So let us ensure, for example, that we import a sugar tax and that we make healthy products cheaper. We can change that in the Chamber, because everyone also has the right to a healthy life and access to healthy food. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u190	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As we are, so are the times. This statement by Augustine made me think of when I was in nursing home Humanitas in Deventer, a place where people live their lives in full. Where a nursing home is sometimes mostly associated with the last years of a human life, this is a community where young and old eat together, celebrate parties and are there for each other, simply because the house also rents a few rooms to residential students. Mr. Chairman. As we are, so are the times. And if you look at the area of VWS, you know that the challenges are great: the workload and shortage of healthcare staff, the double ageing population, which will require a lot of our care in the coming years, the waiting lists, and so there is much more to name. At the same time, there are few healthcare systems as accessible as the Dutch. There are few countries where we prefer to see our loved ones nursed or undergoing medical treatment than here. And that's exactly why it's important now. How do we want the concern to develop over the coming year - the question of this budget - but even more so: what is needed to ensure that people remain fully involved and receive the care they need? In 2040 the Netherlands has 3.8 million 70-plussers. And if we don't organise the care differently, then one in four Dutch working in care is needed. It can't be. In order to keep care financially, staff and socially sustainable, choices are needed. The WRR sketches that well. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the issue of sustainable care is a question of society. How can we take good care of each other? Which local networks should we strengthen? How close and accessible are health care facilities in thinner populated regions with an ageing population? But also: how do we give a place to loss, brokenness and limitations when care cannot or cannot heal anymore? And how do we achieve the turnaround that it is not about disease but about health? Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the WRR report not only calls for a numerical response, but also for a broad response from the cabinet. Because an ageing society requires more than good care policies. Important parts of this are good elderly housing, good housing combinations, communal living, nursing homes and also municipal plans. Home care visions are already lagging behind, when they are desperately needed. And in the Minister's recent update, I hardly see any progress. I would like to ask the Minister how he can ensure that, at the end of the year, there are real agreements in all the municipalities. Or does he need firmer resources for that? Well, then, of course, I'd like to give him a hand. Mr. Chairman. A caring society also needs our young people. More than other age groups are young people who experience mental health problems such as loneliness, gloomyness and anxiety. In the summer of 2021, three out of ten young people reported having psychological concerns or problems. Young people experience pressure from themselves, from their family and friends, from social media, from their education, from the bank account and from a hopeless housing market. However, the promise that everything will be fine if you work hard is not self-evident. It's not all workable. Therefore, it is high time to put mental vulnerability very high on the agenda, increase mental resilience and remove the taboo in society. I would ask the Secretary of State to work hard on these points on the national prevention agreement on mental health, and I would like to know how that stands. Mr. Chairman. Besides mental health, physical health is a great asset, but the differences are large. If you have a low income Mrs Westerveld just said it even though you have fifteen years less to live in good health. That's an unacceptable difference. That is why the National Prevention Agreement is still important. The efforts made over the past few years have already produced good results, and at the same time we are not yet there. RIVM also clearly indicates what works: a sugar and/or fat tax and also advertising policy. And about that advertising policy in the supermarkets, here's what I'm saying. This Chamber has ruled on the desirability of 80% of the advertising in supermarket folders for products from the Disk of Five instead of the current 80% for products outside the Disk of Five. The ACM has recently indicated that it has no objections in this regard. I ask the Cabinet in what way this will be followed up. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to say a few words about corona. Honestly, every time we think we're almost there, the road turns out to be a lot longer. The pressure on care remains high and actually too high. Caregivers and nurses in hospital, nursing home and disability care continue to work their asses off. I also think this is a day to thank all of them on our behalf. What hard work is being done there and how we would like to see things different for them at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I think we're still talking about corona in the Corona debates, but now I'm going to take care of things. With next year's salary increase for the middle groups, an important first step has been taken to follow the ESC opinion. But here, too, we're not here yet. In addition to the structural increase in salaries, steps must be taken to improve control and increase training opportunities. Mr. Chairman. Roof and homeless people were luckily able to count on good shelter during the corona era, where the 1.5 meters could also be kept. Hotels have been rented and cruise ships used. People noticed that a place of their own gave peace and that recovery from there also went better than before in a full and busy dormitory. This cabinet, together with municipalities, has made a quality impact. It's already started for corona. We saw the good results to this day. But the approach now threatens to stop abruptly because the formation is not yet as far as we all hoped six months ago. How can we prevent a temporary hole from falling here? What's it gonna take? Can the cabinet guarantee this already, or is there any need for extra business? I like to hear it, because I don't think anyone wants a good program to be stopped for a while and then repair the damage. Mr. Chairman. My final points. One of these points is the accumulation of care costs. As a new healthcare professional, you also meet people who tell a story, but you think: what's the big deal? Is this really true? But it's true. Some people with chronic illness or disability spend so much money on care per month, on their own contributions to tools and on the Wlz that it piles up. In fact, it's so much that they have to cut back on other basic expenses. They can't save and their livelihood is under pressure. This is mainly due to the own contribution for the Wlz and the tools that are not being matched. How does the Minister view this problem? Is a reduction in the Wlz's own contribution a possibility? Or is it possible to maximize your own contribution to tools? I would very much like us to take steps at this point for people who actually have disproportionate costs due to that own contribution that is stacking. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns interpretation in the healthcare sector. Mrs Pauluma already spoke good words about this. I wholeheartedly agree with that. It is essential that you can understand a patient to provide him or her with good care. That funding has been shut down for a few years. Can the Minister provide an insight into what, in his view, are good financing options? And can the Minister propose a balanced decision on a structural approach to the use of interpreters in healthcare? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. There are major challenges to be addressed, and so are we, as politicians, here as well. We have to say here what would be good steps in the next ten years. I see it as a mission: as we are, so will the times be, even in the care. I wish the Minister and the Secretary of State a great deal of wisdom, pleasure and blessing in carrying out their fine duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u192	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u193	Thank you, Mr President. This month, a World Health Organisation report was published on the biggest threats to public health worldwide. Cancer, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes are high on the list, but new infectious diseases are also included, including new zoonoses outbreaks. Do you know what the WHO identifies as the greatest threat to global public health? That is the climate crisis. Air pollution, heat waves, floods and food scarcity threaten the whole world and put great pressure on care in vulnerable parts of the world, the WHO warns. Every extra megaton of CO we emit causes 226 additional deaths worldwide. In 2021, the Netherlands also had to deal with high mortality rates due to heat waves. 200 medical journals warned about this catastrophic health damage last month if it fails to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. I wonder if this Minister also recognizes this danger. Fortunately, there are doctors, nurses, pharmacists and many more caregivers who work alongside caring for patients with heart and soul to make their own sector more sustainable. The materials were disinfected and reused during the corona crisis due to the scarcity. Thanks to the new medication directive, healthcare workers can compare the climate damage caused by medicines. They are nice first steps in the right direction. How is this minister going to help to further roll out these successes, including to other health care institutions? Mr. Chairman. If we want to keep a reasonable chance on the 1.5 degree scenario, we will not only get there with the bottom-up initiatives. I have heard many colleagues today about the sustainability of care, about the rising costs of care. Too late insufficient intervention in the climate crisis is penny wise, pound foolish. The cost of doing nothing is much higher. It will only increase the pressure on care. Well, then we've got that Green Deal for the care, but it's nothing more than a declaration of intent. Joining in is entirely voluntary. Success isn't measured. That is why I want to know from the cabinet how it intends to help the care to reduce CO2 emissions. Does the Minister of Health realize that his colleagues in the cabinet are leading this escalating climate crisis? Does he realize that the long-term and short-term consequences of this will mainly affect Dutch public health? Does the Minister have any idea of these consequences? If not, is he prepared to give a detailed picture of these consequences for the Dutch situation? What is he going to do to correct his colleagues' unspoilt climate policy in order to reduce the cost of care on his file? Mr. Chairman. The climate crisis is the result of a system that drives the polluting and unhealthy consumption and short-term profits of businesses. The Dutch healthcare system is facing major challenges in terms of affordability, bureaucracy and maintaining care workers. But the most important question for concern and for the future is whether politics will ultimately have the courage to fundamentally protect public health from the excesses of that system. Unfortunately, the omens are not favourable at the moment. For example, residents of bulb fields who become sick from the poison fumes from agriculture, from the cabinet itself, should sit down with these bulb growers. Measures? Whoa, whoa, whoa, Medical experts are seriously concerned about air pollution in areas with intensive livestock farming. What does this cabinet do? This cabinet's gonna have another look at it. In the meantime, nothing happens. Or take the protein transition. Cabinet policy has been in place since 2009, but without measurable objectives and concrete measures, we have not come any closer. Instead of taking the lead in encouraging this change in behaviour, e.g. by increasing VAT on meat and/or lowering VAT on fruit and vegetables, the Prevention Agreement and the Climate Agreement continue to look only at supermarkets to encourage the sale of climate-friendly products. Only the Disk of Five is referred to without obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u194	I, of course, raised the issue of air pollution caused by intensive livestock farming. During the corona period, the livestock industry just went crazy. When we looked at the air pollution maps, we saw in the livestock areas that it was no longer as polluted as it was said. Traffic was gone. Everything was completely clean. The livestock business just went crazy. No pig less has been produced. No cow has given less milk in that period. The traffic was gone and it was completely clean. I would like to look at the studies on air pollution from livestock farming. We didn't see anything there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u195	It's special that you didn't see anything anymore. It is well known that intensive livestock farming is one of the largest three fine dust pollutants through. I can refer you to the Long Fund, which carries out a lot of research and has problems. We can also mention, for example, goat farming. In the village where I come from, there is a goat farming and there are people with severe lung problems. The investigation is still ongoing and is being postponed. People are stuck with that. I do not think we should discuss whether there is a fine dust problem in intensive livestock farming. I think we're gonna deny a problem. We really shouldn't want to take that step with each other anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u196	I am not denying at all that particulate matter is being emitted. But I also know that you can see that the areas where fine dust is emitted are often concentrations of large cities. That's where you see particulate matter. I know the research into the goat farming you're referring to. It's been going on for years. There is no causal link between these lung problems and the goat farms. It is noted that it has an effect and that people living near goat farms have lung problems more often. By the way, it's only a very small percentage. But there's just research, there's just research and there's just research, and they just can't find a connection. Indeed, investigations are always postponed; you are right to do so. The goat farming industry also wants these studies to be closed or that it is said: we simply cannot find it. Mrs. Van Esch suggests that nothing happens at all. No, that bandage just can't be found. They won't find out. So it may also be that there is no connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u197	I do not think there is a question asked, but I would, of course, like to respond. At the Party for Animals we like to work with a precautionary principle. The survey on goat farms is constantly being carried out and there are still no results. From the precautionary principle and because of the fact that many people in the Netherlands have become ill and deaths have been caused by, among other things, the Q fever, we think it is very important to apply a precautionary principle to possible new zoonoses, for example. That's not happening right now. As far as we are concerned, that is very worrying. I think it is... fine dust is one of the biggest... I don't think we say that as a Party for the Animals at all. Fine dust is a very big problem, also due to traffic, also by industry, also through aviation. Above all, let us not forget aviation and ultra-fine dust problems. Very relevant. But of course we cannot say: let us tackle it and not the intensive livestock farming, which is in the top three in the case of the fine dust problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u198	The Q-fever epidemic, between 2009 and 2011, I don't think I'm denying it at all. It was very serious. A lot of measures have been taken, which is why there have been no Q-fever outbreaks for ten years. Nine people had Q fever last year, but those infections also take place on a petting zoo, by a goat or a sheep. Dogs and cats carry Q-fever bacteria. You keep throwing it at intensive livestock farming, and I think that's just an unfair story. Because when we talk about zoonoses, about 27,000 people in the Netherlands are bitten by a tick every year. One in five people is left with Lyme's disease. Sorry, I'm saying it wrong: 1 million people are bitten by a tick and 27,000 people are left with Lyme disease. That's an animal from nature. Imagine if a pig or a chicken would give 27,000 people a disease; then we stood here on our back legs. In the Bekedam report, therefore, I would like you to tell it widely and not always to point out to intensive livestock farming that three-quarters of zoonoses come from animals from nature. They can indeed transfer it to animals, but also to humans. I would therefore ask Mrs Van Esch to go a little bit wider and not to start another kind of rant about intensive livestock farming, because it is much more nuanced and Mrs Van Esch knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u199	I think it is essential to mention intensive livestock farming for the problems that this poses for our public health. We see that it presents a health problem, a natural problem and a climate problem, so as long as I stand here, I will continue to argue for it. That does not alter the fact that I agree with you that human activity in nature also causes zoonoses. It is not for nothing that corona is most likely created because we intervene in nature, because we feel that we should constantly take on more nature and create even more deforestation for our way of life. Those are indeed subjects that we, as the Party for Animals, are also raising; we are not avoiding them at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas, please be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u201	I haven't said anything all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u202	Oh... but still!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u203	Then I'll do it for a very long time! Mrs Van Esch also talks about nitrogen and damage to nature. Last week, the PBL gave a technical briefing, on 14 October, in which it literally said: if the critical deposition value, i.e. the nitrogen impact on nature, exceeds the value we have established, it does not say anything about the state of nature. It only indicates that there is a risk or a chance that nature will suffer damage. The PBL itself says that we don't know about a lot of nature reserves at all. There are also nature reserves in intensive livestock farming that thrive. Returning, my only question is the following. I do understand the idea of the Party for Animals to do this, but I do not think that the Netherlands gets a fair story with this. Pull it wider, pull it more nuanced. Please also mention the uncomfortable truth that it does not have to be at all that there is damage to nature, but that there is a chance and that there are also natural areas that lie in nitrogen-sensitive areas and just do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u204	It sounds like a hopeful story. I would also like to tell the hopeful story, but at the moment I have few positive words about the nature crisis, the biodiversity crisis in the Netherlands. I feel like we haven't made any progress in recent years to deal with that. I would also like to mention this evening that this crisis also affects us in our public health and that we must take steps in this regard. I think that at the moment the Netherlands is looking too far away from the problems that this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u205	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u206	Thank you. I think I was back at the protein transition. I have indicated that, as far as we are concerned, it is too non-binding, for example when it comes to just pointing to the five-piece. Last year, the Planning Office for the Environment concluded that protein transition policy is still in its infancy, after 12 years. After 12 years, this policy is still in its infancy. Will the Secretary of State of the United States of America, therefore, make a commitment to the concrete objectives and the concrete measures to finally get the protein transition off the ground? We are curious about his reaction. Mr. Chairman. The overconsumption of animal proteins is strongly linked to the emergence of the new zoonoses that we have already talked about tonight, animal diseases that cross people and can cause a new pandemic. Following the aforementioned report, the WHO warns about these new infectious diseases. 80% of the expected infectious diseases in the coming period will be zoonoses. The Minister also knows that. Today another outbreak of the avian influenza virus has been detected, 36,000 animals have been gassed again and there has been a re-emergence obligation which had only been lifted for a few months. Bird flu has been around for almost a year now. At present, at least eight different avian influenza viruses are circulating in poultry farms around the world, viruses that can potentially cause much more victims than the corona virus. Virologists are concerned about the increasing number of people currently infected with avian influenza in China. A new virus variant that is related to the H5N8, the virus variant that has been going on in the Netherlands for a year, may have emerged. I wonder if the Minister has taken note of this news and also of the news today about that large avian flu virus. So what are we gonna do? Before the summer, the expert group on zoonoses came up with a number of crystal clear recommendations following our vote. Reduce the number of animals in livestock farming. Reduce the number of animals per holding and per region. Reduce the number of poultry farms in wetlands. Take action against climate change and biodiversity loss. Take the over-consumption of animal products. We are curious: where are the cabinet plans to work on this? When can we expect it? This minister has a constitutional responsibility to protect public health, but his colleagues from LNV and from EZK undermine that duty as far as we are concerned. We are curious whether the Minister will at least acknowledge this and hopefully work on it afterwards. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned this evening and, of course, part of our contribution: the Prevention Agreement. On every street corner people are tempted to make unhealthy choices: the kilo-buster in the supermarket, the soft drink in the vending machine at the station, the fries for the children after an afternoon swimming. Stacks of reports have been published in recent months. The Scientific Council for Government Policy, which has been mentioned a great deal this evening, writes about prevention. The Health and Society Council writes about this emphasis on prevention. Hundreds of doctors also sounded the alarm clock during the corona crisis. As early as 2018, evaluations showed that the ambitions of the Prevention Agreement without additional measures are not clear. A sugar tax is being lobbied out of the agreement by the industry. However, this Secretary of State, like many other parties in this Chamber, still wants to go through with that Prevention Agreement in the same way. That is why my question to this Secretary of State is: where can citizens get the confidence that some sort of prevention agreement 2.0 will change? Then what are we going to do with that place, hopefully that's not a place for business at the table? Mr. Chairman. Strong laws and price incentives are needed to make the Netherlands healthy. The increase in excise duty on tobacco has long been planned, but it has been postponed at the last minute. We still don't understand why. I wonder if the Secretary of State can explain that. We are also getting signals that there can be much too easily blackmailed with prices and offers in the new Alcohol Act. I wonder if the Secretary of State can comment on how we can prevent that. Mr. Chairman. The fact is that the budget for prevention has fallen steadily over the last 20 years. The Dutch currently pay €5,000 per person per year for medical and long-term care, but only €21 is spent on health promotion. So, as far as we're concerned, padding, wetting and patching up. In 2022, spending on health promotion will continue to fall by more than 6 million, while the House has voted in my motion that the prevention budget should at least remain at the level. In fact, structuralally, more than a billion euros are needed to make real meters. The cabinet still has a missionary status, but how are we gonna fix this right now? 'Cause the motion passed is there. However, we see a reduction in the budget. I don't think that's consistent with that motion. Mr. Chairman. After another motion passed by the Party for Animals and D66, the Secretary of State has figured out how to ensure that children at primary school can have healthy lunch and move extra. D66 was talking about that, too. Research by the RIVM shows that this significantly improves the health of the children, but also that the atmosphere in the classroom is more positive and less bullied. We are also curious to see if the Secretary of State is prepared to start a pilot at a number of schools, spread over a number of regions, to see how we can carry this ambition forward in practice. There is also more demand for the Healthy School approach every year than there are resources for it. That is why I have tabled an amendment to fix this. I am curious to hear the reaction of this Secretary of State to that amendment. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. If I go over my time, it's not so bad, I see. As far as we are concerned, however, unhealthy eating in children can only be combated by reducing supply and stopping child marketing, as has been mentioned today. A scientific publication has been published this week in which this is again demonstrated. We are not gonna get along with this Healthy School approach only if there are still candy and drink vending machines in schools, if municipalities can't stop fast food chains around schools and if baby cookies are still being sold that are three quarters of sugar. Baby cookies for babies: I really don't have any words to say that we still haven't dealt with that and those cookies are still in the shops for the taking. Several parties said it: the most fantastic cartoon characters insist on making it even more fun. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. As far as we're concerned, we're at a tipping point. As far as we are concerned, the time has come to tackle this unhealthy environment. As far as we are concerned, politics can and must contribute to a healthy future for our children. Society deserves a new government, which really puts public health at number one. We hope that this will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u207	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u208	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Is it normal that at this time tens of thousands of highly professional care workers leave their profession and that almost two years after the outbreak of the so-called corona crisis there has still not been scaled up in healthcare? Is it normal for a minister to say that a person who, perhaps because of covid, but possibly also because of other matters, needs ic-care, holds a bed unnecessarily occupied and thus denies another person surgery, because this person should have been vaccinated? Does the Minister also say this to people who have been smoking their whole lives and lying in the hospital with lung cancer? Does he also say this to people who have been too fat their whole lives and who are now rushing into Ic? Is it normal that the state-authorized NPO regularly, sometimes under the guise of satire, broadcast fascist fantasies of violence, in which unvaccinated people are "wanted to die" and threatened with death? It is even said about them that you should be able to "focus" them. The low point was last week an edited video, broadcast at the NPO, in which unvaccinated people are actually shot and shot to death. As a country, we ended up in an Orwell-like 1948 society, in which the outgoing cabinet and the media cartel consciously steered a division in our society. A world of exclusion, demonizing and declaring large groups to be completely free. A world of compulsion, urge and spit on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u209	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u210	I hear Mr Van Houwelingen ask the question several times: is it normal? I'd like to ask if he thinks it's normal to ridicule people infected with the HIV virus. Does he think it's normal for party leaders, specifically his, to declare in the media that white straights don't suffer because it's just a disease of black people and gays? When we talk about 'normal', I would like to ask this Member whether he thinks the statements made on behalf of his party and therefore on his behalf in the light of health are normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u211	This is, of course, the game that is played every time. You're reading something in the media. That's what we call the media cartel. I would advise you, Mrs Simons, to always return to the primary source. I hear Mrs Gündoğan say: this was a statement. Yeah, this was a statement, but you have to put it in context. There's really nothing going on. It's even common knowledge. I would therefore recommend that this be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u212	I just heard a yes. I hear Mr Van Houwelingen here saying that it is normal for us to ridicule people infected with HIV and to ridicule the whole disease, which still causes a lot of deaths and victims worldwide. He's turning racist against black people and gays only. I'm checking, but I hear Mr Van Houwelingen thinks that's normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u213	Of course that's not normal, and you know it. You're making a total mess of yourself right now. Of course I didn't say that. No one in our party says that. We are the least racist party in this entire Chamber. Believe it or not, we don't give a shit what anyone's background is or anything. We don't care. You're interested, by the way, in the light of this interruption. You're obsessed with it, I think. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u214	There is another interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u215	I am very pleased that at least you, Mr President, and I am able to hold a normal debate there you have that word again or to lead it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I would like to hear from Mr Van Houwelingen is this. I am very pleased that he states that his party leader's statements are not normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u216	I'm not saying that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u217	Mrs Simons has the floor. Then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u218	Perhaps Mr Van Houwelingen should first decide for himself what he thinks is normal. I am very pleased that he is critical of a cabinet, especially when it comes to corona strategies and the corona approach, but if we want to use the term "normal" with each other, then I really want to hear a yes or a no. Does Mr Van Houwelingen think it is normal to deal with these diseases in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u219	You don't even manage to specify it. Are we seriously all going apps now... do I have to review them here? Is that what this debate is about? Then we can ask for a different debate. You can appeal to me on everything, such as the party programme and the subject of this debate, but I am not going to review apps here. So we need to talk about this separately. I'd like to have a cup of coffee with you sometime. You're always welcome. Then we're gonna talk quietly about this statement, which apparently has disturbed you enormously. I really don't have anything else to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u220	Mr Van Houwelingen is the member who comes forward here and literally three times the question "is this normal?" On the table. I'm asking him about his normal. I'll ask him if he thinks it's normal. I ask him not to review all sorts of vague apps, but the statements made by his party leader himself. And then Mr Van Houwelingen says to me: it makes no sense at all; are we going to talk about what is normal or not? Mr Van Houwelingen put that question on the table. All I do is ask a yes-no question. I still don't really have an answer to that. I think it's a waste of my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u221	Our party has a lot of members, a lot of them, 50,000. We also have a lot of people's representatives. And then I'm supposed to keep track of everyone who does what and how I feel about it? You can visit us and always come and have coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u222	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u223	Then we'll talk about it quietly, maybe have a good time with Thierry. We really like that. Drink up and we'll talk about that statement and why you're complaining. But I can't judge this now based on what I've seen of it. However, I have every confidence in my party leader; I can tell you that. And it'll be all right. That is what I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u224	I would just like to say that I am very pleased that, even though Mr Van Houwelingen needed a lot of words for it, he once again confirms that he, his party leader, and I assume his party, think it is perfectly normal to stigmatize people in this way and throw a racist cloud over it. That's an answer, too. Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u225	Absolutely not, this is total shit. I'm going on because this is basically a waste of everyone's time here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u226	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u227	Yes, thank you. So a world of compulsion, urge and spit on. A world of fascist QR codes. This is a technocratic Brave New World, characterised by far-reaching mass control, in which even a Chinese-style social credit system is not excluded. The assessment of the budget VWS 2022 cannot be separated from the health care as an essential core task of the Dutch government, a health care that should be accessible to every resident of our country, and where everyone should have the care that is needed. That is the essence of this government task in the Netherlands. Yes, this Netherlands. It's supposed to be one of the richest countries in the world. We want to see an end to the forced weakening and moral degradation, here, in our country. Because it's our concern. The 2022 budget should be a turning point, but it does not. Mr. Chairman. Our democracy and the rule of law linked to it stand or fall with the extent to which our citizens recognise themselves in the way in which our country's coexistence takes shape. Citizens have become subjects in our country, subordinate to the power elite in which technocratic management and arrogant regentism prevail. The Dutch no longer govern themselves as citizens, but are managed as nationals. In this citizen democracy, this situation of new solidarity, information is constantly held back or one-sidedly coloured, or deliberately sketched incomplete images. The public authorities and the public administration see the citizens mainly as something you have to control or play, not as people you have to listen to. Here too, in the House of Representatives, this authoritarian and technocratic way of thinking prevails. For example, FVD has repeatedly asked for a hearing with critical non-OMT doctors and virologists. There are a lot of them, I can assure you. Each time this request was rejected by this Bedroom. Shut up, follow the regular line, turn up blinders, be obedient; that was the posture. This "citizen as a national" model is deeply anchored in this missionary cabinet and is far from the human dimension we advocate. For example, the dedain and the disinterest for the Dutch citizen are expressed in a minister who sits with his back to a public representative who speaks to him. We now see another example of this. But it also expresses itself in a Lower House that doesn't intervene and likes it all. Mr. Chairman. Good governance is always about control, supervision and accountability. This requires a sound and transparent system of checks-and-balances. Compliance with this contributes to trust in good and responsible governance, at VWS, and its embedding in society. VWS does not comply in any way with those principles of good governance, such as the treatment of Wob requests, the complete fog of, for example, the LCA and covid-related contracts and expenses, and the highly one-sided and additionally secret contracts concluded with covid vaccine suppliers. This minister creates his own rules. Surely it is not possible for him and VWS to have different rules than for directors and organisations in our society? There must be an immediate end to this fantasy of power from someone who thinks he is above all the rules in this democracy. That brings me to our five core observations. The first one. Is it normal that there is nothing substantial about transparency and significant improvement of financial management around expenditure, guarantees and subsidies as a result of the serious, deep orange red card that VWS and this minister received in the final act 2020? Two. Is it normal not to give a completely transparent and reconstruct insight, justified in one large integral chapter on covid, while this subject is so dominant in everything? Mr. Chairman. Is it normal that there should not be an integrated action plan for the maintenance, extension, reinforcement and remuneration of care workers, especially as the absence of such a plan jeopardises the continuity of care for every citizen? Is it normal that for years there have been very major bottlenecks in youth care, ggz care, care for the elderly and home care, and that there is nothing in this budget that is far from a transparent, integrated solution? Is it normal that VWS here seems to be acting like a muddy syringe eleven all the time? Mr. Chairman. Finally. This is the most important thing. Is it normal, or is it a disgrace, that no significant steps have been taken in the past 18 months to strengthen so-called pandemic preparedness? Is it normal that care has been further reduced, that the number of ICI beds per 100,000 inhabitants in our country is the lowest of the rich EU countries? The current number of ic-beds is absolutely insufficient. In 2015, the Netherlands had 2,200 ic-beds, but that was down to 1,100 at the beginning of 2020, while the population has grown, and this is the highlight of ic-capacity since the start of the corona crisis. How the hell did this happen? Germany has five times more ic-beds per capita than the Netherlands. In the meantime, this cabinet is making money available for training 5,000 boas and a 925 million euro test society. But this minister is unable to make enough money available for care, to train and hire additional staff and thus reduce the workload, to provide nurses and other care workers with a decent bonus and a well-earned salary increase. Because that's where the problem lies. Care is provided by people. Those people are moving out of care massively right now. Has the Minister taken note of the hashtag healthcare infarct and the disturbing stories that appear under that heading? Those stories include overloads, rosters that don't make ends meet, shortage of staff and outages due to illness and burn-out. Can the Minister respond to these people and their story? Can he immediately take camera and microphone and address these people, who are now at home with a whole range of complaints that are due to this total bureaucracy of care? Perhaps he would like to read with some Lahaije and De Lange, two Drentse ic-doctors, about this in their letter of fire of 15 October. Now there's a long quote from this letter of fire. Why? Because this Bedroom explicitly refuses over and over again to invite these critical doctors, of which I said there are many, for example for a hearing here. A huge disgrace, and that is why we, representatives of the people of FVD, are now making this critical noise here in the Chamber, on behalf of all those care workers who have been abandoned by the Cabinet and this Bedroom. Begin quote. "We are trying to avoid this crisis of care with a testing company and a control app. But this doesn't help the care. They are not sustainable investments. Moreover, they increase inequality and displeasure in society. In the meantime, real investments in health care have not been made. As doctors, we feel the need to stand up for the overall care. In the meantime, we have lost many of our colleagues: 27,000 colleagues have quit over the past year. And there haven't been 27,000 more. So we are left with fewer and fewer people, which increases the workload and requires regular delays and intensivecarebeds. The current care is therefore heavily overburdened! Years before the covid virus arrived in the Netherlands, we made it clear from the care several times that capacity problems would arise. But the scaling up of care was too late and it was insufficient, so the people in the care had to take the first blows again. The sometimes draconian covid measures have not eased our work, but rather made it difficult. We have had to separate from our ethics and methods in families and patients, in which patients have died alone. This is because, according to the general policy, no visitors were allowed. A lot of patients have been forced to transfer. Some of them died later, without the family being able to say goodbye, except perhaps one last kiss in the parking lot." "Everyone thinks that care is now jumping through corona. Nothing is less true," these doctors write. "In recent years, this cabinet has made substantial cuts in healthcare. In the corona debate, one of the main arguments for the current policy is: we do it for care. However, this is not how we experience it. The corona policy is not helping us and the money is being spent completely wrongly. It makes us very happy that an unprecedented amount of money is being invested in building up a testing society and a medically useless control app. This only increases inequality and resistance within our society." These doctors write: "For us, the corona admission ticket is absolutely no health benefit, only divisiveness and health-depleting stress. Moreover, as long as we are committed to a society that is dependent on mass vaccination, we run the risk of even more care workers leaving, because coercion never works. Both coercion and discrimination must have absolutely no place in health care. The measures taken by the government cost enormous money, increase the tension on the workplace and are often unfollowable. Some measures can be maintained in a hospital but not in society and thus also reduce public acceptance and understanding." You heard me. In health care, too, more and more brave doctors and nurses speak out against the waste, against the exclusion, against the madness. In the second term, we, as the FVD, will, with an amendment to the VWS budget, respond to the request of these two ic-doctors by removing around EUR 1.5 billion from the government's total failed, insane and counterproductive corona policy, to use that money where it is badly needed, namely for a €1 billion health bonus for the healthcare sector in general, just like this year. And we're looking at about half a billion more for a drastic improvement in working conditions and care capacity, on the ICIs in particular. Thank you. Moreover, I believe that this scandalous apartheid card should be abolished as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u228	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u229	I thought I would wait for you to finish your speech, because perhaps you are going to say something about the VWS budget. But above all, you have said a great deal about this Chamber. You've said a lot about corona. You have also said a lot of things that are not supported by science and not by a lot more doctors than the two you have your whole speech on. I am actually curious to know what you think of the ggz or of the homeless or of the women's care or of the general care services or of the home care or long-term care, the elderly. Actually, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u230	I am pleased that you are doing exactly this interruption, because you say that it is not supported by science. Now we have asked a lot of questions about all kinds of things. A very interesting answer has been given to one question in your Chamber. Maybe I can read it to the president if it's okay. That is what this minister does with critical doctors. That's your chamber question. That's a great Chamber question. Let me just read you the answer. "As indicated earlier, the family and youth inspection can take steps towards doctors who disseminate disinformation..." this is your parliamentary question... and deviate from the standards and guidelines of their own profession. This is what I have been talking to the IGJ about, and I certainly encourage this. The IGJ has sent a corrective letter about 50 times in recent months to doctors who clearly give incorrect information about the coronavirus or vaccinations to their patients or via social media." What's going on here? What do you think is happening here? So there are a lot of critical doctors, but they are afraid to speak out anymore. We want to organise a hearing, but we find that they do not dare. What does that mean for the science that everyone talks about here so often? There's no more science! It's become a belief, because you can't criticize it. So we do not get an answer to the questions either. There is a reference to directives, but they should not be criticised, because then you will get the minister after you. I'm really sorry for you, and this is a call to the entire Bedroom: you have to think yourself. That's always good, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u231	This, of course, invites you to respond. You didn't answer my question. Of course, that's up to you. And it was fairly predictable. I expected you to bring this up, so it's nice that you're giving this reaction. What makes working in healthcare so incredibly valuable is that we do it professionally and competently on the basis of science, education and guidelines. That's why we have such good care in this country. If you call an emergency service, you will always receive the best care based on the latest science, evidence based, according to the methods we have agreed with each other. That's a certainty you need to be able to rely on. You question that at any time. No, not with that little finger, because I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u232	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mrs. Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u233	Excuse me. Through the chairman: that non-verbal is also quite annoying, but I do not think you can do so much about it. I asked you what you think is important about the subject of VWS, which we are discussing tonight. Next week, in the Corona debate, you can deny science again, scare people, deny the usefulness of vaccinations and invite people who do not believe in science to sit on it. We can do all that next week. I am very curious about your story when it comes to the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u234	Just a little bit more about this. You say that we are questioning everything, but that is not the case. I admit here that most of the directives must have something behind them. Only, around covid, we don't trust the case anymore. That's what I just said. I would like to correct that, because that is the problem and that is what these parliamentary questions were about. In the second part of my speech, I said all sorts of things about the VWS budget, didn't I? We even have an amendment in preparation, so what are you disappointed about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u235	I'd like both of you to speak through the chairman. I keep repeating it. Mrs Paulusma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u236	Through the chairman, I am going to say to you: you cannot dunk in what you think scientifically and not scientifically. You say to me now: I think a lot of things in the care are scientific, but not covid. That's not how it works. I am still very curious about what you think of the issues in this portfolio, rather than the story of the Minister's failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u237	Mr Van Houwelingen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u238	I think I'm explaining. Why don't we trust the covid story? Because there can be no more criticism. That does not apply, as far as I know, to the cancer directive, for example, but perhaps it will. I think I explained it very clearly, so we shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u239	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past year and a half, we have shown how dependent we are on a robust and resilient healthcare system. The corona crisis has caused new pain points in our care and aggravated long-standing pain points. But in addition to the corona crisis, we also face another huge challenge, namely the affordability of our care, which is under heavy pressure. Our healthcare system is among the top internationally, but there is a threat of a doom scenario. In 2060 according to the WRR report, one in three people will have to work in healthcare and a quarter of our national spending will go to care. We have to pull everything out of the closet to avoid that. Mr. Chairman. In order to avoid that scenario, we must first actively prevent disease. We need to move from our healthcare system, which is actually a disease care system, to a true healthcare system. That is why we need to recognise the complexity of the problem and at the same time reduce it to the biggest bottleneck: tackling poverty, because poverty leads to stress and to unhealth. Poverty makes you sick. A comprehensive approach is needed to combat poverty and to reduce the health gap between scientifically and practically trained people. We, as Volt, really want to take the next step with the plan to combat poverty. Let me take a look at this pilot, which is about real prevention. Real prevention is care that does not lead to symptoms, symptoms or diseases. There is still a great deal to gain, both material and intangible. But partly because of the debatable funding system of our care, it is not worth investing in prevention at the moment. This could be a good place for decommitment of budgets, making it easier for municipalities and health insurance companies to work together to focus on prevention. Does the Minister agree with me on this? The WRR report has been referred to a few times before and we are going to have such a difficult time in healthcare. Much we cannot prevent, but prevention is better than cure. That's not a motto like this department in any department. For this to happen, care consumption really needs to be reduced, and that requires real prevention. I get a lot of bullshit lobby every day, from lifecoaches to health types, people who promote weight loss and you name it. But prevention is that you don't get fat at all. That often starts with poverty, already in the womb. There's real prevention in that. There's a real profit in that. So it's also about transcending domain dare and dare to act. Reducing healthcare consumption can only be addressed if this department has the courage, with social affairs, OCW, Finance and possibly EZK, Home Affairs and so on, to take on a pilot to improve and monitor poverty and poverty-related issues such as living, education, income, environment and energy. Several studies show the usefulness and necessity of this, such as the Erasmus School of Management study and the KPMG study. I quote from KMPG's report on Rotterdam: "By metro station on the Zuidline reduces life expectancy by one year." A whole year shorter life because you live a stop away. I would therefore like to know from our Rotterdam VWS Minister whether he knows this report and this sentence and whether he is willing to support this movement, to look beyond domain and comprehensively at care. If so, would he like to think with colleagues how a pilot could then be supported? Mr. Chairman. Our healthcare system is of high quality internationally. I would like to make a number of comments, because at the same time there is also a lot of concern that we have not been able to offer or have not been able to offer at all. Think of the delayed care by corona. The NZa estimates 200,000 surgeries. Think of the huge outflow among the care staff due to the plight of working conditions. Too high workload, wage issues and the lack of job satisfaction and sense of autonomy, inter alia because administrative burdens take up between 40% and 50% of working time. Several colleagues have already named it. Think of the long waiting lists in youth care, in the ggz, in the transcare. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions about these matters and I have a few suggestions for them. Is there a plan to make up for delayed care? If so, what does the plan look like? And to what extent has this been taken into account in the 2022 budget? Has there been any talk with hospitals in the border regions to take care of us? Then we'll go to Child Services. 1.3 billion extra in 2022, but in fact occasional money for a structural problem. An amount which is also used by the municipalities for closing financial deficits and for matters which have little to do with youth care. How can the Minister justify this? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there is also going to be work on reforming the youth care system. But how is the Minister going to ensure that this is first looked at from the client's perspective rather than just looking at the funding? This means: as early as possible when problems arise, directed by a care director per client. What do young people with complex problems need? And how can this be achieved as effectively as possible? In doing so, preventing the escalation of problems also means preventing higher costs of care. Then the ggz. During my last working visit to Brussels, I went there with two colleagues from here, there was talk of a real mental health pandemic. I'm sure there is. How does the Minister intend to ensure that people get to the ggz less quickly with their problems than with primary care, where many of the problems often belong better? Mr. Chairman. For trans-care, the image is just as sad, if not sadder. 10,000 people on a two-year waiting list. Some then wait another two and a half years for surgery. To address these shortages, more specialists are needed to reduce the pressure on academic settings for hormone distribution among others. But there is no mention of this in the budget. How will the Minister propose solutions to the shortage of gender surgeons and psychologists with specialist knowledge in this field? Then keep the care affordable in the longer term. It cannot be excluded that painful choices will have to be made in policy. Does the Minister intend to involve citizens more actively in making these difficult policy choices through civil fora? Mrs Van den Berg just asked about it. Because the creation of support is extremely important here. Are we working on a plan to remove unnecessary care, for example following the Bernhoven project? Mr. Chairman. There are many challenges, but there are also great solutions. First of all, there is the multitude of solutions in the area of prevention. I have just mentioned it and unfortunately I cannot name it all, but I would like to talk about one of the main points of concern, which is known to the Chamber to me by now: smoking. Smoking costs society EUR 33 billion net per year. And then we haven't even talked about the immaterial damage. More than 20,000 Dutch people die every year from the consequences of smoking and smoking. How does the Secretary of State look at the options for prevention in this area, in addition to higher excise duties? Secondly, e-health and healthcare innovation. The potential of e-health is enormous, both in prevention and curative care. Of course there are risks too. The budget says that e-health is a priority, but what obstacles are there now in the healthcare system to promote prevention and e-health, for example in relation to health insurers? Will there be monitoring of the increasing data use in healthcare? And how do we ensure that technology really reaches everyone, including elderly people with disabilities, people who are low-literate and people in the lower, vulnerable socio-economic positions? How can we better facilitate innovative start-ups according to the Minister? If we were to work more cross-sectorally, which means that our departments also cross-domains, we could more often come up with more creative and holistic solutions. Let us invest to encourage cooperation between knowledge institutions, which really brings about healthcare innovation. Take, for example, the pooling of knowledge at the universities of Wageningen and Leiden, respectively agri- and bioscience, aimed at pandemic prevention and zoonoses. What does the Minister think of such an idea? Are similar initiatives already taking place? We have already missed the boat on many themes. It would be terrible if this were to happen more often. Moreover, this cooperation would be perfectly in line with the EU's strategic pharma policy. Finally, Europe, you will not be surprised. We must not only look nationally across sectors, but also across national borders. Europe has shown in the pandemic that healthcare is not purely national. Think of Dutch people who ended up on German ic-beds. Boundaries didn't exist for a while. In view of the shared problem of risks to future pandemics, it is also good that a European Health Union is being pursued. I have just mentioned the option of having delayed care carried out by hospitals in the border region, but does the Minister also see that there are also challenges that do not seem to be primarily cross-border but are a shared challenge? Many other European countries, like us, are facing, for example, the problem of ageing and rising healthcare costs. Does the Ministry investigate how this is managed in other countries and have best practices been exchanged? That is, in fact, a strong international relationship. I'm really gonna finish this. The situation presented by Volt and a number of other parties here is a complex challenge. Complex challenges such as these require holistic, complex solutions. As a Volt, we are therefore in favour of looking far into the future and of making clear choices. Pleisters continue to take on a system that in fact requires a real delta plan, is not enough: no occasional money for a structural problem. Many areas have been over-wait-and-seeking and have not intervened in time when the first signals came out. Think of education and climate. In short, let us now take these signs seriously and get to work before it is too late, so that we can look back in twenty years' time and at least not say: if only we had intervened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u241	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Then I suggest we suspend for a very short time. Then we can stretch our legs and then we'll go to the last seven speakers. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u242	I would very much like to give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning I attended a demonstration of care staff at UMC Utrecht. They, and thousands of other nurses and caregivers all over the country, are wondering: what does the government have left to support care, how do we achieve more influx into the training and what is needed to provide continuity of care? It is a question against the background of care that is under pressure. Corona has had a major impact on health care, but it is far too easy to hide behind a crisis. This deprives us of the sight of structural shortcomings. And there are. Hospitals are merging, they're about to fall over or disappear. Emergency wards are closing the gate. In the past year, the emergency services alone at the Rijnstate Hospital in Arnhem closed five times. Hospital administrator Marcel Levi noted that some acute posts have been closed for one fifth of the time. Recently, eight of the nine emergency posts were closed at the same time in the northern provinces. Mr Agema quoted Levi, and it may be said again quietly, the situation is so alienating: closing emergency posts is a Dutch phenomenon, which occurs almost nowhere else in the world. In most countries it is even expressly forbidden to close an emergency station, and hospitals should only solve the problem behind the front door instead of carrying around with patients. Mr. Chairman. Last year, too, it was explicitly confirmed how health, social contact and well-being are basic needs of every Dutchman. Care is not an additional luxury, but a basic necessity. In view of this, my group is happy to make the following considerations when discussing the budget. I begin with JA21's concern about the resilience of our care. More and more emergency services are closing down. That has been mentioned in this debate. There aren't enough trauma centers, and I can go on like this. Since I can assume that the Minister has the bottlenecks in mind, my question is which bottleneck is on top of number one in order to be dealt with. Does the Minister also have a view on regional coverage? For example, there have been some alarming signals about the mergers in Amsterdam and what they mean for the trauma centres there. That was also discussed earlier in a committee debate. How does the Minister pick up these signals? Then the ic capacity. The budget makes money available for scaling up to 1,350 ic-beds and the flexible scaling up to 1,700 ic-beds and the necessary increase in the number of beds in nursing departments. We are talking about scaling up which is a structural necessity and not about unnecessary expansion for luxury, as has just been suggested. In addition, money is needed for training related to scaling up. How difficult, difficult, difficult it is to put those beds and attract nurses, we have heard in all keys. The big question is: when is this enlargement and everything that is needed for it finally really going to get off the ground? Tighter: when was the result achieved? For it is too easy to keep saying that it will not be realized in the coming months. Is this scaling-up sufficient to maintain comparable ic capacity in relation to comparable countries? I realize that healthcare systems differ from one country to another, but because of a lower level of ic capacity it is not written away by referring to the unique nature of Dutch care. We need people standing by the beds. The shortage of specialised nurses in particular makes it difficult to get the roster around, but the influx into the training courses is small and the outflow in the first few years is too large. The problem isn't that people don't want to work in care. The problem is that many people leave within two to five years. What does the Minister see as the most important spearheads? It has been discussed on many occasions that only money does not provide the solution and will not provide a speedy solution, but what does the Minister see as the most important outcome? Anyone who wants to take care of the bed wants to sit behind a desk as little as possible. In the care sector, passionate professionals work, who know what they're doing. Steering is necessary, but unnecessary management prevents caregivers. A salary worth paying is worth a lot, but in the experience of daily work money has little value. What does have value for the joy of work is autonomy. This subject lives widely in this Chamber, but the budget does not pay attention to this insight. The million-dollar note will do that again. With our agreement, it is described that innovation in the way of work can give care professionals more control and promote their job fun. Earlier, the Ministry of Health, together with the healthcare sector, prepared the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg to reduce the experienced regulatory burden. What has this achieved in concrete terms? Is there any progress in the reported work pleasure? Mr. Chairman. Care is also given outside the hospital. The cabinet notes that the growth of the labour force and the number of carers cannot keep pace with this growing demand for care. In this meeting, heartwarming examples of looking forward to each other have been named. After all, as more people have paid jobs, the government's labour market policy is directed towards this, there will be fewer and fewer people who will be able to afford sufficient time to provide care. The word "overtaxed" has been dropped. How does the Minister intend to ensure that the promotion of family care takes into account the reality of high employment rates and little time? When we talk about family care, we talk about our elders soon. Older people want to live at home on their own for a longer time. They can, but the cabinet notes that there are still many obstacles and that the housing market is not based on housing for the elderly. Mr Van der Staaij's interruption about home can die, but it goes against the disappearance of the possibilities of home care in the last phase of life, speaks volumes. JA21 looks forward with interest to the work agenda to be drawn up with which the next cabinet will work. One of the acute problems for family care is that municipalities impose different requirements for a statement to underpin the need for family care. JA21 wants a quick end to attempts to invent the wheel for themselves and to local cock behaviour of administrators and civil servants. The Minister consults with VNG and MantelzorgNL on a family care passport. Can the Minister promise that this will be settled in the near future? It cannot be that difficult to put an end to this bureaucracy, so that family care homes can be built without difficulty. Finally, Mr President, young people. Last but not least. The cabinet notes that the youth system is unsustainable. Only six years after the decentralisation of young people, this is a harsh finding. In fact, with a single sentence, the cabinet puts the signature of one of the three largest decentralisations in the middle of page 10 of the budget states VWS for 2022. According to the cabinet, a better organisation is needed, but the Dutch ggz writes to the Lower House that it is striking to find that the outgoing cabinet around youth doesn't really look beyond 2022, so next year. The cabinet does not look beyond the budget we are talking about. This is about the difference between vision and muddying. Does a so-called reform agenda offer any perspective on a more sustainable youth system or is it working on the existing structure of patchwork? Is it time to dare to recognise that transferring youth care to cooperating municipalities should be seen as a failure? Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a great deal about the corona policy. As I said at the beginning of my contribution, the corona crisis has revealed weaknesses in care. It's late by now. Given the limited speaking time and the fact that we have three further Corona debates planned, let me leave that for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u244	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u245	Madam President. There is every reason for a deep bow to all healthcare workers who are working for us day in, day out again, for the fellow man and for so many people in our country. Today I would also like to explicitly name the carers and the volunteers, also fed by an experience. Yesterday, I was at the Odense House in Papendrecht. I don't know if you know that, but I can tell you that a walk-in like this is incredibly beautiful. People with dementia can spend valuable hours there and their carers can catch their breath. Also volunteers from the neighbourhood, sometimes also older volunteers, do their work again with joy. I actually found it so striking that during a working visit you spend a few hours there and then so many people say: I get happy here. They spend hours there, find or get a meaningful day's work and support each other. Such a meeting centre is a wonderful facility. It also fits exactly with the objective of the National Dementia Strategy. Yet you can see that it is still difficult to achieve in many municipalities. The aim of the National Dementia Strategy is that in 2030 80% of people living at home with dementia will have access to such a meeting centre in the vicinity of their home. But is that really gonna work? My question is: how can volunteers who set up such a thing be more cared for? How can this funding be made easier? Now you also stumble upon the fact that municipalities say: "Yes, Wmo... We are already on black seed. It's hard to get it done." Sometimes little money is needed to make such a beautiful provision work. That is why I am asking the Minister this question. It also shows how, with a shortage of staff, informal and formal care will become more important in the coming period. There are more and more people who need care. There are fewer people who can provide that care. I think an important question for the future is: how do we prevent this scarcity from leading to a deterioration of care? We have, of course, had a lot of debates. We'll keep doing that. Today, too, many ideas have emerged about what can happen to get and keep more people in care. But no matter how hard we try, it will happen from time to time that we have to say: something is going wrong here. The health care infarction has already been mentioned. My question is: how can we identify and remedy this as quickly as possible? If we have sufficient vision now, my question is to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The WRR, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, points out that care provision is most under pressure in areas where the population is ageing relatively rapidly. There is further pressure on viability in the shrinking regions. In Zeeland, for example, they already lack dozens of dentists. It's been mentioned before. In parts of Flevoland they are jumping for general practitioners and specialists in old age medicine. Should there not also be a concrete plan to tackle the acute shortage of staff in shrinking regions even more specifically? Then there is the regulatory burden, also such a point that always comes up in the debates. That is right, because we hear every time on work visits and from the stories of healthcare workers how they feel about this workload and regulation pressure. These remain major bottlenecks. We hear how they run into it. It is important that we have more confidence in the knowledge and skills of those healthcare professionals. I'm talking less rules. Then, of course, the Minister is right to say 'we have already had scrapes and such' and 'it is not just from the government'. That's all true. But I thought I'd look for a concrete example. Now take such a new scheme annual accounting Act health care. This is an additional set of accountability requirements for healthcare providers whose regulatory pressure review board continues to say that usefulness and necessity have not been sufficiently demonstrated. Is that really going to be done with that? Is that gonna be revoked, taken back? Mr. Chairman. Especially in the last phase of life, the availability of good care is extra valuable. Palliative care deserves more priority. We have not talked enough about this in recent years. A year ago, I tabled a motion with the Christian Union to identify bottlenecks in accessibility and funding of palliative care. It was earlier in an interruption debate with Mrs Tellegen. My question is: when can we expect the implementation of this motion? Mr. Chairman. It is good that the institution grant for 113 Suicide Prevention is maintained in 2021. We are pleased that next year we will be able to investigate suicide prevention thanks to a previously adopted amendment. As far as the SGP is concerned, the long-term funding of both aid and scientific research is rapidly being clarified. That is what is needed in practice. Data exchange within mental health care may be vital. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion for a resolution in order to examine the possibility of providing a legal basis for this? In practice, this is precisely what needs to be done. Mr. Chairman. In the field of medical ethics, I would like to raise a very specific point that we did not have that particular attention for earlier, namely the recent reports that the number of women who freeze eggs is increasing for non-medical reasons. We are concerned about the risks involved. In countries such as Spain, there has been a practice of commercial donation of ova. In the Netherlands, this is forbidden, but our question is: is it really ensured that it is not misused, so that it can compete with knowledge of who the biological mother is? Mr. Chairman. Finally. I know there is still a separate debate on corona to come, but because it is a subject which concerns us all so much over and over again, I also found it rather uncomfortable to leave it unnamed here. It is precisely against the background that the cabinet is considering new corona measures to be hatched on them that I would like to share with you the concern that we see that unvaccinated people are increasingly classified as scapegoats. We can certainly see that I am also saying out loud here that vaccination contributes to preventing the spread of the disease and hospitalizations, but if the Minister says to unvaccinated people 'this bed should not have been occupied'....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This contributes to the division of society. It's perceived as oil on the fire. People feel grieved about it. I would therefore like to remind the Minister of the advice of RIVM's behavioral scientists, who say: respect and acknowledge the legitimacy of different opinions and perceptions in the social debate. Didn't it go wrong at this point? Would the Minister like to reflect on that once again? We call on the cabinet to look wider than vaccination alone. Examples include the introduction and use of innovative medicines and treatments. We are getting signals that this is actually going too slowly. How can the process be promoted so that authorisation can be speeded up, with all due care, as well as post-authorisation? Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is painfully exposing the vulnerabilities in our healthcare system. There was not enough fat on the bones, for example on the ic's. Today I heard another cry from a nurse who said: the scaling up of hospital capacity simply failed. What can be done to recruit more ICI personnel now, to remove the obstacles that exist? Finally, I also mention public health care. Why has this budget not yet included a proposal to strengthen the public health sector? We believe it is necessary to take an important step in 2022. That is why our amendment to reserve additional funds for strengthening the control of infectious diseases in the coming year. Of course we would like to hear the reaction of the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u246	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u247	Thank you, Mr President. When you buy a car in the Netherlands... I see you already look. You think: are we in budgetary treatment IenM? No, it's not. But when you buy a car in the Netherlands, you are legally obliged to take out car insurance. You know all about it: you choke off websites to get you informed, you compare prices, you look what's in the cover, you're looking for the most suitable car insurance. You will find that car insurers take into account your age, your residence, the number of non-life years, to assess the risk that you will claim damage from the health insurance company. In jargon this is called "damage burden." With a car I understand that, but when it comes to something fundamental like your health, there is a similar principle. Because health insurance companies calculate the damage burden of their contribution contributors. Actually, that's the biggest system error in our system. A human being is not a car, a home or a home that needs insurance. Getting quality care is something that every Dutch person should be entitled to, regardless of age, care gravity, the thickness of the wallet or... I think it is a terrible word.. the possible damage burden. Mr. Chairman. Fifteen years ago, a radical change in the health system was introduced. The idea was that by adding market incentives to the system insurers could buy more sharply. Competition would reduce prices and increase quality. Fifteen years later, care institutions are run as companies and profits are at the heart of management, while care staff are working their teeth. The administrative procedures seem to have become so complicated that almost no one understands. Almost half of the healthcare providers feel that there is insufficient qualified staff. The actual care time has fallen considerably due to increased bureaucracy. This is making my group really sad. We get even sadder when we see the shocking forecasts for the coming years, as a result of the coronapandemic. For the period 2022-2025, the Central Planning Office expects an increase in healthcare expenditure of a total of EUR 16 billion. The enormous pressure from the corona pandemic has shown us that it really has to be different. I am therefore counting on the negotiating parties, D66, VVD, CDA and Christian Union, not to be put under pressure by one party or another, not to cling to the current system and to propose fundamental improvements to make our concerns future-proof. This simply includes a fundamental discussion about the set-up. Mr. Chairman. One of the great vulnerabilities we have seen in recent times due to the corona crisis, which has been painfully exposed by the corona crisis, is the situation in mental health care. The cowardly coronation measures, such as curfews, visitor regulations and the closure of gyms, I can mention many more have led to reduced contact and little access to facilities that ensure that people's mental health can remain stable. In the Netherlands more people than ever suffer from a burn-out or a span. As many as 75% of all reports of mental illness at the national registration of the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases is the result of a burn-out. No less than 1 million Dutch people are dealing with mental health problems and the most shocking is the mental state of our young people. The latest figures show that almost 53% of students are already suffering from burn-out complaints, such as emotional exhaustion, one in five students are suffering loneliness and 9% of students are even at risk of committing suicide, suicide. 9%, Chairman! 9%, that's almost one in ten students considering suicide. That should really scare us. As far as DENK is concerned, you can safely speak of a mental health epidemic on top of the corona pandemic. And when I see how this cabinet intends to tackle this epidemic, that is far from enough. It's a petty thief taking down a dump. What is actually being done to prevent mental disorders, especially among young people? Can the Secretary of State explain why mental health was not included in the National Prevention Agreement? Can the Minister explain why loneliness among young people is being dismissed under the umbrella approach of the Social Service Action Programme? Don't lonely young people deserve a specific approach with corresponding objectives, in line with the "An against loneliness for the elderly" programme? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Not only does it lack a targeted approach, but it also lacks a foundation for solutions. Take the ggz, which has been dealing with persistent problems and rising waiting times for a long time. As far as DENK is concerned, you don't just solve this by throwing a lot of money at it. To solve the problem, the perverse stimulus must disappear from the ggz. This means that I say it again: a change in the system. I hope that will really be there in the coming period. Because how can it be that ggz providers can make millions of profits and citizens' contributions are still increasing? How is it that there is still a shortage of staff, while forecasts from 2000, 2005, 2010 and 2015 show that there would be a shortage of healthcare staff? Are the Minister and all his predecessors simply unable to solve the problem of the shortage of staff? And how did this happen? Is there not enough attention? Is it underrated? All these well-meaning advices and reports just disappear in a drawer somewhere? How can it be that in the treatment of mild symptoms, ggz institutions can face a bonus, which means that chronically ill patients are always placed at the bottom of the treatment list? How can it be that the ggz writes out patients who are already in treatment and invites new patients, while there are simply no treatment spots, a course of events that led to the resignation of two board members from a larger healthcare provider in the ggz here in the region? Is the Secretary of State aware of this violent reality within the ggz? The answer can't be no. Mr. Chairman. For DENK it's ready to go: DENK wants to get rid of having a profit in health care. The money raised by the contributor and the taxpayer must either stay in care, or it must go back to the contributor. For example, we can finally implement the long-cherished desire of DENK and the majority of this Chamber to eliminate its own risk as a whole. Mr President, I am only on my second point. And I see I'm running in time, but I'll compensate, I promise. The mouth care. Of all existing diseases, oral diseases are the most common. It is the basis for many life-threatening diseases. And many of these diseases can be prevented or treated by starting at the mouth. The health benefits are particularly high in people with cardiovascular disease and diabetes. It is therefore unimaginable for DENK that oral care is not included in the National Prevention Agreement. And I ask the Secretary of State again: why isn't mouth care in the National Prevention Agreement? According to DENK, it is also extremely important that anyone who needs acute oral care has immediate access to it. This is particularly true for people who avoid oral care due to financial pressure. DENK therefore proposes, and I have tabled an amendment to this effect, to make EUR 100 million structurally available to finance acute oral care for people who cannot afford oral care. I have tabled an amendment on this, and I am counting on the warm agreement of the CDA colleagues, because this is a problem that they are also very concerned about. What are we doing with the vulnerable group of elderly people who still live at home and disappear from the radar, that group of elderly people for whom a healthy dental record is crucial for eating? Because it leads to malnutrition in this group. What efforts does the Minister intend to make to identify and help them? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point, which is traditionally from my group culturally sensitive concerns. Since 2015, we have been calling for this to be taken into account during budgetary discussions. And every year, the Minister does a little bit of flatten this issue. This year, culturally sensitive care in the answer to the actual questions is a bit shrouded away under "personalised care." And this year, too, the Minister for Cultural Sensitive Care is ticking off with a modest tip of 5 million euro towards the Pharos Foundation. With this I try not to take anything away from Pharos, who does fantastic work with the resources they get. But 5 million... 5 million in a sector with 100 billion per year is only 0.005%. Then you can't say it's a priority. That can and must be done better. DENK wants a structural commitment to culturally sensitive care, and for this simply to be made more available in the budget. Because in view of the changing demand for care that the current diversity raises, attention should also be paid to the theme of culturally sensitive care as far as DENK is concerned. And I am not saying that because that was the Minister's reply last year.... that the Minister should prescribe that. No, he can drive this, he can facilitate this, he can encourage this issue to get more attention. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I deeply regret the general state of affairs at VWS when it comes to these Wob requests. Despite court rulings which oblige outgoing minister Hugo de Jonge to comply with Wob's requests, he firmly refuses for the time being. He has to deliver before November 30th. And instead of listening to the judge, his ministry is in a hurry looking for a dozen lawyers, not to have to comply with those Wob requests. Why is that? Are we hiding something? That's not supposed to happen, is it? A display that discredits the entire cabinet in view of the promised cultural change - as far as possible. A display that only strengthens the increased distrust of many Dutch people, and that can never be the intention. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to urge the Minister to comply quickly with the judge's ruling to deliver those documents, even if it is to save his last little bit of credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u248	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch healthcare system: we are proud of overalls. But how do we keep that care affordable and accessible to everyone? This is one of the biggest challenges facing us in the years to come. We will have to make great strides in this. That won't be easy. Tough choices have to be made. These difficult choices will have to be made in broad social dialogue. We cannot keep asking for endless money for business and not looking at where we can do it better and cheaper. I'd like to highlight a few topics that I think are important. I am convinced, and with me many advisory councils, that investing in them in the short term will bear fruit in the long term. The government often intervenes too late. We saw it with the housing crisis. We could've seen that coming for years. I understand. Of course, it is only interesting to make a point of something when the subject gives real visible problems, the media pick it up and so it really lives in society. Then it's much more appreciated by the voters. That is not my way of doing politics, but unfortunately it sometimes works that way. But if we do not intervene now in many areas, it will be far too late. This is already the case in a number of areas. Mr. Chairman. The VWS Ministry has a number of major challenges ahead in the coming years. It is therefore important for the Ministry of Justice to have its own affairs in order, as has already been said, because how else can the Ministry face the major challenges that await us in the area of care? Unfortunately, the General Court recently concluded that culture and financial management in the Ministry are not in order. The corona crisis has made it painfully clear that the Ministry was unable to cope with such a crisis. This problem has been going on for years and nothing has ever been done about it. Culture change takes time. That is why it is important that the Ministry proceed as soon as possible. The Court would be informed of the state of play in this autumn. I have tabled a motion to that effect in the debate on responsibility. Today, we received a letter stating that KPMG is starting to change, of which culture will be an important part. I've read KPMG's analysis. I think it is important for the Chamber to be kept regularly informed of this, but the letter states that the Minister will not inform us until the next progress report. It's not until spring 2022. KPMG's analysis does contain an approach, but not a timetable. I can imagine, at least, that is what I hope the start of the change has already been made. Can the Minister inform us about the latest state of affairs regarding this improvement process? How is this cultural change being shaped at the moment? Mr. Chairman. It is not only the Ministry that needs to be in order and well prepared for all the challenges, but also society needs to be prepared. It has been said before: the Scientific Council for Government Policy has recently published a report on the sustainability of care. One of the recommendations is to engage in social dialogue on the affordability of care, which is an extremely important issue that has been taken from my heart. It was even in my election program. I know this is up to another cabinet, but I would like to ask the Minister to work out what is needed to initiate such a social dialogue. It is beginning to live wider in society, and I would therefore urge that we at least work out what is needed so that the next cabinet can get on with it quickly. That brings me to the next point. All plans that are then devised to meet all the challenges must be properly implemented. It is therefore important that we learn from previous action programmes. What went well and what went wrong? The evaluation of the Langer action programme has recently been sent home to the Chamber. This shows that many of the ambitions of the programme have not been met. Parties indicate that no real breakthroughs have been achieved and that bottlenecks have not been resolved with this programme. The programme was too complex and there was a lack of coordination. The Rotterdam Court of Auditors was already devastating about the local elderly policy in Rotterdam, which is based on the Langer Thuis programme. Does the minister have eyes on other cities where things aren't going well? How does he see the role of the Ministry to adjust to this? How come we're just finding out about this now? Can the Minister state what happens to the recommendations contained in the analysis? In the letter on this subject, I read that there is a broad wish of the parties from the field to proceed with the recommendations. How does the Minister see his role in this? Mr. Chairman. I would argue that the Ministry should be involved in the collection and/or monitoring of all lessons learned and best practices from previous evaluations, in order to see whether new action programmes or plans do not make the same mistakes again. The Ministry should monitor the implementation of the programmes in practice and adjust them in good time if necessary. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. A major challenge in healthcare, but also in other areas, is the increasing ageing of the population. I've hammered on an integral generation policy several times. I would like to remind you once again of the report of the theme Committee on Older People's Policy of 2005. Care is a major part of this integrated generation policy. We now have around 1.3 million inhabitants over 75 years of age. By 2030, this figure almost doubled to 2.1 million over 75s. That's eight years from now. That's hard. The Ministry of VWS grants the initiative Ageing 2040. This national programme should ensure that a socially supported vision and transformation agenda is created for the future of ageing in the Netherlands. I very much welcome that, of course. I spoke to the initiators before the autumn recess. As far as I am concerned, the question is what will ultimately happen to the outcome of this programme. The report of the Thematic Committee on Older People's Policy of 2005 has disappeared in a drawer. You can see that this happens with multiple reports. I would like to hear from the Minister what it takes to ensure that the Older Age 2040 initiative succeeds, and to implement it. Mr. Chairman. Then the labour market in health care. One of the biggest challenges within care is staff, or rather the shortage of care staff. How do we keep enough professionals for care and how do we ensure sufficient inflow? We have recently discussed this in a committee debate. In this, I advocated a deltamaster plan for labour market policy in healthcare, which also looks clearly at the implementation of all advice and involving all relevant ministries, for example Social Affairs and OCW. One of the conclusions of a dynamic evaluation of the Work in Care Action Programme is that it is more national-based on implementation and no longer on the development of ideas and advice. We are aware of the problems. The biggest challenge now is to implement and implement it in practice. The Committee therefore concludes that more national direction is needed on national bottlenecks. Once again, I hope that the current Minister will pass these conclusions on warmly to his successor. In the committee debate, I argued in favour of a different way of looking at employment contracts. I know that there have been discussions at the Ministry of Social Affairs to look at the possibilities of changing the organisation of a contract of employment, for example as a kind of flexible employment contract, with associated legal safeguards but with flexibility, so that the care professional himself retains control. It's easier to keep people inside. In the committee debate, the Minister had promised to come back to this, but that has not yet happened. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks of this idea and whether he is prepared to think further about it. I had also asked about the mismatch between the first internships and the curriculum offered to students in the first half of the year, particularly in the MBO. I've seen young students as soon as they start doing their internship, usually being the first in nursing care, are poorly prepared because the training doesn't fit well, and so they're pouring out. In the letter on the commitment, the Minister returns to improving the quality of training. I would like to ask the Minister once again to look closely at the curriculum together with OCW's colleague, so that it can be connected to the internships and thus prevent any leakage. Another issue that has been discussed a great deal today is prevention. It's a tool that can save us healthcare costs. That's what it takes. This is also one of the recommendations in the WRR report. The SER and the Health Council already preceded the WRR. In 2005, the elderly committee also called for investment in prevention. In the meantime, little has happened. An unhealthy lifestyle cost 9 billion euros in healthcare expenditure in 2015 and caused 35,000 deaths. Mr. Chairman. A bad lifestyle simply doesn't come from making bad choices. It also has to do with the circumstances in which someone lives. Several ministries should also be involved in this issue. An integrated vision and approach are needed, across different domains. In my view, the Prevention Agreement is inadequate in this respect. It has a vision of prevention that is far too far-fetched. I therefore hope that the next cabinet will put this as one of the priorities. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks of the WRR's recommendations. It takes courage to focus more on prevention and it requires rethinking. When I asked the Prime Minister during the General Political Reviews how by the end of 2020 only 13 of the 39 targets were removed from the Prevention Agreement, he indicated that we live in a free country and that people, for example, continue smoking if they want to. By doing so, he implies that addiction is a choice and that children who start consciously do so and choose to still smoke 20 or 30 years later. If the government tries to seduce people to make other and healthier choices or if the government takes action, then people soon experience that patronizing, but actually that's what has been said earlier today, the food and tobacco industries do the same. They tempt people to make unhealthy choices. That's actually a form of patronizing. Those industries spend billions on marketing for a reason. But if the food and tobacco industries can do that, so can the government. Of course, the industry has much more budget for this type of marketing, but I think we can and must invest more in prevention and marketing methods, in order to encourage people to do so and to tempt them into a healthy lifestyle. Then family care, Mr. Chairman. 4.4 million Dutch people are caregivers. They take on 70% of home care. A few years ago, the Social and Cultural Planning Agency calculated that the economic value of care is more than EUR 6 billion. Carers are of enormous value, but the pressure on them is enormous. The growing shortage of care staff and the increasing ageing of the population will only increase the pressure on carers. Good support for carers, fortunately, colleagues, who have already mentioned this, are necessary, but also rewarding. The Committee on Older People's Policy also made recommendations on this in 2005: make family care attractive, both financially and organizationally, through good grace care. In the meantime, little has happened on this point. In the Wmo it says that the municipality comes up with an annual plan to enable carers to carry out their tasks as much as possible, but what does that actually mean? Frameworks which the municipalities must comply with are lacking, while under that law a huge appeal is made to carers. There is always a first look at whether a caregiver can pick up tasks before regular care is used. It therefore seems logical to me that carers should be given even better support. Unfortunately, in practice, it appears that money that is actually intended for care support is sometimes used by municipalities to fill other gaps in the budget. I will therefore deal with this in the Home Affairs budget. The agreement Together strongly supports care, but is still far too non-binding and is not sufficiently addressed in practice. I agree with the VNG that the municipalities should have a sufficient budget for the tasks they represent. But in fact, it's kind of crazy that the government spends an incredible amount of money on this kind of thing every year, and there's zero responsibility for that and no demands on how that money is spent. I'd like a response from the Minister. At the beginning of 2020, Clémence Ross, the driver offered her report to the Minister with recommendations to make respite care more available locally and better suited to the needs of carers. Almost two years later, insufficient consideration has been given to how these recommendations can be implemented in a structural manner. I would also like to call for more national direction on implementation, because we see in other programmes and agreements that things often go wrong on that point. Are there any lessons to be drawn from the evaluations of the Work in the Care and Langer Home action programmes that could increase the chances of this agreement being successful? I think it's a good idea to look at that. Let us do everything we can to make this agreement a success. I'd like a response from the Minister. In order to ensure that all the interested parties in the regions come to the table and to follow up on the insights and movement that the rural respite driver, Clémence Ross, has initiated, I would like to call for regional respite drivers or respite coordinators. This could be financed by the central municipalities and the drivers could be linked to the coordination functions. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to say something about the ggz. We've known for a long time that things aren't going well in the ggz. There's been huge cuts, and there's huge waiting lists. In particular, the group of young people aged between 16 and 23 often falls between shore and ship. More and more young people with complex help questions are getting stuck in our healthcare system. Young people who move from the youth ggz to the adult ggz face long waiting lists and hassle with funding. There is also difficulty with the complexity of care to find and realize, for example, a good stay for these young people. As a result, young people do not feel heard and sometimes even end their lives, even in a closed institution. Before the autumn recess, we had a round table with older people, young people and experts. There is no light between their stories about what these young people are experiencing with multi-problems. As the mother of a child with PTSD due to sexual abuse, who tried to commit suicide in the last year, I recognize these stories letter by letter. They've all touched me deeply and stirred me. The incomprehension of the locker to be sent to the wall, when older people are put out of play, watching your child slip even further through the assistance: it traumatizes not only the child, but also the whole family. Mr. Chairman. The call for more money is really not the answer here. The answer is that a major cultural change must take place here. The answer is that constructive cooperation between municipalities, centres of expertise and expert teams is needed, making it easier to find the way in the care system. The answer lies in removing the gap between the different health care laws in order to be able to provide lifelong guidance to these young people. The answer lies in the fact that parents and children need to have more influence on their case and on their own decision-making process. This leaves a great deal to be desired. The answer is also in more knowledge sharing, which is still far too little. There must be a clear vision in this area of the overall care of these young people and their families. Mr. Chairman. The problems in the ggz are immense. Do the directors agree with me that this should be a separate portfolio in the upcoming cabinet? Let me ask you another question. At the beginning of July, I adopted a motion asking for a discussion with pharmacists and patient organisations to identify bottlenecks in access to medicines and to inform the Chamber about this for budgetary treatment. In our country it now takes an average of 500 days for a new medicine to be on the market. In Germany this can be done in 30 days. The Innovative Medicines Association has started a campaign called #back to 100 days. Now I read in the letter of commitment that the Secretary of State is engaged in talks with both the pharmaceuticals and the Patient Federation, but I hear from the field that these talks with the Patient Federation have not yet taken place. Can the Secretary of State explain why this must take so long and when we hear in concrete terms what is coming out of these talks? Finally, Mr President. I don't want to leave it unnamed either. I'd still like to talk about corona. No one is for a division in our society. The Netherlands is a country of polders and in most cases I am very much in favour of it. But in this case it is about public health. I therefore believe that there should be much more national direction in the Netherlands on this subject. We are a country where nearly 18 million people live on a small surface. Of course the freedom to make personal choices is a great thing, but personally I find it unimaginable that there are people who, given the enormous impact of this pandemic, do not allow themselves to be vaccinated and thereby endanger others, but then want to sit in front of the front row for a dime, want to be able to enter everywhere and find no further measures necessary. Our ic-capacity is limited, and there are now mainly people who have not been vaccinated. They are there on average for about 17 days. A patient who has to undergo cardiac surgery is on average two days. So a recording of a non-vaccinated corona patient prevents eight others from undergoing their important, often life-saving operations. We also get a lot of reports from people with vulnerable health and also from older people who, in view of the rapidly increasing number of infections, are staying home for fear of becoming ill despite their vaccination. I hear from young people that they still don't let themselves be vaccinated because they don't think they're gonna get sick. Ic nurses also say that, for example, people who end up on ic and have not been vaccinated are incredibly sorry. My question to the Minister is whether we can still provide more targeted information in order to increase the vaccination rate even further. Mrs Tellegen of the VVD already mentioned all the wonderful initiatives of people to take care of others at the beginning of the coronapandemic, often to prevent loneliness, but also to help in all kinds of other ways, for example to encourage older people and care workers. Take care of each other, that's what it's called. But after a year and a half, there is not much left of this kind of initiative and understanding for each other. It's not easy, either. For over a year and a half our lives have been disrupted by corona. But we Dutch people care about each other and we help each other. Last but not least, let us continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u250	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u251	It says here two minutes. I don't think so. I gave up four, and I think I'm gonna get over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u252	Let's take a look: Mrs. Van der Plas had given up for four minutes. I think he's knocking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u253	Yeah, now he's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u254	Go ahead. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u255	Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands and the two gentlemen in the gallery. At Mrs Agema's request earlier today, I also share my personal experience with the concern. Luckily, I don't remember the day I was sick, not even a brat. Knock it off, but I've been perfectly healthy for years. Unfortunately, that doesn't apply to other people in my family. My husband died of pancreatic cancer two years ago after a hellish bed, which lasted only nine weeks. My brother died on 24 November last year at the age of only 54 of metastatic bowel cancer. My best friend died in March 2020 from the consequences of covid. Up close I have seen in a short time how fantastic the care workers in the Netherlands are. During my husband's illness, there was also a shortage of beds. The care staff worked double shifts, and they never forgot. Not only did they do their regular work, they also made time for a chat, an arm around my shoulder or a pet over my husband's knee. Take the home care workers, mostly girls of just 20 years old, who treated us all so lovingly in situations that have undoubtedly impressed them. Thank you for that. Thank you to those people and to all the people in the care. You make the difference in the darkest period of people's lives. Mr. Chairman. While the care workers put people at the heart of their daily work, people are no longer central to care themselves. The system and the rules are central. People in care are crying out for help. There's a heart attack. Child care is untenable. The ggz can't take it anymore. The demand for mental health care is increasing especially among young people. There is an increase of 15% compared to before the corona period. The nursing homes are overflowing and the general practitioners are holding hands in their hair. They all die in protocols and reports. The staff no longer cares and walks away, increasing the workload. What is the Minister going to do about this in concrete terms? What message does the minister have for the people in the care? How is this budget going to solve these problems? Put man back in the center. Go delete the rules. Go for a radical renewal of care. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Then listen to the professionals. We take care seriously. Do we take their concerns seriously? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting tons of e-mails about harrowing situations in youth care. Not only are we champion removals, we are also unable to offer the right treatment. We don't talk to young people, we talk to them. How is the minister gonna make sure we're not more champions of removals but champions of support for families with problems? Why don't we find a solution for children who have to leave home, for example, with relatives? I get countless e-mails from family members who are out of play but would like to help. Coming back to the hospitals. For years, savings have been made. The ic-capacity has been drastically reduced. However, the Minister does not attach enough vaccine to all problems to covid. It is a mistake how the Minister of Health splits society rather than solving the specific problems in the care sector. In 2016, security services warned of a bed shortage on the ICUs in a pandemic. It wasn't done much. Covid now calls a pandemic of the unvaccinated I find shameless. A real approach to getting fewer patients in hospitals has been going on for a long time. We need to work towards a resilient and vital population and focus on healthy lifestyles, healthy food, sufficient movement, treatment and early detection. Why doesn't the Minister put a lot more effort into this? Dutch farmers, growers, growers and fishermen provide healthy food. The Minister should actively involve them in the Prevention Agreement. Is the Minister willing to do that? And is the Minister also willing to look, together with the Ministries of Education and Agriculture, at how food education can be structuralally part of the lessons in schools, starting with Group 1? That includes cooking lessons, so that children not only learn what healthy and fresh products are, but they also work with fresh products and eat fresh products. We think kids know that, but yesterday I went to work at a daycare center in Deventer. The director of the umbrella organisation told me that there are children in the big city who have never seen a root. They've never seen a carrot! How is that possible? I've seen them, by the way, a lot. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u256	Shall I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u257	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u258	Yeah, how do I get out of here? Normally you are talking about food production, but now you are talking about food education. I understand food production, because many people here think that food production goes on and is only for abroad. But you're talking about education in conjunction with care. Do children learn there that milk doesn't come from the factory and that a slice of ham isn't square? What exactly can food education do for food health and how will you measure that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u259	Our philosophy is that if you teach your children very early what fresh food is, for example in primary school, there has recently been a very nice motion about vegetable gardening in primary schools, they learn to work and cook with fresh food. That's what they bring home, so they also influence their parents' behavior. If children are brought up with this early, it will work in their own consumption patterns when they are older. Then they don't throw away their bread and drive to the Mac as soon as possible. Then they're familiar with it. Unknown makes unloved. You're talking about measuring it, but I think we should start with it first. There are many countries that already have food education at school, and I think it is time here too. We are thrown to death with all kinds of advertising for unhealthy products, but with fresh products you can start very early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u260	Maybe for the record: do you mean school gardens, a goat in the classroom and stuff like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u261	I don't think Mrs Van Esch would let a goat in the classroom. Food education is learning about food and telling the honest story about food. But it is also important that you indicate that food is not self-evident, that that package of milk does not come from the factory but that it requires a cow and a farmer. That includes farm education. It's in the whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u262	Where were you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u263	I'm afraid to say that, because then it starts again. I beg your pardon? The carrots, yeah. I'm gonna get on with that now. In addition to fewer rules and prevention, it is very important to invest in training staff. Take maternity care, for example. We need 1,350 new people every year, but we only train 800. It takes an integral plan to attract and retain staff, and that can't wait to be formed once. Can the Minister take this up as a matter of urgency? And could there perhaps be subsidies for training recognised by the industry to provide maternity care? Finally, Mr President. It is time for the Minister to identify and tackle the real problems. I refer to a structural increase in the budgets for care in the broadest sense of the word. I refer to tackling, above all, the regulatory burden and listening to the people in the workplace, so that, as Mrs Agema said earlier, we, and later our children, can still have care of those fantastic people who work in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u264	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Late at night and still a bit strange to discuss what we have to discuss here today - the 2022 budget with a outgoing cabinet. Of course, we prefer to do so with a missionary cabinet, a cabinet that can fightfully solve the various health crises. 'Cause there are, like, a lot of them. The biggest crisis has been mentioned very often today: the shortage of labour. The importance of care professionals has been widely expressed in recent years, but care workers are forced to run out of the profession. Overworked, underrated and frustrated that it makes it so difficult for them to practice that beautiful profession. If you know the CliniClowns deserve more than the responsible hands on the bed, you're actually gonna laugh. I'm not saying that to the detriment of the CliniClowns. Their work is also invaluable. A lot has been shared today about personal experiences in healthcare. I wasn't going to, but I've been able to experience for myself how important it is that the CliniClowns are there. Anyway, the fact that there is this discrepancy says a lot about how we fail to appreciate the responsible hands on the bed in the same way. Mr. Chairman. However, the budget speaks of the importance of personal contact with the client or patient. How does that relate to the workload in the care sector? In the budget, the cabinet says that it has used an "acceptable taxability of care as a policy priority." I think you can discuss it for a long time whether this has been done in the fight against corona, but it is clear that after a year and a half we can conclude that the standards applied by the cabinet are not in line with reality. For how acceptable was the way we have dealt with our care and care staff in the last year and a half? We've exhausted them. And extra money, which has been named before, isn't gonna fix this. There are structural problems in care caused by years of neoliberal rule prior to the pandemic. That degradation has become all the more apparent because of the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. So I do not have a vision, both in the corona policy and throughout the healthcare sector. A vision that can ensure that we structurally solve the investment in ic capacity, reduce the workload and shortage of care personnel and build in space for the required space for the human dimension. That we make oral care, contraception, birth care and other basic care available to anyone who needs it. In the meantime, resources are being made available to investigate COOVID-19 and I wonder what urgency the Minister places in that investigation and in the universal recognition of long covid and its consequences. What's the status of the Long Covid investigation? When can the thousands of people who are currently in uncertainty because of the lack of government protection due to the pandemic count on that recognition? Following KPMG's report, in which the government is held liable for serious shortcomings in the corona policy, will the government also investigate the role played by the government in the situation surrounding long covid? The corona crisis is not the only crisis in our health care. It was very difficult to decide which crises would be included in my contribution today. Then let me take the ggz. The budget talks about reducing waiting lists within the ggz. How will the healthcare performance model contribute to this? Has the additional administrative burden involved in implementing such a model been taken into account? I am thinking here of the design of systems, training and the training of employees. What guarantees are there that this model is not, as we often hear it, especially in conjunction with the word 'performance', a sneaking austerity measure? Mr. Chairman. Then there is youth care, which is not clearly functioning. Youth care is under such pressure that it is at the expense of providing good assistance to young people. We have heard a lot about this today. There are many figures on the rising problems within this sector. Even in certain cases, it leads to excrement, such as locking young people in solitary cells. In the last week, this was highlighted, when the CBS announced that from 2015 to 2020 1,115 children were not only victims of the supplement scandal, but were also placed out of the house. How many children are we talking about when we talk about the period 2005 to 2015? How many houses have been placed without the judge's intervention? I keep repeating it, but how does this outgoing cabinet in its start-up ever plan to make things right with these victims? Youth care also suffers from high financial deficits, staff shortages, high workload and red tape. It was only after municipalities won the arbitration case against the government that the government spent EUR 1.3 billion extra on incidental funds, but without noticing the money. BET1 doesn't think that's a good idea. In this way, the fear of youth care that the extra resources will not be spent on the care of young people has proved justified, because by now we know that municipalities will spend part of the extra resources to close gaps in the budget that have arisen in recent years precisely because of the high costs of youth care. The result is direct, because as we sit here and debate this issue, the negotiations between employers and trade unions broke down this evening. The demands of the unions were real, but employers fear bankruptcy if they take up the wage requirement because they are not sure that the municipalities will actually spend this money on youth care. That is why we will be tabling a motion to accept this incidental money. Meanwhile, the number of young people in need of care continues to increase. Children in vulnerable situations should increasingly and longer wait for the right help. A new cabinet must decide on structural money and adjustments to the system. And in anticipation of that, the Ministry is now talking to various parties to bring about a reform of youth care. But is it enough to have an occasional chat about this? In the reforms of youth care, BET1 requires a formal position for professionals, trade unions and experience experts. And then, Mr President, let's talk about gender care. Although the cabinet set the target in 2018 that waiting times in the transgender care should be reduced by 50%, the waiting lists increased by 50%. Nevertheless, the outgoing cabinet is able to make only EUR 2.5 million available for this gender care. How? A breakthrough is needed with drastic measures that improve the quality of transgender care, reduce waiting times and reduce healthcare costs. For example, move hormone treatments to primary care, so that general practitioners can also provide gender care. Invest in peripheral hospitals and independent treatment clinics to facilitate decentralisation. Reduce the shortage of psychological care providers who specialise in diagnosing gender inconsistencies. Please coordinate the waiting lists with an independent organisation so that we can expect reliable figures on waiting times. Invest in Ok capacity for high-complex gender care in academic hospitals and in setting up low- and medium-complex gender care in non-academic hospitals. It is extremely important that many of the solutions to problems discussed here in the Chamber, including this problem, are long overdue. They're just from civil society. In this case, these are plans supported by, for example, the AUMC. For example, we should invest in a laboratory where a system of triage and concise indication can be investigated and tried out. Because an acceleration at the front of the care path will greatly contribute to shortening the current waiting lists. They continue to grow and all this is at the expense of the well-being of transgender people in the Netherlands, with all the heartbreaking consequences of that. I recently spoke to a mother who gave me a cry of hearts about her adolescent child, a child who is already faced with the long waiting and the pain that it causes at such a young age. I will table an amendment and a motion on behalf of BET1 to initiate the necessary measures. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that colleagues have today appointed such a wide range of topics. It's tempting to try to match that. I would like to thank those Members who have drawn attention, for example, to matters that I have not come to today. Let me conclude by saying that I am very curious whether Minister De Jonge has already recovered 5.1 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u266	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm the last speaker, so I'm grateful everyone stayed put. Let me start by making a big compliment to Dutch health care. We are lucky to live in a country with highly qualified doctors, nurses and caregivers who are doing everything they can to give us the best care available. I can do that. Of course, we all have personal experiences that prove that. So the question is, where does it go wrong? Colleague Van der Plas has just mentioned this as a major health attack. So, yeah, where does it go wrong? The answer is simple. I believe it's because there's no doctor or nurse in this cabinet. Our hard-working healthcare professionals are therefore controlled by people without any relevant background in care. That's how Secretary of State Blokhuis studied history. Of course, that's very good. He has also made a meritorious career in politics. Minister De Jonge has done an education as a teacher in primary education and after that he has also made a wonderful career in politics. The lack of background manifests itself in different areas, but the most striking area is, of course, the debacle of the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the corona measures. Almost without exception, there was no scientific basis for the illogical and disproportionate measures. All for a virus that didn't turn out to be worse than a heavy flu! The one-and-a-half meter rule was introduced against the WHO's advice, which advised only 1 meter. That's what put our entire catering business on the bottle. Hoods did not work according to Minister De Jonge and yet a humiliating oral cap was introduced. The curfew did not affect the spread of corona in any country, but we all had to stay in the evening at 9 p.m. as small children. The most harmful measure was the lockdown. Although the WHO advised not to set lockdowns, because the damage is greater than the proceeds, this cabinet set a hard lockdown. Shops closed. The hospitality company closed down. Festivals were banned. Gyms closed down. Companies closed down. Schools and universities closed down. It was absolute hell for months. But what's even worse is that regular care was scaled down, so people with cancer or heart problems couldn't be diagnosed and helped anymore. This cabinet itself calculated that a lockdown would yield 100,000 healthy years of life, but would cost 620,000 healthy years of life. A shocking number of 520,000 years of life was deliberately destroyed by this cabinet! Mr President, this is no longer a matter of stupidity or incompetence. This is really criminal. The damage this cabinet has done is unimaginable. It is a matter of time before these ministers will have to answer to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I have tabled a motion for this on several occasions, and I will do so again. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the debacle of corona and the expenses at the Department of VWS. EUR 1.1 billion was spent on a test society, which Minister De Jonge himself said had no idea of the costs and benefits. One billion sickening mouth caps were ordered, with 30 million profits being made by Sywert van Lienden's four-day old company. It is very good that this is now before the courts, but I hope that the arrows are not only directed at Sywert van Lienden. For how the hell is it possible that all the procedures were put aside in the Ministry to make this corruption possible? Can Minister De Jonge state what his role and his responsibility have been in this matter? And for 5.1 billion euros, Minister De Jonge didn't have receipts. That has just been said by Mr Simons. He has no idea what happened to that money. I'd like to hear what else has been found. To the extent of disaster, test capacity was purchased for €500,000 per day, without any use being made of it. This is financial malpractice of epic proportions, thanks to the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union who overlook all of this. Mr. Chairman. Then there's something weird about the mortality rate. In 2021, total mortality per week from Week 20 is higher than in 2020. I find this difficult to explain, especially since 2020 was the corona year and no one was vaccinated yet. So now the mortality rate per week is higher than it was then. It may be that we are dealing with a higher mortality because cancer patients who have not been diagnosed or treated because of the fact that corona patients were of course given priority are now dying. It's possible. That's an explanation. It could also be an effect of large-scale vaccination of the population causing vaccination mortality, as is usually the case with flu shots. Then you'll see a little spike. I don't know what the correct explanation is, but the fact that mortality is significantly higher is a fact. Can the Minister explain why the death rate in 2021 is higher than in 2020? Which age groups are most affected? Shouldn't we actually see under-mortality after the corona year with excess mortality? And isn't the Minister concerned about the side effects of the different vaccines? How many cases of myocardiitis have been counted? How many more miscarriages are taking place now compared to the pre-vaccination period? Why has the Moderna vaccine been stopped acutely in Norway, Sweden and Finland? Mr. Chairman. We read in the newspapers that the hospitals are full of unvaccinated people. Can the Minister state whether this is true and what the exact average ratio is? From the field, from the hospitals, we're getting very different proportions reported. How many days do you need to be vaccinated before you are registered as a vaccinated patient? Or isn't it asked at all? Why is this affair so weird? Why are these messages so contradictory? I ask this because it is difficult to explain that at a vaccination rate of 87%, where young people are mostly unvaccinated, care would be flooded with unvaccinated people. I would also like a statement from the Minister that there has been a huge shortage of staff in the care sector. In the past year 75 ic nurses have left and not one has come back for it. That's a little bizarre, isn't it? That could have been different in a year and a half. Mr. Chairman. Then this year's biggest farce: the coronapas. The interest of the Netherlands is against all corona measures and thus against the coronapas. But for the occasion, let us discuss the lack of logic. Paying money for thousands of boas to maintain this medical apartheid, but not spending that money on scaling up the ic's is completely illogical. If the criterion is the pressure on the ic's, why hasn't the number of ic-beds been scaled up over the last year and a half? People who haven't been vaccinated can be tested. That test will be valid for 24 hours. Can the Minister explain why only 24 hours were chosen, while incubation time is much longer? Couldn't this time just be longer? Then a vaccinated person can be highly contagious, with a green check mark sitting in a restaurant and infecting everyone there. Does the Minister think this makes sense? Especially since the mRNA vaccines appear to be less effective over time, the green tick of vaccinees is becoming more and more debatable. Then you still have the people with a recovery certificate that expires after 180 days, while it is now known that the natural immunity after going through corona is up to seven times higher than with vaccination and remains active for much longer. So why 180 days? On 16 September, my motion was adopted by 143 votes in favour. What did the Minister do with this? When will this deadline be extended to, for example, two years, or rather: indefinitely, as with vaccination? So much for the Dutch coronadebacle. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Indian and Moluccan issues. That's from my old wallet of war victims. It's under the Secretary of State. All kinds of parties here in the Chamber are concerned about Afghans, Turks, Moroccans, Eritreans and so on. But the Indian and Moluccan Dutch fought for us. We owe these people a debt of honor. It hasn't been redeemed yet. The Secretary of State knows the files. I would therefore like to ask him whether there is still anything possible to settle this debt of honour in a decent manner. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u268	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-26-tweedekamer-25.u269	The debate will be continued on Thursday. Then we'll start with the first term of office. The second deadline is then followed. I thank the directors, the MPs and the viewers at home.
