ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the report that the court reaffirms that Deliveroo deliverers are mere employees. I would like to extend a warm welcome to the members of the House, to the people in the public gallery and to the viewers at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning I spoke with some of the members of this house with the people who live in uncertainty every day because they have an insecure contract, because they have to work as bogus self-employed and about what that does to them, namely that you don't know if you have enough income to make the end of the month and pay your rent. We do different things for them, but we should do much more in legislation but also in enforcement. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several platform companies were convicted of false self-employment;]] [[Considering that in 2021 the Tax Administration had an additional budget to address bogus self-employment;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate additional search budget in 2022 to maintain the approach to false self-employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-1077]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u3	If you look at how many companies have been dealt with in recent years or have been given a clue about malice, then I come to one. So my question to the Secretary of State for Finance in particular is how it can be done. Are there any obstacles that the IRS can't go through? Because a number of years ago, in this Chamber, among other things, through a round table with different platform companies, we encouraged the cabinet to maintain better and firmer until newzzp legislation is in place. Unfortunately, there is still no such legislation, but we have strengthened the malice of companies. One clue. Well, you've had to deal with some of the corona time. I imagine it would be difficult to go somewhere as a tax authority. But before and now we see that very few companies are really being called upon, which the judge now says: Deliveroo, these are people who should simply be seen as employees and should also be treated in this way. So we have the crazy situation that there is a political standstill, that we have given the Tax Administration extra enforcement capacity and that one company has been designated as malicious. I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is important that we are here together at World Day of Decent Work and that we have this two-minute debate today. It's been a difficult time with corona. I've read all the progress reports onzzp in the last few weeks. And we had a lot of plans and what little has come of them! That's too bad. Partly that's not our fault, and I also understand that the Secretary of State for Finance had a hard time with corona. But things are getting better and we can get back to work, so that's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the pilot with the web module and the broad social dialogue show that there is a great need for security;]] [[noting that the sector-specific approach in the Tax Administration has recently been re-launched;]] [[noting that the pilot with the web module showed that, for example, in health care, the "indication of employment" is relatively often applicable;]] [[calls on the government to start deploying the web module in one sector, e.g. healthcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-1078]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u6	I'm gonna use the foot pedal for the first time now, yeah, I think it does. Mrs Maatoug already refers to the broad social dialogue in one of her considerations. Indeed, Minister Koolmees indicated that he would also like to discuss the framework with these different sectors. Is it not wise, then, before we adopt such a motion as Mrs Maatoug proposes, to ask first what exactly is the outcome of the broad public debate, for example in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u7	We're going back in time to the sixth progress letter. That's where the conversations were. We had two sectors there that we started working on. We very much like to hear from the Minister and also read in the letter what that progress is. I think we should decide with each other that we're gonna apply it, how we're gonna do it, what the order is, and how we're gonna roll it out. We've actually had a very nice experiment phase, including lessons. I think we can get those lessons to work by applying them. Then it helps to decide that we're going to do it in that sector. That gives us peace, and that is what the sector is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u8	On the contrary, I believe that it will give rise to uncertainty within the sector until we have a clear picture of the frameworks which Mrs Maatoug herself refers to. I think that brings peace to me. It would be a shame if we started spreading uncertainty again, so I don't know if I think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u9	I leave that judgment to Mrs Tielen. I think we can go forever in a circle. We have an instrument. We tested it. We've got pilots running. It is I, GroenLinks, who fully agrees that these talks should take place. But what is needed on this file is for us to apply the laws like those. That means we're gonna take steps. We're not gonna create that peace of mind if we keep waiting. What I do share with Mrs Tielen is what applying in the sector means. That means staying in conversation, watching you do that and starting with the decision to roll out. This should not happen in 100 sectors at the same time. We're choosing one that we've actually been doing very well for corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Tielen of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u11	The labour market in healthcare is currently being discussed. In my view, that is the sector we should not be burning up, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. We always think about the Tax Administration when it comes to enforcing false self-employment, but I would also like to pay more attention to the SZW inspection for that. Mr. Van Dijk has already asked about this maliciousness with regard to the Tax Administration. That's what I'm looking forward to. Can the Secretary of State give coloring about the inspections around the platform work and bogus self-employment? I'll wait and see. To put it in good Dutch, the core business of the Inspection SZW is actually trying to detect and eliminate unfair work. So I actually think their role should be a little bigger. Then I read in the annual plan 2021 of the inspection, and in the letter, and in the Minister's replies that the inspection and the Tax Administration together develop a method to detect and address clients of bogus self-employed people. That all sounds nice. I will then put some additional questions to you in writing and then there will be no answer. So my question to these two State Secretarys is to give some explanation as to how far we are going with this cooperation between the Tax Administration and inspection and whether there is any need for review frameworks, or whether what lies ahead is sufficient, whether they are working with them and what effect that will have. I would therefore like to have a more comprehensive response to that. I think it should be a letter, but if you can do it now in a few minutes, it's fine. I really miss some answers to my questions in the written consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u12	I see a question on this question from Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u13	Good questions, so I'm also curious about the answer. In the end, of course, the wish is that we have and-and in that cooperation. Because both on the fiscal side and on the labour law side we want to act or we want the legislation to be enforced. Does Mrs. Tielen share that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u14	I certainly share that, but my main concern is always to... Mr. Van Dijk also referred to this after this morning's conversations, where we both were. I am particularly concerned about the kind of people who do not opt for independence at all, who are not at all able to determine their rates, their working hours and their clients. I think that's bogus self-employment. I think we should protect those people. I think the inspection can simply take on a major role there. I certainly do not think that the tax issue is irrelevant, but most of the stomach pains are mainly caused by this group. That is where the inspection has a role, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u15	Then I'm gonna ask you one more time. In fact, we have been creating uncertainty about this dossier for years. There's a law. There is just one, but we are not maintaining it for all kinds of reasons; that is not for this two-minute debate. However, Mrs Tielen of the VVD shares with me that in the end the solution will be that we both have the tax legislation that exists, where there is malice... It should not be a move from one to another, but it should be en-and-and-a.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u16	Yes. That is why I am asking for cooperation in this area. I actually believe that the two inspection services can complement each other. I do think that we really have something to do about legislation. We just had an interrupting debate, when Mrs Maatoug was standing here, about peace and insecurity. I do not believe that we now have enough tools that are clear enough in the field of taxation. It has to be, so that's definitely an assignment to ourselves in the coming period, but I really get the biggest abdominal pain from the group that doesn't choose to be independent at all but is pushed into it. Good clientship is something we need to run a little harder for together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u17	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I'll take a look at the directors and see if they'll be able to answer right away. Yes, that's the case. Who can I give the floor to first? The motions are on their way. A single question has also been asked. If the motions are there, we're gonna get started right away. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u18	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Chamber, following this written consultation. Platform work is a flag, so we know, which covers quite a diverse load. There are different forms of platform work. It goes without saying that people working on a platform are also very diverse and have different preferences, including with regard to the balance between flexibility and security. That is a discussion that we know well in this Chamber. The discussion or control in such a platform, even if it is determined by an algorithm for example, is clearly now classified as authority. We are seeing enormous diversity in platform work, but at the same time it is important that we clarify this. We have seen recently in the statements about Deliveroo, but also about Uber and Helpling, that the discussion about the exercise of authority is certainly moving towards something. The question is what this means in the immediate future for enforcement. I therefore understand very well the questions raised by the Chamber. Having said that, my colleague from the Finance Committee will be coming back to the motion on item No. 1077. The motion in part No. 1078 belongs to the member Maatoug. I recognise the need for clarity and certainty, as well as the picture outlined in the motion of the results of the pilot with the web module, including the care sector. I would like to say, however, that it is perhaps something other than the motion that suggests that the web module will never be able to give certainty about the existence of a possible employment, but at most about whether it is possible to work outside the employment relationship. You know the web module is still under development. He is focused on that clarity, but not on providing certainty about the possibility of working out of employment. Starting with the use of the web module for one sector is therefore not possible. But I read the motion in such a way that the question is whether such a commitment could not be possible in the near future. In that reading, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. I'll add something to that. Officially, it is currently being identified whether and, if so, how further development of the web module is possible. There is also a political debate on this, as you know. In order to make decision-making possible by a subsequent cabinet, we will have to wait for that official reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u19	I would like to look at Mrs Maatoug's interpretation of this motion by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u20	I certainly can. If it is an encouragement to further tackle the work that is being done well and also to explore the role of the web module in a further sectoral approach, for example in agreements at collective bargaining tables with different partners, then I welcome that. I accept this lecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u21	That's good. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Tielen's question. I'm looking for what exactly is meant by this motion. Perhaps Mrs Tielen will be able to clarify this later. Monitoring and enforcement in platform work is already divided. The supervision of labour legislation is carried out by the SZW Inspection. Tax supervision and the collection of social security contributions are carried out by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u22	A little correction. It's a question, not a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u23	One question, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u24	It could have been a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u25	It could have been a motion, yes. But I would like to give Mrs Tielen a good answer. The labour inspectors of the inspection cannot control tax laws and tax inspectors cannot control and enforce SZW labour laws. This also depends on competences, experience, training, you name it. At the same time, this cooperation is therefore of particular importance. Can you do better? Can you do something extra? We are already making an extra effort, also within the framework of the inspection's means of dealing with bogus structures, collective agreements and fraud. In the period 2019-2022 130 FTE are intended for this purpose. We will continue this commitment until 2023. So we're going through with this expansion. Support for this cooperation is important. The inspection should be on her side and the IRS on his side. Not all tasks can be automatically transferred. I think the picture of the tasks is clear. There is still a battle to be won when it comes to cooperation. That's what we're investing in right now, and we're going to do it until 2023. I hope that will clarify that for Mrs Tielen. If not, it should indicate more clearly what tasks it is thinking of. That might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u26	Mrs. Tielen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u27	I also asked whether the current review frameworks are sufficient. I think the Secretary of State for Taxation will say something about that in a moment from the Tax Office. Is it enough or not? What else is needed? I'd like to get a few handles for that. Otherwise, it's nice to work together, but it doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u28	Okay. Then I suggest we wait for the answer from the Secretary of State for Finance. If that is not satisfactory, we can always put it together in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u29	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. We clean for a short time and then I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Both Mrs Tielen and Mr Van Dijk are asking about enforcement. I'll take it like this. How should we look at it in the future? It is clear that few indications have been imposed in the past period. In the reporting period, no maliciousness has been identified at all. There are also no specific criteria for platform work. It is true, as my colleague has just said, that more and more case law is emerging which makes the criteria of the Tax Administration easier to apply if we are to maintain. What are these criteria? There must be an employment relationship, it must clearly be false self-employment and it must also be deliberate. Then why has so little been done in the past period? Mr Van Dijk himself said it has to do with corona. It also has to do, as I said, with the difficult burden of proof, but we hope that case law will develop. There is also a poor information position. What does that mean for the future and what, as Mrs Tielen also said earlier, is needed in order to be able to maintain? I'm just saying again that I still think that this web module should play a big role. In any case, that web module can give a conclusion on the negative side: is it or is it not going on? He can help with that question. Then, as far as I am concerned, a next cabinet could decide to lift the moratorium. Mrs Maatoug argued to take another step in this direction. She said start in one sector. You can all think about that. I think that's where we're moving. At some point, of course, it becomes a bit posh to maintain a moratorium forever. I would also like to say quite frankly that underneath this, I think it was also Mrs Maatoug who said structural factors, tax differences and so on, which make this so attractive. If you really want to do something about it, you're gonna have to take it away. That's what I wanted to say to the questions. That brings me to the motion on part No. 1077 by Mr Van Dijk. I'd like to give him a room for judgment. Around 5 million is needed to continue monitoring in this way in 2022. I'll do my utmost to scrape that together. So you have my best will. That's why you're judging Room. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u31	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the two-minute debate on the Deliveroo delivery agencies. I assume there will be more discussion. I really want to end this now, because we also have another debate. Mrs. Tielen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u32	I get that. I don't like whining at all, but it's still a question of whether the answer is enough. Actually, I don't think it's enough. I would like to hear more about the cooperation between the Tax Administration and the inspection of additional review frameworks. It's a subject that we all care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u33	I understand that, but it's a two-minute debate. That must be short and powerful. I am assuming that it will be possible to come back to it in a committee debate or otherwise. Or is the Secretary of State able to respond very briefly and forcefully? Then I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u34	I thought of the following short and powerful answer: yes. We write a letter like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u35	That's very short and powerful. I'm looking at Mrs Tielen to see if that's enough. That's the case. This brings us to the end of this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-13.u36	I'll suspend the meeting for a single moment and then we'll proceed to the General Financial Reviews.
