ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its input. There has been an extremely serious review of an important legislative amendment. We are having an intrusive debate on this today. I'm doing the kick-off on behalf of the cabinet. We are talking about changing the laws of forced care with the aim of simplifying its feasibility. No more and no less. I will deal specifically with the compulsory ggz Act. The Minister for Medical Care and Sports addresses the Health and Force Act. We also talk about issues that affect both laws. I would now like to say who will be responsible for which part, so that, hopefully, it will be clear in the event of interruptions. In addition to the questions about the Health and Force Act, Minister Van Ark will also address the treatment of similar diseases and crisis care. I can simply say that I do everything else, but I will also say what that is. Those are the blocks of my text, Mr President. Firstly, this is a general introduction: why are we doing this? Then the content of the bill will be discussed, as far as the law affects mandatory ggz. Then there's the coincidence with the Forensic Care Act, so it's criminal law. Then there's the Act of Participation. So that's the third block of substance. The fourth is monitoring and law evaluation. The fifth part deals with other questions. Mr. Chairman. Back to the law mandatory ggz. This law makes it possible to impose compulsory care on people with mental illness who are serious harm to themselves or to others. That's common knowledge. But it is important to note that this Wvggz is a treatment law. This is therefore wider than the old BOPZ Law, in which both these laws were laid down. That was a law that allowed only clinical assistance, forced assistance under a clinical regime. This is a treatment law, which also allows treatment in the home situation. Of course, we want to prevent the imposition of forced care as much as possible. It is far-reaching for the person concerned and you are violating one's fundamental rights. Mrs Van den Hil, whom I would like to congratulate on her maiden speech, has put that very pregnant in the picture, I think. You don't just violate a person's fundamental rights. There's really a lot to be done, if you want to make that choice. But as much as we want to avoid that, sometimes it is necessary. Then it is important that we go through a careful process and ensure legal protection. I would like to make a very clear statement under the heading of legal protection. This is also emphasised in all discussions with the relevant parties, the field parties, as we call them. It is about the legal protection of people in an extremely vulnerable position, at an extremely vulnerable time. After a long run, which has also been discussed extensively with your Chamber, the compulsory ggz Act entered into force on 1 January last year. All the spokesmen have recalled that. Chain parties that have a role in implementing the law together have prepared themselves well for that implementation. They are supported by the chain programme Act mandatory ggz. As a result, crisis measures and healthcare authorisations could be imposed from 1 January 2020. I would like to emphasise that implementation is ongoing and that parties work well together. At the same time, the same parties are calling for an improvement in the enforcement of the law. Caregivers indicate that they spend a relatively large amount of time on administration and going through all process steps, at the expense of the time they have left for contact with the patient. It also appears, when talking about the patient's interests, that certain articles of law designed to ensure the patient's legal protection are different in practice and that the treatment relationship between the health care professional and the person concerned can unnecessarily be put under pressure. I think it is very important that a law is properly enforced. I think everyone thinks so. In practice, a law must be enforceable. This is why, before the entry into force of the law, I promised the Chamber on 19 November 2020 not to wait for the evaluation, which in itself starts very early, if there are any problems in the implementation that we can do anything about. This has led to a first emergency repair law. It was accepted by hammer piece here last year and it's already in the Official Journal. It entered into force on 29 October last year. The second line has more weight; not for nothing has the Court also brought forward this proposal for a repair law, the second bill. I would like to emphasise that very strongly, in close consultation with the sector, this has been achieved with all stakeholders from the field. The repair law contains changes that simplify the implementation of the law and technical omissions are also restored. As a starting point, I have taken the view that the amendments must be widely supported by all the parties involved, with a clear line under "all." There have been many conversations, and they are still running, with MIND and the PVP from the patient side, the demand side, and with the supply side, the Dutch ggz, the dome organization of the psychiatrists, the NVvP, and the V&VN for the nurses. We have intensive discussions with all these organisations about the objectives of the law and its implementation in practice. I appreciate their involvement and the open conversation we have and continue to have about this. Because if you stand with your backs to each other, you say it's not feasible and you stand up for the importance of the group you represent, then you're not gonna realize the improvements we want. It is precisely by keeping the conversation open that I can really say that this is happening that we will continue to keep those improvements in mind. Everyone does this from their own perspective, of course, and with respect for each other's views. Is there broad support for the bill here today for the field parties? I am referring in particular to the compulsory ggz Act, because I am defending that part. The Minister is about to deal with the Health and Force Act. Is there broad support for that? I can say yes with a big exclamation point. The parties therefore like to see, this week they explicitly write in a letter week to the Chamber and to the Ministry, that this law will enter into force as soon as possible in order to introduce relaxations. Are all parties' desires to amend the mandatory ggz Act included in the present bill? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The wishes on which the views of the parties concerned differ are not rejected. As far as I'm concerned, they're going to be dealt with in the legal review. That evaluation should give an objective picture of what is and is not going well in the law. At the end of this year, the first part of the evaluation will follow and the full report will follow in the middle of next year. I'll go into it later. On the basis of the results of the legislative review, it will be examined, in consultation with the parties concerned, whether and what legislative adjustment is still necessary. Then the content will first be looked at. The supporting surface is less heavy than it is now. Now, support is really leading. Everyone has to agree on the demand side and the supply side, so patients, clients, aid workers and the judiciary. Finally, I think it is important to keep mentioning that we cannot improve the implementation of the law only by amending the law, as we are doing now. Parties can do a lot of things themselves. I'll mention two things. I think it is important for parties in the chain programme to work together on the simplification and reduction of information products in the mandatory ggz Act and to examine together whether the information exchange in the chain can be further developed. So information products/working arrangements and information exchange: they work hard on those two things. To make those first, information products, a little bit of a face, more concrete. Until recently, super wrapped first letters from the physician-director went to the person concerned, read: the client, patient. That letter contained too much information at once. This has been reduced to the formal requirements, namely that the person concerned should be able to see on paper what is happening. A second example. In the letters there was always talk of "the person concerned." You'll be in psychic distress and read "involved." That's about you. Now "involved" is replaced very simply by the name of the person concerned. In the first letter it was standard that a person can make a plan of action to avoid being forced into care. That could work like a red rag on a bull. That explicit gesture is taken out of the letter. This is now mainly communicated orally with the person concerned. All examples which, as far as I am concerned, can help to make things smoother in their implementation. I want to go to the next block, but I think I'm facing a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the explanation. He refers to the fact that there has been a look at where there is support in the field to make the current changes. I wonder why, as a Chamber, we receive a letter from more than ten organizations in the field. That seems to me to be a huge support. They clearly indicate that there are practical things that have not been resolved. I would like to have some clarification as to why this has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	What these organisations are particularly interested in are changes proposed in the Health and Force Act. I think Mrs Van den Berg should ask Mr Van Ark that question. Of the amendments we propose to the mandatory ggz Act, the relevant field parties explicitly indicate that they agree and that they want to move forward quickly. This is also explicitly stated in the two letters sent to the Chamber this week. Those are indeed not the ten Mrs van den Berg calls. This is about the mandatory ggz Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	I'll be confused for a second. I had understood that the secretary of state generally did the overarching story and would then focus on the mandatory ggz Act. Am I wrong? Now I'm being referred to the Minister for my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	To prevent us from talking past each other: I indicated in my general introduction that as far as the law on mandatory ggz is concerned, the field parties indicate by letter: please, proceed quickly. It may well be that there are still problems in practice. In fact, they are mentioned in the letters. But they see especially on the Law care and coercion. I'm not here to explain that part of the law. Mrs Van den Berg really has to be with Mrs Van Ark. He'll go into that, too. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the content of the amendments which are mainly seen in the mandatory ggz Act. I will answer the questions that have been asked about this. Mrs Agema asks if I can indicate by change whether it is in the interests of the patient or others. In general terms, let me point out that we are making this repair proposal with the support of both healthcare providers and patients, as they have indicated in their joint letter. The points that simplify implementation were also critical of Mrs Agema's criticism of the fact that technical changes are okay, but that simplifications on the content are still going to contribute to more time for good care, which makes them in the best interests of the patient. This is true, I think, of all the substantive changes. I will be passing them by shortly, but for each of these changes: if they lead to a simplification in practice and there is support for the people who have to do it, such as the medical director, the caretaker and people from the judiciary, with which more time can be spent on care, then that is of course also good for the patients, because there is simply more time for care, macro-seen and in some cases also micro-seen. Mr. Chairman. The first proposal, which I will address in response to Mrs Agema's question, is the extension of the deadline for the examination of experts, as this is usually done at the request of and in the interest of the person concerned. That is therefore directly in the interest of the person concerned. Secondly, the four-week period for the subsequent authorisation of care is in both interest. It gives the director of medicine the opportunity to continue to use this legal term, although Mrs Westerveld has tabled an amendment for another term'more time' and for the person concerned the preparation comes at a later time and not after the treatment has just begun. So it's in both interests. Third example: extension of the time limit for temporary compulsory care in emergency situations. This is mainly intended to avoid unnecessary modification procedures. So this is also a feces of caregivers, but also of caregivers. The expiry of the second medical certificate has been in the interest of the person concerned, and an amendment has been tabled to this effect, which I will go into as soon as possible, because the forced care can be terminated as soon as possible. A secondary objective of this law is as short as possible forced care, even more so: no forced care. Another example: the basis for delivery to the IGJ is an important administrative burden reduction, which does not affect the person concerned, but is keen to meet caregivers. It facilitates their work and macro in the interests of the patient. I now turn to the questions that have been raised on other subjects, and I am also explicitly addressing Mrs Agema's broader questions. Mrs Westerveld asked the more general question whether the cabinet had properly adjusted the antenna. If there have been no major incidents, why are we doing this operation? I realize that this question is not in the right place; for the "beautiful" she could have been better placed for this. The answer to this question is: parties have prepared themselves well for the entry into force of this important law, supported by the chain programme. Hence, crisis measures and care authorisations will be imposed from the date of entry into force. But this has asked a great deal from the field. Mrs Westerveld speaks the field, so do I. That'll tell you where the shoe's wringing. Hence the signal that the execution is under pressure. As I promised your Chamber in oral Question Time of 19 November 2019, I did not want to wait for the evaluation by amending the law. I believe that practice also proves that we have made a good move in this, because there are already possible changes ahead of the evaluation. Mr Kwint asked a more general question: what is the balance between what is now in the repair law and what is in the evaluation? In general terms, what is now possible and what is not very important and has a great deal of support for all the parties involved is included in this law. We also included this in the previous repair bill. In sessions, possible solutions have been discussed extensively. What is not acceptable and what is really far-reaching must wait for the evaluation. That is in response to Mr Kwint's question. Mr. Chairman. Then again in the context of the measures: the decision-making period judge by application expert examination. The decision-making period is very short by three weeks if an expert examination has been requested or witnesses are heard. Now that such an expert examination is often carried out at the request of the person concerned, who, for example, wants a second opinion, it is in the interest of the person concerned to have sufficient time to do so, so that the judge can take the results into account in the decision. Since the prior authorisation for care lapses if the judge fails to give a judgment in time, the time limit shall be extended in this case. Mrs van den Berg has tabled an amendment to that effect. She says you have to limit that to the back, too, in six weeks. We have not limited this for a number of reasons. The most important thing is that this is asked from the field, by all involved. So also the patient side says: give some space, but don't give time horizons to the back, because we really have to take that time. We can also expect all those involved to take this very seriously and take that time. But we must not take more time than we need. In fact, you can reason the other way. That is what I want to say to Mrs van den Berg and other proposers: if you limit it to six weeks, even those six weeks can become a new standard, because people think 'we have six weeks'. I want to stay away from that. So I would really advise against that amendment, because the field parties say 'keep it open at the back' and because six weeks could become the new standard. I think that's gonna be really good if we do it the way the field parties ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	What is the number of that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	I thought no. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	We think it's no. Nine is... nine is... nine is... nine is... nine is... nine
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	Yeah, it's no. 9!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	Good. That's for our bookkeeping.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	In fact, with his last remark, the Secretary of State gives exactly the reason why the CDA goes to those six weeks. The Secretary of State says if you put down six weeks, six weeks could be the new standard. That is exactly why we say: if you leave it completely open, then there is no further pressure to reach a decision. So then "indeterminate time" can easily become the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	I would like to ask Mrs van den Berg, perhaps that is more of a rhetorical question in whose interest that would be. After this amendment had become known, I would like to thank you for having switched over so quickly, Mrs van den Berg, who presented this to, among other things, MIND. 'Cause you'd say the patient could be duped. But also MIND says: no, we want to keep this open. If this is said by the people who have to work with it in practice and who represent the patient side, who are we as legislators to say: no, we are going to do it differently? I shall therefore remain silent on this amendment. In fact, I would like to say that if you want to close it at the back at six weeks, then there is almost a suspicion of the sector, in the sense of "you're not gonna take care of that." This, while both the relief and the demand side says: we can do just fine with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	Then I am surprised how that three-week limit came into being, because it was all consulted and presented throughout history. So there was support for the three weeks. It is seen in practice that this does not always work easily and then we let go of everything. As CDA, we have a lot of concerns about what that's gonna mean. If the field says it's gonna be okay, I'd say put it at six weeks and take it with you in the evaluation. If it turns out it's all gonna be okay by itself, then you can take a next step in that. We are now completely adjusting a law that has only been in force for over a year and completely releasing things that we have been talking about for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	I do not think there are any new arguments anymore. I can say again that the people who work in practice and represent these organisations, such as MIND and PVP, the Patient Confidence Foundation, and the supply side, the aid workers and the judiciary, say, "Please keep it open." Then I find it annoying... The cabinet therefore deliberately chose to leave that deadline open. Mrs Van den Hil, who is standing at the interrupting microphone, said: but who assures me that this will not be interpreted as a kind of carte blanche? We have had intimate contact with the sector. They say: "Take it from us that we will do it as soon as possible." But in the short time that these laws are in force, it has been found that three weeks is very short for those involved to do that expert examination. From that side comes the question, and from that side comes the plea: do not nail it again to the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	A little extra: the Secretary of State indicated that the care authorisation lapses, but I do not think that is the case. I don't know if there's any way to look at that. I will stick with it, however, which is also straight out of the field, namely that I do object to going from three weeks to infinity. I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u18	In response, two things. On that first point: in my view, although I want to check this and possibly come back to it in a second period, it is true that when the healthcare authorisation expires and the judge does not again take the decision to extend that healthcare authorisation, which will automatically expire. I want to check, but I think that's the case. That's one. Two. Mrs Van den Hil also says, like Mrs Van den Berg, that I would rather limit him. I would like to say that I am sorry that the legislator, the Chamber, is not in agreement with all the parties involved in this matter in practice. I'm sorry to hear that. I can't help noticing that. I would find it a really strange figure if the Chamber said: we are wiser than all those people who work with it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u19	I'm still thinking out loud, because I understand that wish from the field very well. I also do not want to produce legislation that is not working in the end. But I'm looking for something more solid, because if MIND and other patient organisations say "we think it's a good idea," then I think they should be able to show at the end of the year how it actually works with the lead times and how it works in practice. I think that should be asked, precisely because it is about something very fundamental, namely the rights of clients and patients. We can do it ourselves. So I'm looking for a little more grip on the weighing moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u20	I understand from Mrs Van den Berg that she is considering a motion to include this in the evaluation. I find that quite exciting too, because this is now a repair law that has been drawn up in consultation with the broad field, with very broad support. It's up to the First Chamber to decide. If it's right, the evaluation will be completed in a year's time. The first instalment is already at the end of this year. We don't have any experience yet. But I can imagine, as Mrs Kuik asked, that we should monitor where this leads. So I would like to say to the Chamber that if you do not limit it to the back, it will not lead to lengthy procedures and perhaps an undesirable situation. In individual cases, it may well be desirable for it to take a long time, not long but long. But I would like to say to the House that we are going to take a serious look at the effect of this move of extending 'three weeks' to 'closer', without time horizon, and to see if that actually leads to very long lead times.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u21	I'd like that. I do not yet know what my final decision will be, but if the Secretary of State makes this commitment, I would like to see an appointment made with MIND in the coming weeks, so to speak, to discuss how that is being investigated, how it is being portrayed and at what time. At the end of the year we have a first instalment; in a year we will have the full study. Is there another middle mode in there? Can we get a closer look at that in six months? In short, I do not want to ignore the practice, precisely because the patient organisations themselves say: do not do it. But at the same time it must be able to be measured and weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u22	I get that question. In addition to what Mrs Kuik suggests, I would like to talk not only to MIND, but also to the PVP and to the caregivers to see how they deal with it. So I'd like to talk to the broad field. We have very frequent contact with that. So I'd like to pick up that glove and see how we can keep a finger on the wrist and handle it responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken, for the supplement. Thank you, too, for the Secretary of State's commitment. I think that is very nice in itself, but in my head I'm still struggling a little bit with the fact that we're going to change, repair and monitor now, and we're going to fix it back if necessary. Because that's, maybe briefly, what we're going to do. I think that too should be discussed very clearly with the parties in the field, so that we do not go back and are jojoing. That is not convenient in practice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u24	In my opinion, Mrs Agema also spoke of the term "joying," namely that we should be careful not to be horribly joyed with this law. I have no reason to believe that what we are doing now is to leave open at the back how long you are doing about that investigation again. Perhaps you should make working arrangements that it has to be faster, and that if it really goes down the curve and it takes far too long, you still have to go back to legislation. But I have no reason to believe that. I cannot stress this often enough because it is so underlined by everyone involved. Perhaps that commitment which I make, that we should keep our finger on the pulse or not lead to undesirable situations, can be an additional argument for reconsidering that amendment. It's really hard to nail it to the back, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the deadline between filing the first care authorisation and the second one. Mrs Van der Laan asked a question about this four-week period. She asks: does the patient have enough time? The answer to this is that the bill states that the four-week period for the application of the next care authorisation will fall within the duration of the first care authorisation. This gives the healthcare provider more time in the procedure to arrive at an application. It requires careful steps to be taken, including drawing up and updating the healthcare plan and the health card. That's what happens with the person involved. So he knows what's coming next. Mrs Van der Laan mentioned in her term the example that it can theoretically happen that someone hears a day in advance or the care plan is extended. If it is right, this will really not happen in practice, because the person concerned, the patient, is involved in drawing up the healthcare plan. So it shouldn't come as a surprise out of the sky. If that does happen, then something goes wrong in the execution. The person concerned is therefore taken into account in the process. But the decision to extend the care authorisation may follow very shortly before the first care authorisation expires. This is also implicitly an answer to Mrs Agema's question in whose interest this is. I think it is in the interests of both the supply side and the demand side. Mrs Van den Berg asked a question about the deletion of the additional medical certificate in the event of a crisis. If the expiry of the second medical certificate does not lead to accelerated reuptake of patients with behavioural problems, she asks. And can that be included in the evaluation? I believe that Mrs Van den Berg agrees with me that the aim of the law is to minimise the amount of forced care. So what we want is this. We are talking about a situation that is only very short. That would be based on medical advice, a medical statement. You're talking about a very short period of time. We want to lighten things up, so if we want to stop that short shot, there's no need for a new medical statement. It is now being deliberately taken out, again in consultation with the sector. I would find it strange if we were to review this again, because this is now being dealt with one and a half years after entry into force. By the way, we also need to see when the First Chamber agrees to this bill. After a few months, I think it's very quick to start looking at where it leads. In fact, what I said to Mrs Kuik also applies to this. Of course, we also have to look at where this leads, but to include something that we now knowingly put into a repair law, in the evaluation... The evaluation is already underway, isn't it? There's already an evaluation in progress. There'll be hardly any data. Apart from that, there is a point of substance. We want this together, because we want a crisis measure to be as short as possible, and we want no one to be forced to be included longer than is strictly necessary. I know that Mrs van den Berg is about to say: but we also want to avoid this revolving door story, that people will come back as a result of a misjudgement. This is also recognised by the sector, but the sector says: between the time of the medical statement underlying crisis care/forced admission and the firing time is so short that there will be no new medical picture in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u25	Maybe I have the wrong examples from the field, but I hear from staff on the ambulance for example the following. They are called because someone is undressing in the middle of a square. That person will then be admitted and there will be no country to blame at that time. They'll end up in some kind of crisis shelter, and there'll be some medication. People don't always take it consistently. And the next day, that same paramedic can pick up the person concerned again because he's dismantling a park, for example. That situation gives you such a yo-yo movement every time. Someone's been fired, and they're gonna be re-recorded shortly after. I don't think that's conducive to the client either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u26	I understand Mrs Van den Berg's story. At the same time, the reality is that the sector, especially the people who are involved in this and who know about it, Mrs van den Berg has also spoken to them, and who are represented by the umbrella organisations, says that this is too quickly coming together and leads to huge administrative burdens. They ask that this be deleted. In their view, the image applicable at the time of the recording cannot have been completely reversed within three days. The sector is therefore asking to refrain from doing so. To evaluate that again after four or five months, I find time very strange. Moreover, we do not want it to be content at all, because we want to avoid forced recordings. Am I saying that we prevent people from getting back into the same misery a little while later and having to be taken back in again? Of course, we can never guarantee that. At the same time, everything is aimed at helping people as much as possible in their home situation, allowing them to participate as much as possible in society and not being forced to take up or provide care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u27	We are in complete agreement on the latter. I think Mr Kwint also said it very nicely. If you create a decent environment, hopefully you can provoke human behavior. I totally agree with the Secretary of State. But are there any figures on this? Is that something you might be keeping track of? We see it in people with confused behavior. A small group of people are recorded very frequently. That's what I'm looking for. Maybe we should change our treatments for a particular category of clients, something that's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u28	This is the same as Mrs van den Berg's previous interruption. I don't think there are any new arguments now. I think we should assume that most of the situations mentioned by Mrs Van den Berg relate to a situation where there is already a care authorisation, so a situation where someone is dismissed after a long withdrawal and comes back over time. The people who work in practice with people with psychological distress say: do not do it to us that in three or four days we have to give two new arguments about the medical situation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint asked: "The coercive measures are increasing and the duty of hearing is not working. You're not waiting for the evaluation?" For a moment, I thought there was a new interruption, but I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u29	If there's something the Chamberkeeper wants to say, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u30	In reply to Mr Kwint, I would like to say that the number of judgments has been increasing for several years. That's what he's known. But the number of coercive applications is flattening. Of course, that's what we want. The obligation to hear the crisis measures is a new instrument. Let us first give this instrument a chance to prove itself in practice, and let us at least wait for the evaluation on this point. The evaluation is coming up fast. This will enable us to address more fundamental issues, as I have said on several occasions. I would add that chain partners are working hard with the chain programme to improve practice with working arrangements. Let's use our time and energy for that. I think I've said something that triggers a reaction. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u31	You stayed quiet for so long. Then you'll ask for it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u32	Exactly. I thought I'd jump in that hole. My question was above all: what is the reason why no other changes are being made? I understand that hearing duty is a new instrument and that the number of coercive measures is flattened. But the essence of a flattening is that it is still increasing and that it is still much. There is also a logical relationship with the staff shortage and workload in the ggz. My main question is: are there any concrete improvements that you have already abandoned because it is only so short-lived? If you say that we have to wait for the evaluation so that we can improve the hearing obligation and that everything we would do now would be inadequate or ineffective, then we are waiting for it; fine. But it would be a shame if things were to lie on the shelf for unnecessarily long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u33	In my introduction, I tried to indicate what we did in the first repair law. I didn't mention that because the first repair here was a hammer piece. The Chamber said: move on quickly and make it all a bit easier to handle in practice. This second proposal is technical in nature, but there are also a number of points of improvement which are substantive in nature. That is why the Chamber wants to debate this. But when it is said that 'we are drawing a line', I am sorry too. I would have preferred to suggest a little more; very simple. I might go into that later or I'll say it now. I am thinking, for example, of the exchange between people under the regime of the Health and Force Act or the Law mandatory ggz. I just wish I could have arranged for that to be as smooth as possible. That's what we suggested. That was in the pipeline, but there was no support for that in the parties. And that is a major change. For this reason, we have said that you should not do something that is serious and anticipates the evaluation. You can't do an evaluation for nothing. We have the boldness to put forward a number of proposals to the Chamber, which we say is as ready as a whistle. I wouldn't call it low-hanging fruit just yet, but these are really measures for which there is broad support, which aren't super groovy, but which do give a sip of a drink in the execution. That's ahead of us now. I would very much like to go a little further, just like Mr Kwint, but in consultation with the sector, we have decided to do so on the basis of the evaluation. By the way, I would also like to emphasise that it is really super fast to evaluate so far-reaching new laws, the Law mandatory ggz and the Law care and coercion, within two years. In anticipation of that, we already have two repair laws, so how quickly do we want it? In parliamentary history, that's super fast, so to speak. I'd like to go faster, too. I'm also attached to support. When it comes to things for which there is no support or which are a bit heavier, I find it chic, also in the light of careful legislation, to do so, if necessary after the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. That same Mr.Kwint asked me after that, I will quickly proceed with the following answer: 'Whether you should not consider even merging the Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz.' I'm sure that question was raised earlier. In fact, the law mandatory ggz was the first law that I was allowed to defend on behalf of the cabinet in the First Chamber in January 2018. When I read the pieces, I thought, "Why did we make two different laws?" That's what a lot of people are wondering. At the same time, it has been a conscious choice. In fact, these have almost been accepted with the full support of both chambers. It was rightly said from the SGP that they did not vote for the Care and Force Act. The Law mandatory ggz came unanimously through the Lower House and through the Upper Chamber. These laws vary due to differences between target groups. I do not need to explain that to Mr Kwint. There are good, substantive reasons for merging the two different laws. At least that is not the issue now. It may well be that the evaluation raises that question again. Then let's face it. By the way, when I say the word 'plug up', I seem to be getting some kind of news section, because I am the first to mention it here in the Chamber. But is there a synonym for "popping up"? "Personal appearance" might be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u34	Well, then that's not happening again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, this was the block on the contents of the repair law. Let me now turn to specific questions, first of all about the connection between criminal law and civil law. Almost all spokesmen have drawn attention to this: from the CDA, the PvdA, D66, GroenLinks... Who does not, I would say. Mixing civil law and criminal law: how about that? Several spokesmen also say that compulsory care should not be a sanction. I would like to comment on that. This is, by the way, about the Forensic Care Act and specifically about Article 2.3, the control clause. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important that the law is enforceable and that every party in the chain can play its role properly. If the criminal court is considering a care authorisation, he does so because he believes that the person concerned needs care. That's not a disguised sentence. I'd like to put a big line on that. In their letter, the Dutch ggz and the NVvP draw attention to two aspects. One. When applying Article 2.3, the person concerned does not always end up in the right place. This can lead to unsafe or irresponsible situations. That is what the organisations that work in the ggz warn of. Two. The authorisation requirement of the Minister for Legal Protection is an important point of attention. These organizations consider it an undesirable mix of rights, which also leads to legal inequality. These are issues to which the legislator has also paid particular attention in the drafting of the Forensic Care Act. These are complex issues, as the Dutch ggz and the NVvP themselves indicate in the letter. These are also addressed in the evaluation of the Forensic Care Act and in the evaluation of the Compulsory ggz Act. I have been in contact with the Minister for Legal Protection. He could've been here, too. His subject matter is also discussed here, but very side by side. I have been in contact with the Minister for Legal Protection, because the Wfz is his responsibility. I am going to ask him, in response to the questions on this subject, to inform the Court of Justice about this. That is not going to happen before the vote; I do not think that is necessary either. He has told me that he naturally has views on this. I can assure the Chamber that I would like to discuss this with him, in order to inform the Chamber more about it. That was this cup. Then I'll join the Participation Act. It is a pity, however, that Mr Kwint is gone now. In fact, all the political groups have drawn attention to the aspect of finance and the withdrawal of the welfare allowance, which we had an interesting Question Time less than a week and a half ago, with oral questions. There's an amendment... I don't have a number on hand; it's got a new number. No. It's 22 years old. It always gets a new number at a new signature, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u36	Yes, no. 22. To keep it clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u37	That will then result in No. 32 if everyone has signed along, but now it's no. 22. Let me be clear, for everyone who is listed below, that I share the sympathy for this amendment. I share the concern that everyone has about what we do to people who are forced to be taken in against their will and that we also say: you know what, we also take your welfare allowance. By the way, we will not leave them completely empty-handed, because then they will be able to go to special assistance. However, at oral Question Time, I did say that this must be an action by the healthcare provider and not by the person concerned. Otherwise, you're gonna do a lot to someone to get a few cents to pay their rent, for example. A big plume for Mr Kwint because he says: I see a hook in this law so I'll take it right away. I'd like to invite you to do this as carefully as possible. There is no Social Affairs Minister here who can defend the Participation Act. Taking such a major change with us as an amendment, I say with all due respect, is perhaps quite tricky. I can't see all the consequences for myself. I have, of course, been in contact with the Minister for Social Affairs. We cannot overlook all the consequences. I'm not talking about the financial consequences. There will undoubtedly be, but the principle goes far for the cost, I think. It will also have financial consequences, but so be it. Perhaps it is important that the Minister for Social Affairs, as I said at Oral Question Time, is dealing with other shortcomings in the Act of Participation. He wants to share that with the Chamber very soon, on June 3, so next week. I hear Mrs Kuik say, I am happy to hear with my left ear: then we vote a week later. I am sympathetic to the amendment. At the same time, I believe that we should go for careful legislation. When I look at Mr. Kwint, so does he. And I can't see all the consequences, for example, whether all TBs clients are covered. I don't know if he wants to. I would like to make an offer to the Chamber that the Minister for Social Affairs sends an appreciation of this amendment to the Chamber, because it is his law. It's possible for the vote. It would be very desirable for him to have a decent time to put that on paper. Then Tuesday is very fast. The appreciation therefore comes with a positive basis, as far as I am concerned. Only, I really don't see all the consequences. I am sure Mr Kwint will not blame me for not being the specialist participation law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u38	We have MPs for that to be a specialist on all kinds of points. Of course, Minister Koolmees is more than free to send a letter before the vote with an appreciation of the amendment. I don't even think he needs our permission to do that. I would just like to say, which I hope will reach him in one way or another, that a lot of the changes that have been discussed today have been made with the argument: this has been done in consultation with the field of work, clients and interest groups and they all support it. I was very pleased to read that this amendment also applies to this amendment. So in that sense, it would be a change in the regime that fits perfectly into this law, precisely because it is not controversial at all in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u39	Not a pin to get in, what Mr. Kwint says. At the same time, I keep saying that I am not a spokesperson on behalf of the Cabinet and that I cannot and I do not think Mr Kwint can see all the consequences of this rather simple adjustment. I'd like to get a sharp look at that first. It may well be that we're overlooking something that comes in that appreciation. I think that Mr Kwint is also fine with the appreciation being given. I would be pleased if the Minister of Social Affairs could have a moment to put it on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u40	On the quint c.s. amendment Amendment No 22, the old amendment to item No. 21, therefore, we will receive another letter from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yeah, for the votes. After the votes, I don't think it's a good idea. Fine. On this subject, I would like to address Mrs Van den Hil's question on the financial situation of people in forced care. In the event of forced entry under the regime of the Law compulsory ggz and the Health and Force Act, according to Article 13, third paragraph, of the Participation Act, persons are not entitled to assistance. Well, that's what Mr. Kwint wants to undo. However, there is a right to special assistance. It belongs to the competence and responsibility of municipalities to implement it. We expect the healthcare provider to take an active role in this and not leave it to someone in a very vulnerable situation. Mrs Van den Hil asked whether there were often such financial complications. How often that plays, we don't know because that's not good to get in the picture. The ggz doesn't keep track of this and the municipalities don't. My colleague from Social Affairs is going to take a serious look at this problem. In the broader letter of 3 June on imperfections in the Participation Act, not to be confused with the short Appreciation Letter I have just mentioned, he will address bad financial consequences for people, also in forced care. This was the block of Participation Act. I now turn to the issue of monitoring and legal evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mrs Kuik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u43	I think this question is also included in the previous block. Looking at the welfare, there might be more effects. I mention housing, but it could also be in the area of debt relief or other areas. It doesn't have to be for next week, but it's useful that more is looked at. I mean, just use this trigger to look at it with a broader perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u44	When Mrs Kuik raised that question, I thought: housing, that is indeed going to be a problem. For example, if you're forced into hospital, you're fired after six months and then you notice that your home is inhabited by other people, that's horrible. You can overcome that by simply maintaining the welfare allowance, for example. Debt relief is also a responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs. But I do understand her request: look at other laws that provide financial support and see how the regime is doing. So let's take a broader look at that. I'm going to pass that question on to the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you for this commitment and also thank you for allowing me to explain it even better. I'd like that very much. I understand that this is not possible for the votes, but I would like to have a thorough analysis of this with a few weeks, because I think that can be very useful and helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u46	Effective for the sharpness: that is the financial problem of people who are in a forced framework under the law mandatory ggz and the law care and compulsion across the full breadth. In my view, Mrs Van den Hil has also asked the same type of question: identifying the financial problems of people who are under the regime of one of the two laws currently on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u47	Just a little more specific. You're being forced into hospital. We now know that welfare was a problem. We probably knew that a long time ago, but at least we are paying attention to that now. There are perhaps more aspects that affect people in their lives, financial aspects, debt relief routes, etc., etc., etc. So just take a broad look: you're person x, what do you run into?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u48	It sounds like some work is coming from behind, but I think it is a fair question, because we are talking about a very vulnerable group of people. Yeah, so this is a legitimate question. Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I'll go to the monitoring and law review. That's my one-after-last block. After that, I have some other questions. When it comes to that monitor, the chain monitor, the chain partners are jointly responsible for good monitoring of the implementation. The national chain monitor for 2020 has now been published. In addition, a regional monitor is provided every quarter in order to compare implementation practice between regions, a kind of benchmark. For example, the chain monitor looks at the new instruments of the law, but also at the number of crisis measures, the number of health clearances. New instruments in the law are also being looked at, such as the own plan of action to prevent the person concerned from having compulsory care. This has now been done more than 300 times. There was no such instrument. It is nice that in 300 situations the person concerned could write a plan of approach, with or without family or trust, and thus prevent him from entering a forced care regime. It's wonderful that this instrument works like this. That's one. Two. The possibility that anxious relatives or locals can report to the municipality that they are concerned leads to people getting into the picture sooner. That is also clear from the monitoring. I would like to look at Mrs van den Berg, because she has asked a question about this. She had filed a motion that she would like to have that monitoring in focus. I hope that I have understood that well by the way I dealt with it, namely that the first monitor that has appeared has been sent to the Chamber. By letter of 7 September 2020, so the law was in force for more than six months, I sent it to the Chamber. That was about the numbers from the first quarter. All other monitors are public. I mentioned this in that letter: you can see that, there is a website for it, www.dwangindezorg.nl. I had the impression that I had carried out that motion because something that is on a public website doesn't have to be sent to the Chamber separately, but if Mrs Van den Berg there is another idea... No, I shouldn't provoke anything! I'm going to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u49	You're asking for it a little bit. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I'll be brief. We are going to take a closer look, but the key question of ours was, of course, whether you could get out of the monitor that there might be other measures. That was then that observation care, which we were particularly in favour of. I haven't seen a link to that yet. But we would like to return to that at another debate with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u51	Yeah, I'm fine. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Hil asked about the reduction in the number of forced recordings. How's the trend? With these important laws, do we indeed achieve such a secondary goal and reduce the number of forced recordings? For both laws, that is the starting point. The number of forced admissions should decrease, or the number of forced types of care, because this is also a treatment law, it can also be done at home. An important tool is that there can also be provision of outpatient forced care. The latter is still new, and this is not being applied very much. The people in practice, the aid workers, perhaps Mrs Van den Hil will recognize that from her previous job, she still needs to get used to that possibility. So you don't see large masses there where it can be done that way. Maybe it's a good thing that that grows in carefully. We cannot yet see whether the new instruments are leading to a major shift from inclusion to outpatient coercion. That's generally the line. It's too early to draw any conclusions. Mr. Chairman. There are numbers. Mrs Westerveld asked if there were any figures of the number of crisis withdrawals/crisis relief operations and the number of authorisations. Those numbers are there. Quite generally you can say... 2020 is an atypical year anyway, in this case for two reasons. It's the year of introduction, the year of introduction, and it's the year of corona. So in all respects you can ask yourself how representative it is. I can still send the numbers to the Chamber separately if they're not already out there somewhere. It seems that the number of health clearances is falling slightly, but that the number of crisis placements has increased slightly and that this is about similar I would like to say a little more broadly with the BOPZ care provided in the previous year. I do not think anyone in this Chamber would have expected us to suddenly see a huge fall in the number of types of forced care. This has remained about the same, with the number of longer-care authorisations falling compared to the BOPZ. This seems to be a positive development, but I think it is far too early to draw conclusions. Mr. Chairman. That was the monitoring. Then the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u52	There is another question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u53	In the explanatory memorandum, which was already written in 2010, I read that the ultimateremedium principle is an important starting point. If there is really no other way, help can be provided under duress. The tricky thing is that we see around us that a lot of young people and adults do not get into an appropriate treatment course, so sometimes it just goes crazy. Well, then, you're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether this principle is actually being applied. Aren't we gonna get over that way too easy? I do not want to say that this law is not good, but is it not too easy to get out of the law in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u54	I'll take a look in the folder. For example, there is Mrs Westerveld's question about the fact that compulsion at home is profound and how I ensure that it remains safe. How often is it applied and is it not really preventable with that ultimum remedium? Is that so? Or do we just let it all come down to it and go people all into forced care in that way, at least more than is actually necessary? I share Mrs Westerveld's concern. I also share the ambition she expresses implicitly or explicitly. It shouldn't be. On the contrary, we need to see a reduction in forced care, because, in my opinion, we can put it here, the less forced care, the better care is provided in the Netherlands. Namely: that people in a voluntary setting get the help they need when there is a request for help. I am just saying in all honesty that I think it is too early to say, after one year, a corona year in which all kinds of other factors play a part, that it is not going well yet and that we must ensure that people flow there. If the question is more focused on whether there is sufficient care staff and so on, Mr Van Ark might be able to say a little more about it. It's about the labour market. I share Mrs Westerveld's view. Let me just say this in my words: any type of forced care that we had the slightest suspicion that could have been prevented if it had been properly dealt with earlier is a defeat for Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u55	But exactly that's almost the order of the day. We hear a lot more often that people really want help and get on a waiting list. No one gets better from a waiting list. At some point it will go so wrong that an ambulance must indeed be needed, someone gets into the crisis shelter and comes into isolation or fixation; well, I don't have to explain it to the Secretary of State. In the explanatory statement very heavy words are rightly used: forced care only if there is really no other way. I also mentioned in my contribution that it affects certain fundamental rights when someone is forced to receive care. But that's my struggle here. How are we gonna handle this? It can all be recorded very well on paper and so does this law, but at the same time we do not see in practice that forced care does not come around the corner until there is really no other way. And that's because we don't have enough places for people who need help. So I'm struggling very much with the difference between what's on paper and how it really works out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u56	This type of discussion has a lot to do with the interesting subject that we discussed in Question Time last Tuesday, namely anorexia aid. In the case of anorexia, in the opinion of some aid workers, even compulsive feeding may be required, otherwise a child may succumb. The aid is there in front not what we would like. This raises a much wider problem, namely: are there sufficient treatment? Is there enough help? I said something about that last Tuesday. As a cabinet, we invest heavily in this with extra money for youth. In the case of adult aid, money is not the issue, if it is good, because we have a budget that now seems sufficient. We are not saying that we have now tackled staff shortages, if they are already there. I would also like to pass that question on to Minister Van Ark if this question is broader. But if we peel him off and it always comes down to a shortage of staff and therefore a lack of adequate assistance, then it affects the wider demand for labour and care. Mrs Westerveld and I are also in complete agreement. If the starting point in the law is that it's an ultimum remedium, then... I have just said rather tough lyrics about it, namely that it is a defeat for society if it has been preventable and it still happens. I think the aid workers in the field see it as defeat and do everything they can. Like Mrs Westerveld, I go to work and I speak to psychiatrists who say: we do everything we can to prevent forced care, because that is just a matter of honor for us. That is their attitude and yet they sometimes see themselves forced to impose it. It may not be traumatic for these doctors, but it's certainly very far-reaching for them if they have to apply it. Mr President, I do not think I can say much more at the moment. I'm not going to solve the problem this afternoon, but it's all hands on deck to provide the help necessary to prevent forced help at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u57	Very briefly, because I want to see the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u58	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. A very short question. Is that somehow monitorable? I do not want us to burden care personnel with any additional administrative burden. That is what this law is meant for, but is it to be monitored so that the number of coercive treatments is monitored somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u59	Yeah, because that's about compulsion at home, too. That seems to escape the perception, because a recording is easier to classify. I have asked the parties involved, the providers side, to provide data on forced care to the IGJ, so that a monitoring is made for the total pallet of forced care. So I can answer Mrs Westerveld's question right away. Those figures will be available and of course they will be available to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u60	Fine. I'd appreciate it if the Secretary of State went through his next pile a little more pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u61	I have already said a few words about the evaluation, but perhaps just a brief one. The aim is to complete the first instalment of the evaluation by the end of this year. There must already be a great deal of insight, but this is mainly about qualitative information. There is still a great deal of quantitative information to follow, including on financial effects. Unfortunately, as a result of corona, we need a little more time. This means that a genuine full evaluation will be completed in more than a year's time, namely in the summer of 2022. So we need a little longer, but then we do have a good evaluation, which hopefully will give us an opportunity to see if there is a need to further adapt the law. I think I can say a lot about the evaluation, but perhaps I can leave it at that for now. I've already said so much about it that I think that's enough. I think it was not Mr Van der Staaij, but his colleague, Mr Stoffer, who asked on behalf of Mr Van der Staaij for an examination of costs in connection with the compulsory ggz Act. Mr Van der Staaij has other things to do. For the purposes of the legal review for both the Wzd and the Law on compulsory ggz, he asks to make clear where the main financial bottlenecks lie. I think we'd like to put that in the picture. If Mr Van der Staaij says "fine," then... No, I'm not gonna challenge him! As far as I am concerned, this was the response to this point. I'm gonna move on to the block of other questions. There's only a few left. I come to Mrs Westerveld's interesting point: shouldn't you replace the term "healing director"? That is the amendment to item No. 16. She wants to replace that term with "medical director." We have just submitted this term to people from the sector. And by the way, an important female representative from the sector says, please, do not do that to us. This is what a female representative from the sector says about this term. By the way, "Director" is a man again, isn't it? Maybe you should turn that into a medical director. But I would advise against this amendment. We shouldn't change this term on an afternoon-to-afternoon. It's also something of the sector. It's very complicated, because they're called "director," but they're not even director by the letter. But if we want to talk about that term, let's give it a little more thought. I would therefore advise against doing so now. Mrs Westerveld also had a question about forced care in open residential aid. What is being done to ensure that care workers know exactly what they can and cannot do? It's a very interesting question. We are also aware of this signal from the AKJ, but I think it is perfectly logical that people who have to provide such important care should know exactly how far they can go in the forced framework. Certain actions can only be carried out in closed youth aid. The signals are also known by the IGJ if they are handled too lightly. On the basis of its monitoring in the autumn, the IGJ will publish a publication for the residential youth aid, which will state what is and is not allowed. The IGJ takes structural measures in its supervision to ensure that young people receive appropriate assistance. The monitoring instrument has been adapted. There is a structural dialogue with young people and parents. The IGJ also checks whether employees are sufficiently equipped to help these young people. So there is a lot on the board of the IGJ, but it looks very closely at whether this is done according to the quality standards that we all praise. Mr. Chairman. I will also end with a question from Mrs Westerveld, which is who can apply coercive treatment. The background was that she read in a job opening that students might be able to help with that. Mandatory mental health care is complex care. The mandatory ggz Act provides that only someone with a BIG registration is allowed to do so. This is also appropriate in the ministerial arrangement. Only such a person can be responsible for care, so if a student comes along, okay, but the person responsible is the BIG-registered one. At present, in an exhaustive list: the psychiatrist, the clinical psychologist, the specialist elderly medicine, the addiction physician, the zz psychologist, the clinical geriatric and the nursing specialist ggz. In the National Quality Statute GGZ, which has been drafted by the field itself, it is stated that a psychiatrist should always be involved as coercion is considered. Then it really goes to the psychiatrist. It is up to the healthcare provider who is actually being deployed, but they have to come out of that list. It may, of course, also be possible to support those who are still in the process of training. Of course, it's a good school. As you know, the IGJ is the supervisor on the quality of Wvggz care. Mr President, I think I have finished the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u62	Fine. You have dealt with three amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u63	I thought I should have done four. I'm gonna check which one I didn't do. Otherwise, I can do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yeah, but we're so busy right now. If you don't have it in hand, we'll do it later. It doesn't really matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u65	The Minister has six, so I was already outnumbered. It will be an unsustainable situation. I can see if I can find the amendment and, if necessary, deal with it immediately after the Minister's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u66	Then that's what we'll do. It may also be possible in the second term if necessary, but I thought: you are dealing with the amendments now, so we will cut and shave them all for a while. Thank you so much. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mr President, before the Minister says here: it is Mrs Westerveld's amendment to item No. 20, on a self-binding declaration from 12 years old. For the sake of clarity, I would advise against that. The change to this particular section was a very small technical change. Mrs Westerveld makes a rather radical change of substance. Just because of the arguments I mentioned, we are doing important things after the evaluation, I would like to advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u68	Clear. Then I shall give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I will make a brief introduction and then answer the questions of the Members of Parliament. Let me begin with a word of thanks for the contributions of the members of this Chamber. It is recognizable that this theme is widely held in a warm heart. A great deal has been said about it in recent years, but today, too, it is clear how it is going to be done. I really like to see that. It's going, and that came back in a lot of contributions, about controlling your own life as much as possible. I think it is very important that this should also be done as much as possible for people in care for the elderly and the disabled. If you look at the Law of care and coercion, then that law gives people but also their neighbors that opportunity, because it basically assumes the freedom of the client. It has been recalled several times: involuntary care should only be allowed if there is really no other way. I will not repeat the entire introduction of the Secretary of State, you can rest assured, but we have looked back at the system before 2020, when the system of forced care did not yet function properly. We had evaluations for that, too. It has been discussed for a very long time whether one or two new laws should be introduced. But we are standing here today and we have seen, also in today's contributions, that there are no easy solutions. It is always about the balance between legal protection and feasibility. I've heard a lot of dilemmas come along today. Those dilemmas are recognizable. The personal stories, as Mr Kwint also pointed out, were, for me, proverbial exactly what this is all about. I recognized that very well from the conversations I had myself. It is precisely these dilemmas that must ensure that, as we stand here, we do not disrupt that balance by making too rapid changes. Perhaps it is good to arrive at a shared problem analysis today and see what we can do today. But we will have to evaluate carefully first. We have been doing this with this law for two years, and that is quite quickly with such complex legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u70	I cannot help interrupting when the Minister makes some reflective remarks, even though the evaluation is still to come. She was also a spokesperson once, when this law was discussed here in 2012. In our term it has already been stated that before the law came into force there have been quite a few changes following comments from the First Chamber, then a repair law and now again a repair law. What can we learn from that, I wondered. What really went wrong that a law that took so much time to prepare had to be amended so often?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u71	If Mr Van der Staaij asks me so much about the man or, as I might say to Mrs Westerveld, at the woman, then I think this law shows that so much is coming together here. I thought Mr Kwint put it very nicely in his term of office that you can't actually make one-size-fits-all when you do in principle with a law. Then you lay down an ideal framework, which should give a certain predictability, which weighs proportionality, which brings fundamental rights into balance. If you look at the people for whom these laws are meant, then there is such a diversity, even if it is about the moment when people stand in their lives or about their living environment: is it intramural or is it in another living environment? You can see that in practice this leads to a lot of different situations. That's why we said at some point, and I think that's a good thing: we're going to make that decision, this is him, but with a quick evaluation. My predecessor on this dossier, Mr De Jonge, also said: I will not wait for the evaluation if repairs are needed. The key to this is: does everyone agree? If the different sections in the field agree on the client side, the provider side and also the supervisory side.......................................................................................................................................................................................... That was also the reason for this repair law. However, my advice to the Chamber would be to take place only for a moment on those larger themes where part of the field says: we want this very much. This is extremely complex. In any case, I am very pleased that the Chamber is taking its time for this repair law as well. Mr. Chairman. That actually allows me to skip most of my introduction, because that was exactly where we came from and wherever we are on our way. Let me start with a point that came back a lot today and for which Mrs Van den Berg also made a proposal. I am perhaps also saying this in reply to Mr Van der Staaij. For most of the clients you can actually get out of your way with these two laws. But there is indeed a small group of people who, with their specific concern, are better off under the care of the elderly or the disabled, when they actually have a mental illness. I think it is very good that the question is now being discussed in the field: can we also bring people with mental illness under the Law care and coercion if that is better for this person? I also talked to people who made such a switch and for whom it worked out much better in their lives that they were given a different type of care. But this is, of course, perfectly possible if it is done voluntarily. However, if it is forced to take its turn, then the problem that we are talking about today will arise. If you were to allow this generally, it would have really far-reaching consequences for the scope of both laws. I therefore believe that it is good to address this issue properly and to examine it in that evaluation. That is where the dilemma between legal protection and implementation arises. In addition, I would say that it should not be up to a doctor to determine whether someone with a mental disorder would be covered by that regime of the Law mandatory ggz, or precisely under the Law care and coercion, as parties say. Because legal protection must be properly weighed. I would say, in this repair law, that that really goes too far. But I would certainly like to support this idea of a hardness clause, particularly because of the problems that arise in society, which we have all heard about. I shall come back to this later specifically when I come to Mrs van den Berg's amendment. In this way, you can really let the judge decide which regime is best suited in individual, poignant cases. In addition, in the short term, I could extend the list of similar diseases in the Decision on care and coercion. As far as I am concerned, these are diseases that are also specifically defined. I would like to have that done before the year round, and I would like to work with experts from the long-term care and the ggz. That brings me to the amendment that I have left in respect of item No. 17, Mrs van den Berg's amendment. It proposes that people with mental illness should be able to bring care and coercion under the Law. That's about that small group of people for whom that distinction doesn't work out. And it is proposed to include a hardness clause for the distressing cases. That amendment I would like to give the House's opinion. I say this in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, whose colleague Mr Stoffer also asked. I would like to highlight that this should not become a shortcut to easily bring people under the Law care and coercion. So it is indeed important that a judge should be used to determine which law might best apply to a person. That amendment therefore has the Chamber's opinion. As far as the amendments are concerned, I come to the amendment on item No. 23, previously the amendment to item No. 11. That is the amendment tabled by Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs Van der Laan and Mrs Pouw-Verweij. That amendment concerns a part of this repair law to record the acute involuntary care within 48 hours. It is therefore proposed to make it "smart," so to speak, rather than to do it as soon as possible. I would also like to give a ruling on this amendment to the Chamber. I have also really looked at what this means for the people in the execution. We have relaxed this scheme for the application of acute involuntary care outside the care plan, at the request of the field. Client organisations have also indicated that they can support this proposal. That was an important measure, as I said, of the choice which parts might be included in this repair law. I think it's a good thing that we're doing this now, because imagine that someone is suddenly getting aggressive. Mr Kwint set an example. Then acute action is necessary. Then you can't put that in writing first. But it is important, Mrs Van den Berg and with her also tell the other proposers that you will put that as soon as possible. I can certainly live with that. That is why I am giving the amendment judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u72	I kind of got the feeling the minister's at the end of her block. In my contribution I had asked myself about the role for mental patients and the Health and Force Act. I understand that the Minister is now saying, "Wait, you're gonna tear up so much; that doesn't really fit in with the character of the law we're dealing with right now." We have, of course, talked more often today about the route towards evaluation and improvement points and so on. Is there, for example, the possibility to include people with mental illness in the Wzd? Or, more broadly speaking, I know that it will stir up an old discussion, or possibly putting the laws together in order to arrive at a single regime, can also lead to a solution? If you have one law, it is no longer a question of whether someone is covered by one law or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u73	I would certainly like to answer the first part of the question with a yes, because that is, I think, the problem we all hear and hear. When it comes to the two regimes, of course, it has been very consciously chosen to do so. In his speech, Mr Kwint also mentioned the real debate of principle on the legal status of the people concerned. It should be the same under both regimes. I think that these are certainly the themes that play a role in the evaluation, but that evaluation is not primarily aimed at making another whole new regime. But to see where people fall between shore and ship or to the situation where you are now, for example, from the Health and Force Act to the Law mandatory ggz can but not so easily the other way around, if you do not agree with it yourself. That is a subject we need to take on a wide scale. Other legislation, for example on quality, should also be included in the evaluation, I would also say in the direction of Mrs Westerveld. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u74	I am, in fact, specifically concerned with the question of whether it could be a solution. At the moment when the conclusion is that we're gonna tear everything apart and it doesn't help a client to move from two laws to one law, I'm fine with that being written down and sent to us. As long as it is taken as a possible solution to the problems we encounter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u75	Yes, I'm a reasonably practical person in that respect. There is a certain amount of ideology in my mind, I say honestly in the direction of Mr Kwint. But I think this is an excellent subject in which we have all been very united. What works for people? So that is certainly the approach to the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs van den Berg's last question on the proposal from the field parties to ease the opinion of the external expert. She's asking why we didn't incorporate that into repair legislation. She has also tabled an amendment on this subject, which I shall be so grateful for. This is an especially important part of the legal protection of the Health and Force Act, precisely because that external expert is not in the service of the healthcare provider. That means that someone can actually advise independently and without burden. We also want learning networks to be created. For example, we also see healthcare organisations saying over and over again: we are each other's second pair of eyes. So I would not like to change this point now. I've already told you a little bit about the way I look at the amendment. I do think this is an important issue to take into account in the legislative review. What, as I said earlier, can happen is to extend the list of healthcare providers who can be external experts. I can do that in lower regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u76	Is this the amendment to item No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u77	No, I'm not there yet. This was Mrs van den Berg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u78	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u79	I can go straight to that amendment, but I have to look for it, because I had it all organised by speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u80	Otherwise, we'll do it later, if it messes up your system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u81	Yes, I think it is appropriate to consider this amendment in detail. The SGP asked about the cost side of the Care and Force Act and whether there would be another follow-up investigation. That is what is going to happen, I can say in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, because we are asking the NZa to include the effects of the Health and Force Act in the next comprehensive cost study of the Long-Term Care Act. To this end, we will also include the results of the study in the evaluation. If these results come from the NZa's research, we will also take them into account in the preparation of the budget in the Wlz framework for 2022. The letter to the NZa, which also responds to the report, I will send a copy of it to the Chamber shortly. I say this in the direction of Mrs van den Hil van de VVD, who also asked questions about the cost side, using the opportunity to congratulate her warmly on her beautiful and involved maiden speech. Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked in the context of the assessment of involuntary care whether that roadmap could not be simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u82	I also asked a question about the cost side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u83	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u84	I assumed the minister might take that, too. Our question was how it was actually planned that it would yield a few million, but that the cost of implementation is now estimated at 111 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mrs Westerveld rightly referred to the fact that, as I recall, 2.9 million was involved in the submission in 2009. This also reflects ten years of discussion on how to implement this law. Because that amount of 2.9 million was involved in the filing of the law. But we really did take ten years, and there was a lot of talk about that law, and in the end, when that law was finished, we said, "What does this mean? We have asked the NZa once more to pass it on, otherwise you will work with outdated information and then ask the field to so-called scan the pouch yourself. That's not the point. So this is indeed a reflection of the development of that law in ten years' time. The Roadmap is, let me put it this way, sometimes considered to be somewhat inflexible. I would also like to look at the evaluation to see if we have not applied too tight a number of points. But it is a very fundamental part of the law, because by taking the steps in the roadmap, you can see that we are really working on the proper representation of this legal protection, especially for vulnerable people. So if you did that now, in this amendment of the law, it would upset the balance, as far as I am concerned, but it is an excellent point for evaluation. However, I can say the following in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, whose amendment on Article 13 has now been co-signed by Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I really think that's a relief that doesn't touch that balance. That is why I can certainly give that amendment a ruling, Chamber. Article 13 deals with the five criteria on which healthcare professionals must check before...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u86	That is now the amendment to item No. Turned 25, to keep it simple again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u87	Oh, yeah. It was so much fun: it was Amendment No. 13 on Article 13. But that's over now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u88	That's because everyone wants to sign up. Then it gets a new number and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u89	That's such a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u90	... chaos, chaos, chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u91	In any case, these five criteria go back to two criteria, and that is an important point. However, I assume that the second part, "assessing whether there are any less radical possibilities" also means that the healthcare provider is thinking about it or that involuntary care is really needed at the moment. But I think that's also at the heart of the law and at the heart of the amendment, and that's where I'm giving him Chamber judgment. I had already answered a question asked by the SGP about the possibility of a doctor treating someone with a mental disorder under the Law of care and coercion. So I'm gonna let that one go. Then I come to Mrs Kuik's question. She says: "The law contains a passage on the preparation of the medical certificate. You say that's already happening, so we get it out of the law. Shouldn't you leave it in there as some kind of guarantee?" I thought that was quite an interesting idea, but when I spoke to our expert officials in the preparation, they indicated: these are the articles in a law that end up in an electronic client file, which makes it such a subject in tens of thousands of files that people have to fill out, when it actually happens in another place. It is such a legal provision in which its deletion actually contributes to the removal of administrative burdens. That's what convinced me. So I'm happy to give her this answer. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema asked a number of very important questions about the bill. I also found a good question from her: what are the practical consequences of this bill? I also pointed out in the introduction that this bill is mainly concerned with matters where there is agreement both on the part of the providers and on the part of the clients that they make the law better. What's better? Well, that's more time for good care and more time for the client. For example, the procedure for determining willlessness, which is simplified at the request of the field, means that orthopedagogic and psychologists can also determine that willlessness. This means that there will be more flexibility and the quality of care will be increased. This also includes the BIG issue, which I will come back to separately later. But that was at least the idea behind the proposal. The current regime can also lead to an embarrassment of action, for example if you are dealing with someone who reacts badly and becomes aggressive. Then you'll have to ask permission first. That could lead to you not registering at all. The procedure for applying involuntary care is thus also improved. It is also about more customisation in the implementation of involuntary care in the care plan. You should now by default inform all kinds of people involved in the actual application of involuntary care, even if people themselves have indicated that they do not need it at all. Now you can do it with customization. What's also a source of annoyance for a lot of people, I think, is that you have to give your data to the government over and over again. The CIZ will thus also be able to reuse data. Mr. Chairman. I have also followed with great interest the contributions of the Chamber and certainly those of Mrs Agema when it comes to the relationship between the presence of people in care, the expertise of people in care and the coercive care that is being used. The question was whether you should say "hey, there are some things fundamentally wrong" or whether you should wait until the evaluation. I very much agree with her that we are only a short while away from working with this law and that it is therefore too early to make substantial changes. It is not the case that a lack of people has been a reason for these repair laws proposals. But I very much agree with her that a lot has happened in the past year, including in disability care and care for the elderly. People are incredibly burdened. The balance that we have found in the legislative proposal, and certainly the way in which it works in practice, I think that we deserve to check with each other in the evaluation to see if that balance is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u92	We all know that the laws are designed to prevent coercive care as much as possible and that you need sufficient and qualified staff to do so. Now the minister is also the leader of the labour market. In one of her last letters, she wrote that they still lack more than 30,000 people in the nursing homes to be able to meet the Quality Framework Nursing Care. So we are about 30,000 people short of being able to organize the minimum of care in terms of employees at all. My question to the Minister is: how does she intend to close that huge hole? If that hole is not closed, then this compulsion will remain the order of the day. Then an old lady gets a lot of inco there, and she could actually go to the bathroom herself, because there are no people in favour of organizing that. So when is the Minister's understanding going to solve this huge shortage of staff in the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u93	I think we're all just doing everything we can to catch up where we can. That has proved to be much harder than everyone had anticipated and thought, especially in the last corona year, of course. So I think there is still a lot of work to be done on this. However, I very much agree with Mrs Agema that we need to focus on the relationship between coercive care and lack of people, and that this really deserves the attention she has given to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u94	Yes, but the tricky thing is, of course, that the Quality Framework for Nursing Services has a legal framework that is not being complied with. Look, if you're short about 30,000 people to meet that, it's actually not enough to say that we all think that's very important. You'll have to do more than that. The Minister of VWS has been boasting very much about every thousand employees who joined us, but he wouldn't tell us how big the deficit was. So in the last letter from this minister we saw that it is a deficit of over 30,000 people. In what way does that legal part of the legal framework leave a light on at VWS that this is not just something we really want, but also something we just need? We just need to get those 30,000 extra people in the nursing homes, because otherwise we will continue to have debates about how much we all feel about coercive care in the nursing homes, while it is partly because we have too few people to take care of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u95	I would like to say quite honestly to Mrs Agema that I do not have the exact answer on the Quality Framework for Nursing Care. That's what my colleague is about. I just need to check that out. I would like to come back to that in second place. But in general terms, when it comes to the relationship between enough people at work and the application of coercive measures, I very much agree with Mrs Agema that we can be more focused on this and that we can have it more on the retina. As far as I am concerned, the effort to reach more people in care is a shared task. I also sent a letter yesterday about catching up, especially in hospitals, but also about the recovery of the people in care and how to get more people to care, for example through training courses and extra hands for care. It is a shared task to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u96	Finally. We all understand that, but the Dutch Parliament elections in 2017, not this one, but the previous one, were all about the extra 2 billion for the nursing homes. Now that money has been added, but the population grew much harder than the money that became available. Then there was a huge crisis, the corona crisis. The quality framework is of course also about the minimum of the minimum, so two employees out of eight residents during peak hours. It is therefore a very serious and worrying situation that we lack some 30,000 people at the minimum. This really leads to very serious situations in nursing homes in terms of shortages, to extremely high workload in nursing homes, and thus to unnecessary coercive care. We can say that we all have to put our backs on this and that we have to do this and that, but something really needs to be done. My question to the Minister is when this problem of the 30 000 deficit has been solved. In that case, we will only be at the minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u97	If you really want to set a quantitative target, reality can catch up with you. We've seen that, too. Things can happen that you weren't prepared for in advance. That's one. Two. I think we have been able to do a lot with each other over the past year, but we also see that there is a high outflow of people. Not for nothing have we also asked for the SER report, to look at how we keep this subject attractive, with employers and employees. As far as I am concerned, there are a number of building blocks in that. It is not for nothing that we have asked for this during this period, so that a new cabinet to be formed can start working on it. There are many building blocks, but unfortunately reality teaches us that you cannot add inexhaustible people to care. We will also have to find smarter ways to deal with the issue of the labour market and demographics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u98	All the way to the end. Perhaps the Minister could look back on my budget contribution. For how many proposals have I not made and how many motions have I not tabled from which the Minister said: dissuade, discourage, discourage? Perhaps the Minister can remember the video that I put on the Internet out of pure poverty, of all the proposals I made to solve staff shortages with the current population of employees. Remove these financial barriers, so that people do not want to make more hours and continue to work part-time, sometimes only for four or eight hours. Get rid of those financial barriers. You can do that. And it may also be the administrative burden, not this kind of administrative burden, which protects people, but the administrative burden that sometimes puts people behind their computers 40% or 50% of their time. Those are the people who are already on the payroll. We are making concrete proposals on this and we are tabling motions on it, and they are all rejected. They're all being dissuaded. That's what needs to be done. The people who are already there, who are already working in care, must be motivated to make more hours and their hands must be cleared. And what should be done is that certain wage groups are going up, and that is what the ESC opinion says. People need a better salary. The Wilders motion must be carried out sometime. And then you kept saying, "I'm gonna ask for a SER opinion." Now the ESC opinion is there, and it says: for certain wage groups, wages are far too low. And then it's up to the Minister to do something! When is the Minister going to do something about these salaries? When is she gonna remove those financial barriers so people can make more hours? When is she going to strictly delete the rules? When? 'Cause that's the only way we're gonna solve the problems. We do this not just by saying that the problem is so big and that it is so bad, but by doing what.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u99	I understand that we are coming here, because Mrs Agema made the right analysis that there may be a relationship between the shortage of people in care and the prevention of compulsion. I very much agree with her. And I also very much agree with, at least parts of, her analysis of the wider labour market issue. I would like to have said here that I always take proposals from every political party seriously and that a lot of motions have been made. Motions have also not been adopted, although they were good proposals, especially in the area of the labour market. I'm happy to keep doing that, because I think this is a subject that no one can solve on their own. It is precisely when it comes to labour market issues that I like the SER report that it says that you have to look at what an organisation can do, what the sector can do and what the government has to do. But honesty also requires that a number of issues ignore what a outgoing cabinet can do. That is because there is sometimes structural funding in numbers that are really strong. That is why we deliberately asked for the formation. That is why this issue has come at the top of the political agenda, at least as far as I am concerned. Let me just say here that I was very enthusiastic about the SER report. I think it's a nice and well-balanced report. I have also agreed with the Economic and Social Committee that, wherever possible, we are already working on aspects of it. Let's get back to the subject we're here for today. I would like to highlight for myself Mrs Agema's very justified point about the relationship between labour market issues and coercive care. I also think that this is a point on which we should look further, for example in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u100	I thought I'd drop this point in case we start talking about the labour market and care again. Mrs Agema is, of course, right when she says that there is a clear coherence. But now I hear the Minister say that she asked that SER report to form with it. But the Chamber also said in new composition: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A plan has to be made this summer. Before the end of the summer, we want to hear how it is going. I checked: the end of the meteorological summer is exactly like Princess Day this year. That's roomy, I'll say. I would like to draw a line here under the fact that this Chamber has said in its right mind: "No, don't wait for the formation, because we don't yet know if we have a new cabinet with Princess Day. Now make that plan this summer together with the care."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u101	I would suggest that I respond to this point in the stand-of-business letter on corona, which, I believe, is going to be sent around the weekend because there is another decision-making in the cabinet. The motion referred to by Mr Kwint was adopted last Tuesday. It really goes a little bit wider than the issue we are talking about here. So I would like to ask procedurally whether we can agree that I will return to it in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u102	If you do your best to devote a beautiful passage to it with good news, I am happy to wait until Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u103	You know me. Mr. Chairman. I turn to the question put by Mrs Agema and Mr Kwint about forced care in the home environment. We have had a long discussion about this in the drafting of the law. For me, it is a fact that the House of Representatives has agreed to a law that regulates this also for the home situation. But we see that the Law on care and compulsion when it comes to outpatient care is still in its infancy; I just have to say that honestly. Then you can see that a law is only in force for a short time. Corona really didn't help with that either. I would like to say that it simply cannot be applied lightly. We have started a number of learning paths in the field, together with ActiZ, namely the practical gardens. Similarly, community nursing can learn to apply the Health and Force Act well. If any form of coercive care is needed, is that any reason to live in a protected environment, as in no longer at home? There are, of course, situations where you allow a trade-off to live at home, for example, if you may have to shut off the gas or if people have to wear tear suits because otherwise they defile themselves, while most of the time they can live comfortably in their own environment. Keeping looking for that balance is very important, I think. I agree with Mrs Agema and Mr Kwint that we must continue to pay attention to this, because, frankly, this is still a bit in its infancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u104	Who is allowed to apply coercive care in the home situation? Is that the neighborhood nurse, the neighborhood nurse, the home help? Who's allowed to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u105	That's the one who's legally authorized to carry out the care. This is, of course, also the subject of the framework conditions and requirements for the provision of coercive care. The important thing is... look, we all know it wasn't supposed to happen before, but it did. That has also been the delicate balance in the legislative debate: it happens, but how could you do it in a way that is careful? That's what this law has come for. I really think it's too early to say: it's already working very well. But it really requires even more attention, including from the healthcare providers, to do this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u106	The minister doesn't know who's allowed to apply coercive measures. The minister doesn't know if the home help can lock the front door. The minister doesn't know if that should be the neighborhood nurse or the neighborhood nurse. That's very important to know, isn't it? For the organisations say: we do not have the people who are allowed to do this. What if you're just the old one or the starting demented one whose front door is turned shut and you don't agree at all? Then it's the home help who's gonna do that. Does the Minister think he has the authority to do so? If that neighborhood nurse, who is probably qualified to do so, is not available, then should the only other option be a protected living environment? You can't just close the door to someone, can you? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u107	Perhaps for the sake of clarity: the Care and Force Act is a law that regulates the decision to apply coercive care. That's different than arranging who can provide what kind of care. This is just what legislation applies to all healthcare providers. I think we need to highlight that, even for the discussion here. I think it's really about finding the balance. I think it happened before, when I wasn't supposed to. Now it's okay, but there's still not enough experience to apply it properly. I think that the question of whether you should go to a protected living environment at some point is very legitimate and that it should also be put in the contact between the person providing the care and the people themselves, or their representatives. But it's a gray area. If you're talking about what a law can or can't do, then I think it's important to determine when someone goes to a protected living environment, not something you can just cut with scissors and put into a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u108	If you're gonna close the front door because someone else is gonna wander and get very angry or sad about it, doesn't it just seem like time for a protected living environment for someone like that? If the Minister continues to defend this compulsion at home, I would like to hear her give concrete examples of what can be done at home in terms of compulsion or in the situation. I'd like to hear from her if it's possible that the home help will lock the front door. I'd just like to hear from the minister where the border lies with compulsion care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u109	Then we're going to repeat the entire legal history. This is a very difficult subject; you can't cut it with scissors. There are people who live most of the time very nicely at home, but where you do say: the gas is closing. I imagine there are situations where you say: the fact that you're going to lock the door is a sign that someone has to move to another living environment. In another situation, on the other hand, everyone can be very happy that they can still do so. I don't know. I'm not an expert on that. This is an excellent conversation that has to take place there, but it has to be done in a good way. Let us find each other in that we say: there is still insufficient experience of this. That's why we have these practical gardens. Experience must be gained with this. The most important thing that the Law does care and coercion, is to make something that happened in secret explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u110	I cannot imagine, Minister, that there is a law long and wide in the air and that we are getting these answers here today: that we still have to fly. Tasting gardens are done in the period before a law enters into force, especially with something as heavy as coercive care. You're not gonna say right now: we have the law and the frameworks, and I'm gonna go see where we're all flying. It's about compulsion! You need to know very well and very precisely when and when, when the border is reached and when someone belongs in a protected living environment. That's not something we're gonna investigate in labs with a law that's already working. That's what you have to do before you put a law into effect. Again, I want to know from the Minister where the border is. Where's the line? Who gets to apply compulsion? I've been giving an example a few times about closing the door at home. But it is also about someone in a wheelchair who gets a table for him to eat. Who can do that? Can home care do that, who comes to help with food? Or do you think a neighborhood nurse or neighborhood nurse should do that? Who's gonna do that? Who's qualified enough? Imagine forgetting to take it away again, the door outside is closed and the lady in her wheelchair sits behind her table and nothing more can be done. So who is qualified enough to apply this compulsion at home? I really want to hear from the Minister about a law that has been working in practice for a long time, where the border lies. When will it be enough? When is a protected living environment the better solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u111	To begin with, I can't cut situations with scissors. Each situation is individual. That is why it is so important that from the outpatient application of the Law care and coercion the district nurse has that conversation with the person concerned. In one situation, which may be a reason to leave the house, may be a reason to stay in the other situation. We are dealing here with a law that must be applicable to many situations. In any case, that is difficult by law, but certainly by a law that deals with such precarious situations. It is therefore important to learn how to apply it. That is something that needs to be stepped up in community care, so I say quite honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u112	This question, of course, does not come from the sky. It is not for nothing that Mrs Agema and I both draw attention to this. Why? Because this is almost more complicated than applying coercion in an institution, because someone is indeed closing the door behind him and then is gone and someone is alone again for some time. I understand that the Minister cannot say 'it is and it is not' because you can never say that for every specific case without understanding its context, but then you must be able to make a careful assessment on a case-by-case basis. Then we resent the fact that we get the messages from the field of work that there are too few people to assess the roadmap, that there are too few client confidants. This law lays down a very difficult process in the hands of healthcare professionals, client representatives and you name it, who are not there afterwards. So there's a really big hole. Then on the one hand, we don't have a law that says, "This can't be done," and this can be done. Again, given the practice of care, I still have some understanding for that. On the other hand, however, we do not have the professionals who can make a careful assessment of where we place that responsibility. I understand that the Minister does not have a clear answer to this, but I am curious to see how you can do it better in the future. How do we prevent us from having a law that might leave too much room here and there and on the other hand we have too few people to restrict that space in specific cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u113	That is, of course, the key question of this legal treatment. I think that what goes beyond "everyone in the field agrees on this" is a subject for that evaluation. Once again, for me, the added value of this debate is that it also highlights which issues we may have to add to that evaluation. They are very important subjects. The measure for me is now what we can arrange today. I think everyone agrees on that, too. That is possible and otherwise we really need to take a number of further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u114	Okay, but then we are going to include this question specifically in the evaluation, namely the gap between the space provided by the law and the staff shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u115	I have also indicated, in response to Mrs Agema, that I think that the labour market issue in relation to coercive care is a subject for evaluation. Absolutely. I come now to Mr Kwint's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mrs. Westerveld. And then I'd like the turbo on it, preferably to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u117	Here too. It is not for nothing that Mrs Agema and Mr Kwint make this an important point, because it is quite a matter of coercion against someone's will. The bill actually describes what the frameworks are, like what needs to be done before you can apply coercive treatment. At the same time, this bill leaves some room for manoeuvre. I also find it very unclear when and when it does not fit. There really is a gap between what you can write on paper and what is happening in practice, given the huge shortages in different layers of care. I would like to ask the Minister if she could give more substance to it, preferably before we vote on this amendment. The key question is, of course, when you can apply care control and when you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u118	I'm having a hard time with this. Mrs Westerveld has also previously asked how the professions look at the two regimes. So I get that question, but, quite frankly, I'm going to be dealing with ten years of legal treatment where exactly these kinds of questions have been asked where the balance sheet that is now in the law has come from, which we have said we will evaluate in two years' time. So I don't think it's the place to ask this question with this repair bill. Well, it is in the evaluation. We have said at some point: now we have to do it in practice, otherwise we will not get anywhere and we will continue to talk here in theory. We need to get practical experience with that law now. This means that we also need to see effects and results. Therefore, a passionate plea to address this question in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u119	I understand that in terms of procedure. At the same time, in practice in recent years, we have also had a debate in which we talked about a young woman who was tied up for a few years because there was no alternative. Of this, we, as a Chamber, like the then Minister, did not agree with you but with another Minister that it is very bad that such situations occur. We really have to be careful not to be alarmed by this kind of thing every time because people in the field sometimes just sit with their hands in their hair, for example because of staff shortages. That is why I am also looking for the legal framework within which we say 'we find this acceptable' or 'we all find this unacceptable'. 'Cause it's about a lot. Force treatment can also cause new traumas. That could really hurt people for the rest of their lives. At the same time, I can see the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u120	This is why I am also saying to Mrs van den Berg about this amendment that I think it is at least an interim solution to say to the people who are now falling between shore and ship: you are going to the Health and Force Act. The issue is, of course, broader, but we need to have handles. But honesty also requires saying that the law entered into force on 1 January 2020, that we agreed with the field at their request that we also extend the possibility to implement because it is really very complex, and that it is now spring 2021. We'll also have to gain experience. But I can say in the direction of Mrs Westerveld that if there are any questions in the field that are there, we are also available for that and sit around the table. I will not hesitate to inform the Chamber about solutions as well. I am of the category that I prefer to say "sorry" afterwards for something that ended well but was not entirely according to the rules. That is of course also a bit of the mindset of the people in the field. But in the end, these rules must support them, because they also face situations where they need to know that we, as legislators, as a society, are also behind them. But for that, I really think the evaluation is the right time. Mr. Chairman. I'll try, like you said, to put the turbo on. Mr Kwint referred to the roadmap. He said: if you really want to do a little wrong, then you just stay in that first step, because when you've shut off the gas, you're going to lock the top class and then you can just stay in step one. I don't recognize that. I didn't get any signals about that. If he does, I'd like to hear it. We don't have those signals. It could be in theory, but it's not something we recognize. If it's different, I'd like to hear it. I've already answered other questions in interruptions. Then I come to Mrs Westerveld's questions. I have already discussed some of them in interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u121	I heard the story from the field, but it's good to take it into account. We do not need to say that in detail now. I would have hoped that the Minister, because she said something about it earlier, would continue to dwell on a possible distinction between light and heavy compulsion in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u123	Is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u124	Yeah, I think that's a really good point for the evaluation. Mr Kwint said: lock the top class and then do all those steps with each other all the time, times twenty clients, when it really is about existential questions that you hardly deserve. I think that is a valid point. I would very much like to include that in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u125	Does that mean, because that saves me, or my associate, that we have to look at each other a little bit, write a motion, that we will really go together with client organisations and the care field to see if we can get to such a list of lighter or heavier coercive measures, including a separate regime? Or how am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u126	I say yes, but I will try to confirm this for the second term or the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u128	I'll see if I can get a message about that. Mrs Westerveld asked about the number of figures and facts and thus about the effectiveness of the laws. How many people are involved, and is that taking it away or not? I can't tell you exactly how many people we're talking about right now. We can, of course, give an indication on the basis of the NZa's cost assessment. The number of clients subject to a roadmap is 35,000. That might give us an indication. I have already answered some of Mrs Westerveld's questions in the event of interruption, but I do have an amendment from her on the client confidence person. That is the amendment to item No. 15. Several other Members of Parliament have also raised questions on this subject. I would like to give this amendment a ruling Chamber. A healthcare provider is already obliged by the Health Care and Force Act to inform the client and the representative about the client confidence person. I very much agree with her that it is important that any client who has to deal with involuntary care can go to a client-confidence person. If we can underline this even more and make it even clearer by including in the law that the client needs to be informed, then I very much agree with that and leave the judgment to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Van der Laan's questions. She also said it's only a short while away and asked if the field has enough tools. In any case, we work very closely together, including in the field of training, for example. We have also provided grants to field parties and also actual support through, among other things, the knowledge institute Vilans. I can see that very broad steps are being taken, even though Corona has caused some delay. Mrs Van der Laan also asked about the confluence of the laws with the evaluation of the Wkkgz, the Law BIG and the WGBO. We are indeed involving them in the evaluation of the laws. An important point for people who work in care is whether they can be prosecuted if things go wrong and they deviate from the care plan. If you deviate from the care plan, you basically do it for the benefit of the client. This means that as an employee in healthcare you work in principle as it is in the law as well as it is in the law as it should be a good health care provider. Someone could possibly get into criminal law if they deliberately did not act in the interests of the client, but not just like that. I have already answered the question about the coincidence of the Health and Force Act and the Compulsory ggz Act in response to Mrs Van den Berg's amendment. I now have an amendment by Mr Van der Laan and Mr Van den Berg on BIG registration. I have to take a close look at this, because this amendment adds the requirement that the independent expert who determines the willlessness in this matter is BIG registered. I should like to make this point. 10 dissuade. That does require an explanation, because it sounds very logical that if someone removes something from your freedom, something of it is also registered. But especially in disability care, it is precisely non-BIG registered people who do this. Those aren't just people on the payroll at the institution. It is really orthopedagogic and psychologists who are not BIG-registered, but are, of course, competent in this area. The field itself has developed guidelines for this. On this subject, it is also good to know that when it comes to determining willlessness, it is not just a matter of everything, it is a matter of real concern. So you can be incompetent of lifestyle interventions. You can also be incompetent in terms of: should I have surgery or not? That's two very different things. On the one hand, I would say that it is right that a doctor who is BIG-registered should agree with that, but with regard to a lifestyle intervention, for example, a psychologist could do just fine. If this amendment is adopted, I believe that this will hinder implementation practice. Of course, we have also discussed this with the field. With the exception of the KNMG it was agreed. I would like to give consideration to this reflection to the authors and would advise against the amendment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 14, transforming the external expert into an independent expert. That is an amendment by Mrs Van der Laan and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u129	The new number is 24, I say for the bingo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u130	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, yes. I would also advise against that amendment. I understand that sometimes it's hard for a healthcare provider to find an outside expert. It is a lot of rules for the people in care, but I think it is a very radical proposal, precisely because it was a very conscious choice of the legislator when making the law not to let the expert be employed by the healthcare provider. I know, for example, that Mrs Agema was critical of this and I still think she is. I can see that much is being tried to make it more practical, for example healthcare providers who agree to look at each other. But at the moment I would not like to make such a radical change in the roadmap without having looked at it in detail in the evaluation. What we can do is to extend the list of external experts and those who can act in this way. You can arrange that in lower regulations. I referred to this earlier in the debate, but as far as I am concerned, the external expert is, precisely because he comes from outside the institution, someone who really looks at the client's assessment with an open vision. As a result, it has a real effect on the legal protection side of the balance sheet we are looking for with each other. Also because there is a lot of knowledge sharing, I would advise against this amendment. I have another question about the client confidant, but I think I already answered it when I responded to Mrs. Westerveld. Let me now turn to Mrs Pouw-Verweij's questions. She was the speaker for Mr Kwint, but I am not replying to her until now. Excuse me, I should have done that sooner. Mrs Pouw-Verweij said: do you want to reflect on the letters of criticism we have had? I understand very well that it is said from the care field: if you have the chance to change things, do so. But as I have said a few times, it is also important to check the balance here. We tried to do so as much as we could. The first point in the letter concerns the possibility of bringing clients under the mandatory ggz under the Health and Force Act. I think that we have taken a step forward in the debate on this point, also through Mrs van den Berg's amendment. I did not like to pass that amendment on to Chamber for nothing. The second point in the letter is the external experts. As I have just said, I would like to propose extending the list of external experts. The amendment that has been tabled on this point has just been dissuaded by reference to the debate. Point three deals with the broad coincidence between the Health and Force Act and the mandatory ggz. That is a very important issue in the evaluation. I just have to be honest about the fact that there are no simple solutions to this. Point four is an important point and concerns the exchange of information. We have heard the field very well and we are going to look into that point when we go to that evaluation. For point five, I refer to my response to the SGP and D66 amendments to simplify the assessment criteria for healthcare professionals. There too, we are happy to respond to what the field has said, and that is why I also gave that amendment a ruling Chamber. Point 6 is the signal about the enforcement of the judicial authorisation. We have deliberately kept them out of the judicial framework, but I think it is right to point out that I want to talk to the field about this. I would therefore like to make a commitment that I will try to find a solution with the field. Mr President, I believe I have answered your Chamber's questions in this way, otherwise I am happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u131	Very good. Thank you. This was the first deadline and perhaps there is a need for a second deadline for Members. I give the floor to Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u132	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u133	You have the floor. I would like the second deadline to be as short and pointy as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u134	Thank you to the rulers for the answers. I have two motions. I have indicated in my contribution that the CDA has often advocated a better balance between the interests of patients/client and the interests of society and victims in the field of medical professional secrecy. We read in the note following the report that the Secretary of State now sees no reason to introduce a legal basis for the exchange of information. In doing so, he calls on medical professional secrecy, even though in practice we often see that this is a problem. That's what my first motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the law on compulsory ggz and law on care and compulsion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients is being evaluated this year;]] [[noting that medical professional secrecy may be broken in the event of force majeure or conflict of duties in order to avoid serious harm;]] [[Whereas practical evidence shows that medical professional secrecy sometimes interferes with the interests of victims and society;]] [[Whereas a legal basis to provide more information would be desirable both in the Wvggz and Wzd;]] [[invites the Government to explicitly examine in the evaluation whether a legal basis to provide more information in the Compulsory ggz Act and the Care and Force Act should be one of the legal possibilities, and to advise the Chamber in the evaluation on how this could be done,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Van den Hil.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u135	For the second one I have to put on my other glasses, because it is too small printed for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u136	How many glasses do you have with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u137	I only have two, Mr. Chairman. It's about the Forensic Care Act, as I mentioned in my speech. On the one hand, we say very clearly that care is not a punishment. At the moment when a judge decides that someone should be given care, it is strange that the judge should be involved in the termination of that care after that. But the other side of the matter is that I see in working visits. I handed over a flyer to the Secretary of State last year on the occasion of such a work visit that people who are included in the ggz under that title can often also show behavior that is unacceptable; that has nothing to do with their illness, but with the behaviour. Then there is really no protection for the people who work there. They just have to take care of someone the next day who's been whacking them the day before, to name but a few. We are very concerned about this. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion associated psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients and should not interfere with each other;]] [[noting that the Spiritual Health Care Act and the Forensic Care Act are also interrelated and should strengthen each other, but should not interfere with each other;]] [[noting that the present repair law also affects forensic care;]] [[Whereas field parties identify a number of problems such as unwanted legal mix-up and that Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act introduces a new provision to remove Article 37 from the Code of Criminal Law;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the impact of this repair law on forensic care, to what extent the law on mandatory ggz and the law on forensic care are working against each other in the implementation, to involve the field of care and forensic care, and to inform the House of Representatives about this in the evaluation of the law on mandatory ggz and law on care and coercion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u139	Then we will listen to Mr Van der Staaij of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will confine my reflections to the legislative proposal before us. This is about simplifying and adapting two laws that we have discussed today. The special thing is that it is, of course, already in some way pre-empting an evaluation. Normally, you say it all comes with an evaluation. I noticed that at least the by-catch of today's debate was to get a little more focus from which themes you now hear from the practice that they should also get a good deal of attention during an evaluation. However, I am glad that we can make important improvements and simplifications with this legislative proposal today, although there will be some discussion here and there as to whether you should decide whether it is better to wait a little longer. But at least thanks for the willingness to say on various subjects already: if we look at the letter from the field parties, we think that there is also an additional adjustment and simplification possible. In this respect, I would also like to thank the Minister for the positive response of the amended original amendment to item No. 13, that is to say, Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that Amendment No 13, that 25 is, and for the commitment to the theme of the external expert or independent expert, may it also be from within or should it always be from outside? To be taken into account in the evaluation. There is, of course, another amendment by Mrs van der Laan which I have tabled. If that is not the case, then it is important that this is looked at in depth during the evaluation. Finally, Mr President. When it comes to evaluation, I would like to say that with all the discussions that have taken place recently... I mean the discussions on child care payments and the like: do we have sufficient involvement as a Chamber in the implementation? This seems to me to be a very important evaluation which has such a broad meaning that it is a good thing that we as a Chamber are well involved, that we should not limit this to consultation if there is a cabinet position, but that we should also discuss this more closely with each other in contact with practice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you. Then Mrs van den Hil from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everything is fresh and fruity again. I would like to thank the rulers for their comprehensive response, which, I think, also does justice to what we are here for today: freedom. I have missed one thing in the feedback: my question about the fact that the government recognizes that crisis measures need to be regularly extended. Maybe we can get back to that. Or I missed it myself, then that's my omission. I welcome the Minister's commitment to further research into the costs involved. That does mean that a motion will lapse, but that is actually good news. Then there is another motion for me, which is about the part that I want to know about the rapid identification of the problem of immediate cessation of aid in the case of forced withdrawal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the government indicated in Question Time of 18 May that it would start to find out to what extent financial support would be discontinued after a forced admission and how municipalities would in practice provide financial support to ggz patients after a forced admission;]] [[Whereas in response to Question Time, care organisations indicate that in a number of cases, the assistance to ggz clients after a patient's admission has been discontinued as a matter of urgency;]] [[calls on the government and municipalities to identify the extent and causes of problems in the financial support of ggz patients following a coercion, to include the recently reported cases and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Hil, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Van der Laan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you. Then Mrs. Chicken. Oh, there is another question from Mr Kwint. Then you'll have to take off your cap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u145	I have good hope that I can understand it as well, you know. I'm curious what you want the cabinet to investigate now. I think it was said during Question Time: we are going to take this with us, we are going to include it in the Participation Act. I believe that Secretary of State Blokhuis has just said that there will be a letter from Minister Koolmees before the vote on Tuesday, in which he will also comment on the amendment tabled. By the way, you are still welcome to stand underneath. That open invitation still stands. What more information is needed before you can make an assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u146	For me, the amendment goes too far at the moment, because we do not have a picture: what is going to go wrong, what is the time when it is going to go wrong in stopping, in converting it into special assistance, in how many cases does it happen and how do we get a view of it? I really want to know before I can think further about the further steps that need to be taken. They will then have to be included in the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u147	Surely it doesn't really matter how many cases we're dealing with here? It doesn't matter if we're helping five people who are forced into the hospital, or 50, or 500, or 5,000. If there are very few, it is still a relatively cheap operation and then the government is cheap out. Surely we have a chance here to improve something concrete for a group of people, regardless of whether there are many or few? Then why should we make that dependent on research into how many there are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u148	I think we're on two separate tracks. I just want to know where that goes wrong in the immediate transposition. I am concerned with the immediate cessation. What's to be done? What goes wrong that doesn't turn it into special assistance? How come that doesn't get picked up? Where do things have to be changed? That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u149	Clear. Thank you. We're going to see Mrs. Chicken of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. It's kind of the oldest trick in the book: tabling a motion not to have to support another amendment. From my role as an old-timer in the Chamber, I would like to say to the new Chamber: either you support it or you do not support it, but let us not use motions to avoid supporting amendments. There may well be compelling reasons why you can't support it, for example because you simply don't have political majority or coalition support. But that aside. Forgive me for this grumpy interval. I just wanted to say thank you for the answers. Some things have convinced me, I think. On other points I am really still thinking and chewing about it. I actually take Mr Van der Staaij's appeal to heart. Because if the evaluation is there and we are probably going to amend this law again, I also need to do it a little more carefully and precisely. And finally, Mr President. I got another app from Roderick, a partymate. Who it is doesn't matter; he's a very involved man. He says, "Don't forget this is about people." It was a lot about technique. That's why I found the emotion of Mrs. Agema and others here so right. They say quite clearly: this is about something, namely about compulsion, urge and about people who can happen to this, about people who may have been having problems for some time. But also very healthy people can end up in psychosis, or in a situation where they have to deal with urge or compulsion. We always have to realize that. So I think it's a good thing that Roderick pushed me into it for a while. Perhaps the votes will not take place next week, but a week later. That would at least give us time to look very closely and critically at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you. I call Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom. In principle, the votes are just Tuesday, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u152	The Secretary of State has indicated that he may need a little more than a week for that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u153	Let me clarify this. I can just vote next week, but there's still a letter to be sent. If that makes it a week later, I don't necessarily have a problem with that. That is my point: no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u154	It is. The Secretary of State has promised a very comprehensive letter from the Minister for Social Affairs in response to Mr Kwint's amendment. That, of course, makes Mrs Van den Hil's motion superfluous, because that commitment has been made long and wide. And, of course, I expect the Secretary of State at VWS to say that Mrs Van den Hil's motion is superfluous. Otherwise we will have four more of those very annoying years in which opposition proposals are cast into motions by a coalition that is actually not there at the moment, even though a letter has already been promised. It's annoying. I think this motion is superfluous. I really hope the Secretary of State says the same thing, Mr. Chairman. A little discipline can never hurt. I am still not quite clear on what I am going to advise my group on the legislative amendments before us. So I'm gonna think about that. The same applies to the amendments. I say to Mrs van den Berg: I have just read that amendment, and so I had read it wrong and now see what her intention is. I am referring to the amendment tabled in part No. 10 stood. However, I find it difficult that the doctor no longer assesses the willlessness. Mrs van den Berg's proposal is therefore a'second best' in terms of what it was like, but I think that the old variant was the best one. So I'm going to think about that amendment too. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that when it becomes time for compulsive care for the early dementing elderly who still live at home, it is time for a protected living environment;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that forced care at home becomes an indicator for inclusion in a healthcare institution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that compulsive care can be avoided in the case of adequately qualified staff, thereby reducing the administrative burden;]] [[calls on the Government to provide sufficient resources to enable nursing homes to comply with the Quality Framework for Nursing Care for sufficient and qualified staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-29]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u155	I have a question about the first motion, about when there is coercion at home. In my opinion, the decision now states care and compulsion that at the moment when such a thing is discussed, you have to face the question of whether a recording is not indicated. That's how it's legal now. What would Mrs. Agema want or want more than that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u156	Now the legal framework for coercive care is in place at home. I therefore believe that this should not be considered, because it should be the shortcut. If you're going to close the gas at a dementing, lock the door, apply the tables and completely in the situation that there's coercive care and the person doesn't want it, because that's what coercive care is natural: the person doesn't want it, then you have to assume a protected living environment anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u157	Now the idea is that it should be discussed at least at the moment when coercive care is at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u159	However, Mrs Agema says that even in the lightest form of compulsion, it is essential that someone should be included. Well, that's kind of a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yes, but you have to bear in mind that the person concerned doesn't want it. That demented gentleman doesn't want the door shut when the employee leaves. Compulsion is that people don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u161	Yeah, but I also know people who don't want to be admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u162	Yeah, but yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u163	And who also do not want a measure at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u164	No. The dilemmas in this area are beyond us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u165	Exactly. That is why my question is: what exactly does Mrs Agema want with regard to the present situation, the norm to at least think about it at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u166	At least I don't want people to stay home alone in the event of coercive measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u167	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Laan of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thanks to the cabinet for the comprehensive response. I've got a few more questions I'd like to ask you. I want to start with the BIG registration. You gave the example of the disabled sector. Then the next question arises to me. Sometimes this is found by a non-BIG-registered person. Doesn't it happen according to the law now? That's my question. Isn't it better to wait for the evaluation and still choose our intermediate solution? Because you are proposing a far-reaching proposal. I would also like to reiterate that we welcome the commitment to look at the convergence of laws and to take them into account in the evaluation. I do not think I have yet received a very clear answer to my question about a well-functioning portal, so that obligations can happen without many administrative acts. I would like a brief response to that. The Secretary of State has indicated that the evaluation is ready in mid-summer next year. I had asked what would be the lead time of the laws after the evaluation. When does VWS start working on that? Besides, I have a motion. I also asked questions about the letter terror. A patient can get up to 20 contact moments. I'd like to make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there may be a total of more than 20 mandatory ggz within the Act when patients are informed in writing;]] [[having noted that the Health and Youth Inspectorate indicated in December 2020 that the many letters and administrative burdens on clients have an impact on their legal position;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the review of the mandatory ggz Act the extent to which administrative obligations for clients, including the amount of correspondence, contribute negatively to their legal position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Laan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that for the first time in my time as a Member of Parliament, I can honestly say that I am looking forward to an evaluation. Usually I get a little tired of the amount of evaluations and monitoring we are subjecting ourselves to, but there are a few nice questions ready for the cabinet to answer. I also think that there are some good challenges to improving things. What you see throughout the debate is that a very complicated, legally complex law constantly clashes with the importance of reality in the workplace and with how to enable professionals to do their job as much as possible and how to protect vulnerable people as well as possible. We'll find out. That's not just a matter of putting it on paper. That is also a question of cross-compliance. Whether it is the Health and Force Act at home, too few evaluators or the shortage of treatment places and staff in the ggz: you constantly see that vulnerable people get stuck between legislation and reality in the workplace. It is therefore the responsibility of all of us to try to do something about both. I am therefore very much looking forward to the letter from next Friday on the elaboration of my motion to increase salaries in health care. There is a problem with the amount of customer confidence available, but the problem is also that the sector indicates that there are a lot of unclear guidelines and that there are considerable differences between healthcare providers. That is why I make the following proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that healthcare providers are obliged to arrange for each client or his representative to have a client-confidence person;]] [[Considering that there are several signals from the healthcare sector that the guidelines are unclear about the use of clients' trusts, which makes the involvement of these persons in healthcare providers different;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the guidelines and tasks of the use of client confidants and to implement them legally in the review of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u170	Then I also had a motion to include in that evaluation at least the possibility of moving from two laws to one law. But since I hate unnecessary motions and the Minister has already promised them, I do not have to submit them. I'm still trying to find out whether we're in agreement or not about the light and heavy compulsion. I shall therefore table a motion on this, and if the Minister says that we agree, I shall withdraw that motion with a loud laugh. I hope we can come up with a solution, however complicated it may be to put something on paper about the difference between the classroom and the coercive medicine. The attention that goes to one is at the expense of the attention that you can give to the other. I do not believe that this is in the interests of the staff and is not in the interests of vulnerable people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a roadmap is correctly followed when imposing involuntary care;]] [[believes that in light coercive measures, it is sometimes perceived as bureaucratic to follow the roadmap over and over again;]] [[considers that the roadmap should be followed at all times in the event of severe coercive measures;]] [[calls on the Government to identify with relevant healthcare organisations whether it is possible to agree on lighter and heavier coercion and to develop these two separate procedures, and to involve them in the forthcoming review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u171	Finally, the amendment on the Participation Act. What can I say? There's more to it. The registration is still open. In our view, this can really improve the situation of a vulnerable group of people, which should once again help you to take a step in society. For God's sake, let us not table motions purely as an excuse to finally vote against an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u172	People are lining up to sign with us, Mr. Quint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u173	Before I sign the motion, I have one more question. Do we have everything in sight? I find it extremely sympathetic and appealing to everyone, but what I remember from Question Time was that it was said at the time: bear in mind that people are being compensated for certain costs for their daily lives, especially in the institution itself. My question is how this has been taken into account. Otherwise it would be an increase in income, and in my opinion we mean that it should not stove backwards. Has there been any technical consideration of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u174	Yeah, that's what we've been looking at. The same applies, of course, to the situation in which special assistance can be claimed. That problem already exists in the present. But it is indeed a complicated consideration to see exactly how to shape that. In any case, we do not want the outcome to be as it is today, namely that if you finally walk out the door again and you find, for example, a reluctant municipality that has a somewhat sober arrangement for special assistance, you will immediately be confronted with a huge rent debt or home expulsion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u175	Fine, thank you. Then Mrs Pouw-Verweij of the JA group21. We'd like to receive your motion, Mr. Kwint. Otherwise, we can't vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u176	My questions have been answered sufficiently. Thank you for that. So I'd like to waive the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u177	That's great. That's what more people should do. I call Mrs Westerveld. She's the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, and then we're gonna take a break. Then we're gonna listen to the two rulers. I call Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While we are holding this debate, I was reminded that another GGZ emergency response was closed last Friday. Of course, that does not have much to do with this debate, but it does touch on the core of what we are talking about today. If people do not get the right help and are on waiting lists, or if they need to be taken care of and there is no place, then at some point things go wrong if you have serious mental problems. Too often this leads to the need for a form of forced admission, or for coercive treatment. That is, of course, what we were talking about today, namely the right of self-determination of persons on the one hand and the duty of care on the other. This law was about how you manage that well on paper, but we see in practice that it goes far too often because of the staff shortages. As a result, this is at least what I think too often used coercion, which should not be necessary at all if at an early stage just the right help was offered. I keep finding that a complicated dilemma, and I hear it from several people here. I also have a motion on the evaluation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be an evaluation on the law mandatory ggz and the law care and coercion;]] [[Whereas both caregivers and patients currently qualify both laws as insufficient;]] [[considers that both laws are at odds between the importance of self-determination and the duty of care of the government;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the evaluation how often coercion is used and to forward a historical annual review to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the consequences of coercion on patients in the ggz and to identify how coercion can be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35667-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u179	I have one more question about an amendment that I have tabled. This is about reducing the age again from 16 years to 12 years for the self-binding declaration. The Secretary of State said: I reject the amendment, actually because we do not have any very substantive changes in this law... I paraphrase a bit. He actually said to me, "Let's save it." But as a result of the legislative amendment we are discussing, it is true that a provision, namely the fourth paragraph of Article 4:1, will lapse. It provides for representatives to be involved in drawing up the declaration of self-binding in children aged between 16 and 12. So that's out of date. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State to state in substance why he is dissuading our amendment, or rather why he would like to give the Chamber's ruling. Very nice. I'm also pleased with the positive judgment of our client confidant. I think it is very important that they are there and that they can do good work, but also that clients are actively reminded of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. I'll suspend for ten minutes, is that enough? Should we say 4:35 p.m.? We'll do our best, that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u181	I call the Secretary of State. We still have a few moments left when the letter from SZW and yourself comes, because if it comes a little later, then we should vote not next Tuesday but next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u182	(NL) Mr President, starting immediately on that point: I do not know on what day the Minister of Social Affairs has finished that letter, but assuming that it is going to be a very serious appreciation, I can imagine that the Chamber would at least have seen the letter before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u183	Then we should consider doing the vote a week later. Shall we establish that in this regard? I look at the Chamber and everyone nods yes, so we vote on the law, the motions and the amendments not next Tuesday but a week later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u184	Fine. May I begin, Mr. Chairman? I'm going to pass the motions that lie on my property first. That's five. Mr Van Ark then takes the remaining four motions, so that we have commented on all nine of them. I also have a few questions to ask, including an amendment by Mr Westerveld. The first motion is by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Van den Hil. It's very simple: Judgement Room. The motion in part No. 27 deals with the interconnection of criminal law and civil law. That's a little more complicated. I think that the first petitioner, Mrs van den Berg, is referring in the only consideration to the matter that I have said I can imagine that the Minister for Legal Protection is sending a letter on this, so about that Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act. That is not in the operative part of the request, but let us agree that I ask the Minister for Legal Protection to send a letter to the Chamber on this matter. That's that point. With what's underneath, the operative part, I can largely live. However, I think the first point has already been raised: how do we involve forensic care in the two laws we are specifically discussing today? Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection, has been involved in the preparation of the bill. That's hooked up here. What are the consequences? Literally zero, because there are no cross-links now. The second part of the operative part concerns the question of whether we should not talk about cross-linking and the inclusion of this question in the evaluation. If I may read the operative part in this way, I shall look Mrs van den Berg straight in the eyes, it is fine as far as I am concerned, and then it is up to the Chamber to decide. But I think the first part has already happened. That alignment has already taken place. The thought is that it found zero because there's no link.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u185	If the first part happened, I'll take it from the Secretary of State. What we are particularly concerned about is the position of the people who work in the ggz. How can they work there safely? The situation leaves much to be desired. That is why we consider this coordination to be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u186	Again, there will be a letter on Article 2.3. At least that is what I am going to discuss with the Minister for Legal Affairs. The broader scope, the cooperation under all three of these important laws, will be involved in the evaluation. Judge Chamber, in that light, if we may read the motion in that manner. I think Mrs van den Berg agrees on this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 28 of the members Van den Hil, Van den Berg and Van der Laan, or Mrs Van den Hil cum suis. That is a bit exciting, because this motion deals with the financial situation of people who are being forced to take care. I do not know whether the proposers are merely referring to assistance. Then the suspicion of Mr Kwint and Mrs Agema is correct that a letter will be sent on 3 June. If the operative part is broader, the entire financial position of people who are subject to a forced regime, then it requires a broader investigation. If I have to read the motion in this way, I can see the author already coming forward, President-in-Office of the Council, as far as I am concerned, it is the Court of Justice's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u187	That's how you should read the motion. It is not just the piece of assistance or the question of how many there are. As Mr Kwint said, are there 5 or 5 000? That would be important to me. I want to know what's behind it. If it's 5, something has gone terribly wrong that we just have to look at, but if it's 5,000, there's a very big gap in our system. I'd like to be in front of it as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u188	Yes. Okay, I've given my appreciation, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna jump to the motion at piece number one. 31, because the intervening motions are the responsibility of Mr Van Ark. In that motion, Mrs Van der Laan puts her finger on the twenty moments of the law. It points out the negative effects on the legal situation. I think this is a very nice motion, but I would like to read the operative part in such a way that it concerns the procedural workload that the laws entail. In my first term, I tried to point out that the healthcare providers themselves are already looking at procedural changes within the legal margins. They're looking at what's already possible. If there is still a lot of pressure due to the laws, then that must indeed be taken into account. I assume that is also in line with the interpretation given by the author. If that's the case, I'd be happy to give the motion judgment Chamber as an appreciation. I see the petitioner nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u189	That has then been established. You've nodded, Mrs. Van der Laan. That's a state-law fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u190	How did that happen in the Acts? Then the motion to part No. 35 by Mrs Westerveld. I think that is a sympathetic motion, but I would like to read it in a certain way, namely in line with the intention of the law. We cannot, of course, say that after two years that objective has been met. They're such hard projects. It's a tanker we want to change course. If I may read this motion in line with the intention of the law, I shall give her judgment Chamber. I still owe the Chamber a few answers to the questions asked. Mrs Van der Laan rightly repeated her question as to what exactly is the process after the evaluation. I thought I had gone into that briefly. I'll do that a little bit more pointy. The evaluation was completed as well in the summer of 2022. This must create a whole pile of ammunition together, which will enable us to see, in consultation with all the parties involved, whether it is appropriate to amend the laws. We don't want to waste any time on that. We don't want to waste a minute. So we're gonna pick that up right now. In fact, I think that even after the first instalment of the evaluation, which will be delivered in December, we can see if there are things that could give rise to the amendment of the law on points. But as soon as possible after the review, which the Chamber will of course receive, we will amend the law to meet the objective that we all have in mind here: an enforceable law in the interest of very vulnerable patients. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Van der Laan's question about a well-functioning portal. I also said in my first term that we are working on these three tracks through legislation. That's what we're talking about all day today. The second track is drawing up simpler letters and making sure you don't overload people with letters. Mrs Van der Laan has also tabled an excellent motion on this. The third track is indeed the digital link. At the moment, the chain parties are investigating what the supply of chain information might look like. It looks at the digital communication between all parties in the chain of the mandatory ggz Act. That's got the full attention. Parties try to solve this as beautifully as possible. That's the answer to that question. Mr. Chairman. I will go into Mrs Westerveld's amendment in a moment, but first of all I will come to Mrs Van den Hil's question. She talked about the fact that crisis measures are often prolonged. This is due to the fact that we are dealing with a new law. We see that the number of measures in general may be roughly equal to the number mentioned under the BOPZ Act, which was in force until 2019. We initially saw more crisis measures in a kind of transition situation. Gradually we see more care permissions. We find that a logical explanationable reflex in a new law of this importance. For example, we also see peaks in the summer period. That's standard. But that's the answer to that question. Monitoring will show how these figures are going to develop. We will also look at this process in the evaluation. So on two fronts we are going to take a very careful look at this. Finally, I come to Mrs Westerveld's amendment to item No. 20. She has a point when she says: the Secretary of State has only dealt with it procedurally; now it is content. For us as a cabinet, this weighs a lot. I had advised against the amendment for procedural reasons. I understand what Mrs Westerveld is saying. Only, there is an important reason why we do what we do, or why we advise against it. The minimum age of 16 years is linked to the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. 16 years is also the minimum age. The age limit proposed by Mrs Westerveld is linked to juvenile criminal law. But that's not what this is about. This is a matter of concern. We want to be very consistent and to be consistent with existing health legislation, in which 16 years is the starting point. In addition to a procedural argument, this is also a substantive argument to discourage this amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thanks to the Secretary of State. One more question from Mrs Westerveld. Short and pointy, because I really want to end it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u192	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. It's nice that the Secretary of State makes a point of substance. We are looking to ensure that young people themselves are able to make those agreements, because they themselves quite often understand what they need. That is why my question is: can this not be reason enough to lower the age of 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u193	I understand the question, but I would suggest to Mrs Westerveld that in other relevant social legislation the minimum age is 16 years. Then that really is a broader discussion than that we are now putting here by means of amendments to the compulsory ggz Act. Then, as far as I am concerned, we need to broaden this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u194	Clear. Thank you. We're gonna listen to the minister. You have the floor. It's okay to be short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few comments and a few more motions. Mrs Van der Laan asked about the BIG registration. A little staccato. In the current law, i.e. before the repair law, it is always done by a doctor not directly involved in the care. It's the law's job. This leads to problematic situations, because a lot of decisions are about what time someone should go to bed or turn off the computer. To this end, the field has developed a directive. It has said that this can also be done by psychologists or orthopedagogics. The sector doesn't really flow from doctors, to say the least. Because that fits in with the practice, the repair proposal lies ahead. This is also supported by the client organisations. That is the situation on the ground. Mr Kwint asked about the different regimes. Let me be clear, because I also want to be open, I note that this is obviously part of the evaluation. We'll see if it works to go from one to two regimes. I do not think that there should be a whole chapter on whether it should be a single regime, but I do think that the evaluation contains building blocks so that Mr Kwint can draw a conclusion from that. But let me get this straight. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema's motion on item No. 29 I advise against the debate with reference to the debate. Mrs Agema's motion on item No. 30. We will. I think it would be a good idea to mark that one more time. This motion I give judgment Chamber. Mr Kwint's motion for a resolution 32 is about the client confidant. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. Mr Kwint's 33th report deals with light and heavy forms of care. This motion may be withdrawn. We do want to involve this issue in the legislative review. Referring to the legal treatment, no distinction has been deliberately made between light and heavy care. For one the computer has to take off heavy, while for the other lock the door is very heavy. I think it is important to discuss this with the representatives of the providers and the organisations. If Mr Kwint wishes to put the motion to the vote, I can give this judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u196	Clear. You've got it in the pocket, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u197	Twice today, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u198	Yeah, it's his day. Yet he still wants to stand by the interrupting microphone. Let's do it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u199	We're going from highlight to highlight today, Mr. Chairman. I know what the Minister's saying. The reason why no distinction has been made in the various forms of coercion goes all the way back to the old legal treatment. But now we have this law. We hear from many quarters that we may have devised one regime with the best intention in terms of coercion, but that in practice this leads to even too little attention being paid to heavy forms of coercion and too much to light forms of coercion. Would the Minister like to discuss that problem and see if she can come up with something like that with the field? If that doesn't work, we'll get it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u200	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u201	Then I can withdraw the motion. What number was it? It was that beautiful handwritten motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u202	Then you have so practiced on your handwriting and then we withdraw that motion again!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u203	It was my associate's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u204	Oh, I thought you'd write nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u205	That's right. I'm writing a lot worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u206	Since the Quint motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-8.u207	Once again, we are voting not on Tuesday but on the following week on the law, the amendments and the motions. Thank you very much. I'm suspending until 5:05 p.m. Then we have the next two-minute debate. So far.
