ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. The next item is the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u2	I will give the floor to the Minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to be the first of my colleagues to say here: I thought last year would be the last time I dealt with a budget here. It's okay to do it again. It is also very nice to do, because there is enough to do and it is a wonderful subject to talk about. It is also a debate with many new spokesmen this year. That also brings new dynamics. I also congratulate Mrs Van der Woude on her maiden speech yesterday. Mr. Chairman. Although the budget of OCW is poor in policy, it has grown by over 4 billion, so it is not entirely poor in policy. That growth in the OCW budget is of course very nice. Part of it is occasional, but also structuralally we see a rise in it. But we're not there yet. There's still a lot to do. There are still a lot of big challenges. Some of you made that statement yesterday, and rightly so. But in the meantime, of course, there is also a formation going on and we are outgoing. That also sometimes means something for the answers I can give. I understand that's a little frustrating for you now and then, but it's no different now and then. In the meantime, of course, we're not on our hands. I told you, the budget has grown considerably. We are busy, for example, implementing the National Education Programme. There's a lot to be done there. I'm also looking at the agreement on teacher training. We're busy flexibilising it so that side-intromers are better operated. Think also of making the pabo more attractive for students who come from the MBO or the HAVO. But also think of a theme such as knowledge security, which we are working very hard on. I shall come back to that in more detail later. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Corona also plays a key role in our policy. We had hoped last year that we would have another autumn this year. It's no different. And yet there is a very substantial difference with last year, which makes me stand here with a different mind. Physical education is now largely continuing. And that's incredibly important. Students do not have to hope, like last year, only for the return of those physical lessons and contact with their fellow students. Those lessons continue and that contact is there. Of course, mouth caps still have to be worn. The group size in higher education is still equally limited, but education remains open. That's incredibly important. Let us all ensure that education remains open. For we saw last week, and I shall go into this in more detail later, which means closing education for the mental well-being of young people. That's why I say to students themselves: get vaccinated and do self-tests. We're still providing them for free. And observe the basic rules. With each other, you can also make sure that we can keep the education open. Mr. Chairman. There is a lot to do about whether or not to use corona tickets in MBO and higher education. That's what we're gonna talk about next week in this house. I am already saying that these are separate considerations whether we will do it in MBO or in higher education. In the MBO, for example, you also talk about qualified students. Let me be very clear: I think it is a very nasty measure. But with what I've seen over the past year, I think we should consider this very well. If this is really the last means that we can use to keep education open, I choose to keep education open. Let's get that straight. We're going to have that debate next week. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into a number of themes, I would like to indicate the order in which the different themes are addressed. Then you can estimate when to pay attention. I'm gonna start with the mental well-being of students, maybe because that's my biggest concern these days, and the corona-related topics. My second theme is science, where it is about investing in science, academic freedom and the security of scientists. Next, I will deal with internationalisation and knowledge security. Then I'll get to the VET block. Next, I will focus on teacher training and equality of opportunity. Then I've got a little cube of varia. Finally, I will give an appreciation to the amendments that have been tabled. I'll start with the mental health of students. I don't do that for nothing. Last week, we were able to read in the studies that have been brought out how hard students have had in the period when they only received online education. That led to stress, loneliness and pressure. It makes a very heavy change on the mental health of all those thousands of students in our country. I really like to think about this a little bit longer. I talk to students and teachers every week, and then I just ask them how they're doing. Students will tell you what they're up against, what's tricky, what they need. I also notice every time how difficult young people are to cope with the enormous pressure of performance that is not only in education but in our entire society. They have to keep a lot of balls in the air, no matter what they often think of themselves. They need to study. They have to have an administrative function. They want a job. They need a good résumé. They're supposed to be happy on Instagram every day. They have to participate in everything. You also notice that the pressure that young people impose on themselves is really very heavy for some people. That is why I indicated last week with Mr Blokhuis that we should also look at a preventive approach to the mental health of young people. And that goes wider than education alone. In the research done by RIVM, GGD GHOR Nederland and the Trimbos Institute, we were shown in black and white that 51% of students suffer from psychological complaints, anxiety and gloom, which a significant part of them sometimes have questions about fatigue. And that's alarming. We really need to get to work on that as soon as possible. Of course Corona plays a major role in this but pressure and stress were already great before that time. Again, that physical education for students is really incredibly important. Then it's not just about physical education in the lecture hall but also about getting together on campus; it's also about having fun together, meeting new people and getting new insights. The stress complaints that we already saw for corona with students fit in a list that we have known for some time and that we really want to get rid of in higher education. That is the line of work pressure, efficiency thinking, performance agreements, competition and publication pressure. It's all a lot of pressure that we really have to change, but this was the foundation of the system I found when I became a minister. It's a foundation that you didn't just spin, but it's a foundation that we now see isn't doing a lot of people any good. Students, teachers and researchers suffer from it. From the beginning of my presidency, I have tried to change that. That is not easy and it cannot always be done with one big blow. There isn't one button you need to turn. This is really a process that's going to take us a long time. But we must continue to take these steps together. These are also the themes of the strategic agenda. Working together instead of competing. Fortunately, we are now seeing much more cooperation between institutions, for example in higher education. Give space to settings instead of just checking them all the time. And trust instead of payment. But also for students: student success, focus your policy on the success of the individual student rather than thinking in terms of return; that student must pass through the system as soon as possible. No, that student must be able to be successful in his or her life. And we don't make performance agreements anymore, we make quality agreements. I see a lot of good examples in this area throughout the country. I am thinking, for example, of the steps being taken to recognise and appreciate academic work differently. That really is a huge cultural change. And no longer be paid for your publications alone, but also for your leadership, your teaching commitment, your work in a team. I have already mentioned something like the binding study advice as a source of pressure on students. You know my position in that discussion. In the corona time, we dealt with it more flexibly. Many institutions have simply failed to apply or significantly relax the BSA. I think we should learn from that. It's one of those points from the corona time where we can also see if we can learn anything from it. What did it bring? Because we do see, despite all the difficulties, that the delay in higher education among students is not that bad. It's mostly in practice. At this moment we also evaluate this kind of space that we have given in the corona time. This evaluation will take place in spring 2022. Then we can see if there are things in this that we have learned to improve the system. I am thinking of a discussion that we had here last year in the budget with Mr Van der Molen, whom I hope to see soon again, about the flow standard. Windesheim University of Applied Sciences applied it. No longer use the BSA as a hard turn to send away students, but as a smart tool to better guide students on the road to success. I see in particular that a number of colleges really go further along that road and I find that an interesting thought. We shall therefore continue to do so in the evaluation of the corona measures. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, there are also more buttons that can be turned firmly in the coming years to get the pressure off the kettle. That'll go one step at a time. This will take time, but we have taken a number of steps in the right direction in recent years. And there are things that a new cabinet will have to look at. And again, it won't be one magical action that changes it all. It is a harsh matter with many causes. And it is not only the government that is making this move, but also the institutions themselves. One of the pain points for students is, for example, the design of the academic year which can lead to stress. I had a very interesting conversation about this with De Jonge Akademie, who wonders: can we not organise that academic year differently, so that it leads to less stress for both teachers and students? To less peak moments, for example. The Dutch academic year is longer than in many of the countries around us. We have to have the courage to look at that. So on many fronts there can be a contribution to getting some pressure off that boiler from students and teachers. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of mental well-being, there were also a few questions from your chamber about the investigation. Mr Wassenberg, but also Mrs Gündoğan and Mrs Westerveld asked how we are going to proceed with this report. What we are going to do in the short term and what the researchers are going to do is also, together with the GGD, make further analyses, for example by institution and by region, to see if we can see interesting differences there and see what we can learn from them. Me and my department want to talk to the investigators. When I read the research, I still had a lot of questions about how the relationship works and how it interacts. We also want to talk to the institutions and student organisations about it in order to come up with an agenda of steps that you can take to improve the well-being of students. As far as I am concerned, this is also about the pressure that young people impose on themselves. What can we do in the preventive sphere, but also for extra guidance from students? Of course, we are doing this in part. In the context of NPO, there are additional resources in MBO and higher education for the guidance of students, but it is also included in quality agreements, for example. Those are all brackets that allow us to think further about mental well-being. In this context, Mr Paternotte and Mr De Hoop asked about the balance between digital and physical education. Mr Paternotte explains that in debates often I do not know the order exactly as eat, zoom, drag, repeat. Your order is something else, but you can repeat it endlessly in any order. Of course, that doesn't paint a cheerful picture for students. You are both quite right when you say that you have to think about a good balance between digital education and physical education. Digital education can also have added value, can also add value, but you always have to do it in a good balance. I just mentioned the evaluation we're going to do of the corona period. That evaluation will be available in the spring. It will always be difficult to find a one size fits all here for all studies and all training courses, but you need to be able to achieve a digital vision with this experience. How do we deal with the possibilities, but also the limitations of digital education? What can we give the institutions to consider frameworks? On the basis of the evaluation, I would like to work with the educational umbrella and the institutions, but also with student organisations, on how we can achieve a balanced vision. So you were right to raise that question. Mr. Chairman. I want to move on to the science block. I would like to start with the question raised by Mr De Hoop. He asked me: Minister, if you were to reflect, what would you possibly have done differently? I come to the Lisbon objective, on which you also had another question. I believe you also have an amendment on it. At its start, some time ago, this cabinet invested 400 million additional structuralally in science to keep that objective in sight. This is not enough to achieve the Lisbon objective. Looking back, I would have liked to get closer, because that is in the interest of science, but, as Mrs Gündoğan rightly said, it is also very important for the locational climate in the Netherlands. I was also pleased that she said: let the Minister of Education also join the debate on the locational climate. It is also important for the attraction we have to young scientists, and often also for the attractiveness of many regions. I was in Limburg last week, where I was allowed to open the Einstein Telescope Pathfinder. That is a substantial investment we made there, fortunately with broad support from the Chamber. There is still plenty of construction going on, but you can see that this is already attracting national and international scientists to the south of the Netherlands. This means that Maastricht University now has a department of physics, which attracts many students. If we're going to do that very interesting gravitational wave research there, you don't have to ask me how that works. We can get breakthroughs. We're really gonna do top of the bill research. I hope the Einstein Telescope actually gets there. The application was submitted to the Growth Fund. We are going to put something that is very attractive for the location climate of that region, but ultimately also for the whole of the Netherlands. We also saw that in Nijmegen, where the big magnet lab is. You walk around there for a day, you run into people from all over the world. That kind of investment in science makes our country attractive. It's incredibly good for our locational climate. We know the PwC report is in the field of science. And there's a proposal from the Knowledge Coalition. There are a number of balls on the dot, if I may put it that way, and I sincerely hope that they will be kicked into the target by a new cabinet. This is not only good for science, but also more important for our country. Investment is really needed to continue to participate in the global summit. They are needed to reduce the workload in higher education. The report's clasp-and-ready about that. Mrs. Van der Woude asked: how do you do it effectively? Shouldn't you be giving more guidance to that? It is then very good to look at the success formula Horizon Europe. Horizon Europe consists of three similar pillars. One for free and unbound research, one for mission-driven research and one for innovation. All three pillars are very successful. But mission-driven research can only be successful if you also have that free and unbound research, because mission-driven research builds on the results of free and fundamental research. Look at the corona vaccines. There wouldn't have been one without free and untied investigation. We have to be aware of that. Mission-driven research is always about the societal challenges and the great challenges of our time. But we must also lay the scientific foundation for the challenges in ten or twenty years' time. You need free and fundamental research for that now. So yes, it is important that we do mission-driven research, but never at the expense of free and fundamental research. They must always be in balance. Most patents in Europe stem from the very free research, much more than from the mission-driven research. That says something, too. So yes, give direction, but always in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. There's been an interruption. I would like to meet with Members: eight questions and/or comments. I call Mrs Van der Woude of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u5	I'm quite capable of following your story. I want to take away the impression that yesterday I wanted to make a contradiction between bound and unbound or applied. That image often exists. It's my job to make it clear which missions you're going for. Then I have to say that the Netherlands, to a very large extent, I believe 78% is a service economy and not a R&D-intensive country. If we want to be another country, an innovation country, that structure will have to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u6	Yes. I am pleased that you acknowledge that these three pillars must be balanced. You have free and fundamental research, mission-driven research and innovation research. They have to be balanced if you really want to move forward and, as you rightly say, you also want to have that impact on society. Marcel Levi, the President of NWO, rightly argues that we must ensure that the missions we formulate are not too narrow. They need to have width and space for researchers to really discover new things. It shouldn't be "asking for the known path." As departments and as public authorities, we have an important role to play in this, because we are often part of those missions. Mr. Chairman. Investing in science is essential. We also need a great deal of attention to the academic freedom and security of our scientists. I was glad that many of you started that. You are right to draw attention to this. Science has always been and is the engine of progress in our country. It's often a life buoy we have. Unfortunately, today's reality is often that the people who are offering us this lifeboat, who are doing science, are threatened. That's not an incident anymore. It's the order of the day. Facts and opinions are often mixed up, and consciously. And then I express myself very diplomatically. I'd like to be quite clear about it here. Whatever lies behind a threat to a scientist, it's never gonna be right. There's never any justification for that. We need to stand here together for a science that can do its work unthreatened, in independence and without obstacles, and share that work that can be shared with society without obstacles. It shouldn't be the case that scientists do self-censorship because otherwise they find a sticker on their front door in the morning. Institutions and public authorities must work together to achieve this. I was therefore very pleased with this hand-out made by the VSNU, together with rectors from all universities. There is an approach for the safety of our scientists, for academic freedom, with, for example, a reporting and advice point, similar to that for journalists: ScienceSafe. As a result of the presentation, I spoke with scientists in the breadth of the spectrum. One writes columns in a magazine that can be seen earlier on the right, the other does research that some describe as a little wok and another does medical research. They all had to deal with the same threats. They all felt that they were under pressure and all were happy with this hand-off. Yeah, we're gonna have to stand up for that. I will support that approach where I can. Let us also bear in mind that there is a fierce debate in this academic freedom, in that space. It is of all times, and it must be. At university, in scientific debates, it must be able to sand, but everyone must feel free to do so without fear and without worry. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Woude had a further question for further research in this context. At the moment, the Academy has asked us to look at what more we can do to prevent unwanted behaviour in science. The Education Inspectorate is investigating the extent to which students still feel free to express their opinion. The results will come in spring 2022. I would first like to look at the results of these studies, and then see if they provide a basis for further action, in addition to the hand-out that is there. So these investigations are ongoing. I'd say, let's see what comes out of it first. I do not rule out the need for further in-depth research, but there is therefore all that is needed. Mr President, I come to internationalisation. As far as I am concerned, the importance of internationalisation in higher education is beyond doubt, for students themselves, who want international experience, who end up in a labour market which is very international, who want to have the opportunity to develop abroad. Moreover, internationalisation in education is important for the Netherlands if we want to remain a knowledge-based economy. We also need it to keep gaining international talent. At the same time, I also see the bottlenecks it brings. The challenge we face is to strike a good balance. On the one hand, we want to preserve the added value of internationalisation. At the same time, we must ensure that education in the Netherlands remains accessible to Dutch students who want to continue to study and ensure that higher education does not burst. For this reason, a few years ago, I submitted the legislative proposal on language and accessibility. That was voted on in this Chamber, but unfortunately it is currently waiting in the Upper House, which has declared it controversial. It is precisely in this law that we have put in place a very balanced set of measures, on the one hand, to preserve that good of internationalisation, but on the other hand to be able to set up a steering wheel. I hope that this bill will be taken up as soon as possible so that we can work on a balanced package of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u7	I understand that, and I agree with you that that law does, as you describe it, but it's going to be too late. Even if it were to happen very quickly, we would be too late to get something right in the coming year. We are now 100% sure that some training courses are going to have problems. A few training courses have emerged as a "volunteer" to do a pilot. If we now know for sure that there will be problems next academic year and you say that a pilot can't do so, I doubt that, because I think ICT problems are really too thin an argument for that. Can you at least promise that you will go in consultation with VSNU and the Association of Colleges to see what you can do to avoid problems for the next academic year? Can you let us know before Christmas? Before Christmas, we need to know, because then the game starts before the next academic year. That's why I have such a great sense of urgency. All these students abroad are pulling everything together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u8	I have that conversation all the time. I object to you saying that it is because of implementation problems. Maybe it's a good thing that the Chamber is always alert to the performance. If we write down that a measure is not feasible in the short term, we will not write it down for nothing. That's not supposed to be an excuse, but then it's because there's real problems in that. I hope the Chamber takes these kinds of signals seriously. Of course, I also have discussions with the institutions to prevent problems from arising. However, I would also like to raise with them in this discussion with the institutions: what can you do for yourself? What can you do yourself in stopping recruiting? Recently, I had to turn my finger on a university because it is breaking the rules in foreign students. It's not up to the government alone. It is also what the institutions themselves can do. Of course, no one wants students to come here and not find a room. No one wants that growth to go too fast. Again, the bill is there. There's a balanced approach in that. Have the First Chamber pick that up quickly. I would like to have that conversation, but I do not know whether it will lead to a concrete result before Christmas, or to anything other than what we are doing now. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u9	Okay, I liked that last one. Let me get this straight. These training courses have long stopped recruiting, but the flow continues to come. That's why we need to do something now. Thank you for letting us know before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u10	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u11	In the field of internationalisation, Mr Paternotte had also asked a question about training at several universities in Europe. This European university is, of course, a very interesting idea, if we want to further the European idea, but also if we want to give students a chance to study within one study in several European countries. It is also good for the circulation of knowledge within Europe and for student mobility in the different directions. So, yeah, I think it's an interesting thought. And yes, I'm going to see what the concrete obstacles are to shape that. You raised the question of whether such training should be accredited separately in four countries. I think we'll create bureaucracy that doesn't need anything. I'm gonna take stock of that and get back to you as soon as possible on what it takes to make that fly. There are very nice examples of this. Fortunately, the Netherlands has succeeded in participating in a number of alliances in the initiative of European universities. But if you really want that to fly, then it has to be not only for joint research but also for students. So, yeah, we're gonna take a look at it. I would like to say the following to Mr Peters in response to his question. I told you, there must be a balanced approach to internationalisation. That's important for our own students. This is important for our knowledge-based economy. That is why we will also have to increase students' chances of staying. In some areas, we need them badly on the labour market. But in Europe we also need to talk about brain circulation. That is not only that students are coming this way, but also that students from the Netherlands are going to other European countries. That is precisely what we are talking about in Europe, with European universities. How can we ensure that students circulate in more areas in Europe? Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to knowledge security. This also has to do with internationalisation. Some of you have expressed concerns about this, and I think that is right. I understand that very well. We also see that the safety of our knowledge is under pressure. This is not only because universities and companies are being hacked, but we also see that sensitive knowledge sometimes flows away. Sometimes, knowledge is consciously extracted from us by state actors. At the same time, we must also be aware that knowledge flourishes. Science flourishes thanks to openness, international cooperation and attracting talents from all over the world. Openness also brings us a lot. Open science, for example, has brought us a lot in the corona era. As a result, much more research became immediately available to many more people. But we must also be honest about the fact that we have been collectively naive in a number of areas for too long. I heard the German Chancellor say the same about the week. So we need to be extremely alert about the issues of knowledge security. At the same time, we must also ensure that the pendulum does not go too far to the other side: so open where possible and protect where necessary. International cooperation must remain possible, but we must take action where necessary. I sent you a letter last November about our approach. We're working on that. We also announced that we were going to take a number of measures. This was, for example, the beginning of raising awareness through a knowledge security dialogue. We have conducted this dialogue with all the institutions of higher education and it is now almost complete. It also involved drawing up a national guidance document on knowledge security, setting up administrative arrangements with the knowledge institutions, setting up a expertise and advice window on knowledge security, as well as establishing a legally binding review framework. With all these steps, we've gone to work. I have already announced that you can expect a further letter on this in January of next year. We will have worked out this in more detail and, for example, we will be able to explain exactly how this window is being created. So that's what we're doing. I can imagine that, as a result of the letter that comes in January, we will continue to discuss it with the Chamber. What I can tell you is that through the dialogue that my people have had with all these institutions, we can see that there has been an increase in alertness and that there has been a greater awareness of the risks. But we also really need to take a number of measures to ensure that this is done better. Mr. Chairman. Vocational training. I am always happy when in such a budget debate a lot of people talk about our vocational education and the MBO. I think I did it last year, but I want to compliment them here again. We have had years in which there were wide concerns about the quality of our MBO. That's where huge blows were made to improve that. Of course, I made quality agreements with the MBO. The Scheffer Commission has entered into dialogue with all these institutions to see what is happening about quality policy. We see that all these institutions have made the cut. One was immediately a fat 9 and the other needed some more guidance and some more encouragement. But they've all made it, and that deserves a big compliment. Fortunately, it has been said many times over the past year, but of course we have all said now that we are nowhere without those good professionals. I think it was Mrs van der Plas who so graphically sketched it by saying: this whole room would not have been without those professionals. We should also be aware that this labour market is developing rapidly and that people from MBO are now entering jobs that did not exist at all when they started training. That's how fast it is. Flexibility, fast switching, connecting well with regional business and feeling very well what is needed there is therefore important. We've been investing a lot in that for a long time. One of the things we have before that is the Regional Investment Fund MBO, where institutions together with industry can shape this innovation. We have also taken the necessary administrative steps to ensure that the MBO can stand for the tasks it stands for. I mentioned the quality agreements. The right of admission has, of course, been established. I will come back a little more internship discrimination later. I would also like to remind you that you have a legislative proposal on improving the legal status of the MBO student. I would appreciate it if you could deal with this in good time, because that could also come into effect on time. Mr. Chairman. A number of you asked whether we should not do something with vocational training training for occupations for which labour market demand is less at the moment, while at the same time we have shortages in many subjects. I have sent you a state of affairs in the previous questions, in which we can see that, with the exception of entrance training, all MBO courses at all levels are in fact covered by the fact that most young people find a sufficient number of hours at a level within a year. But entrance training is a very special category of young people. If the labour market perspective is really insufficient, then of course we have the instrument of macro-efficiency to intervene in it. I do not think we should do that either, but I do not believe in a numerus fixus for a number of studies, because 'these people would then go to those deficits'. That's not how it works. If you put a fixus on a study that you think is "there's less labour market perspective, so let's let less students in there" then those students go to the most related subject. They don't necessarily go to that deficit area where you'd like to see people go. So we will have to do other things to make deficit sectors attractive. Business itself also has a role to play in this by providing an attractive working environment and by providing attractive working conditions. What I see, too, is a dialogue that I have been engaged in for some time now. It is that many MBO or HBO students are entering the economic and administrative training courses, which we know is low in the labour market perspective, especially in the MBO at level 2. Still, those students are flowing in there. Many of these courses now say: in the construction of this study, let us ensure that students get in touch with technology, with ICT, with care, for example, so that they may be tempted into a different outflow profile during their studies. So that they can discover something that they find interesting, but which they initially thought: I don't want to go that way. Or whose parents said "parents" are very decisive for the choice of study "we prefer not to see you go that way." I see in both the MBO and the HBO that that pays off. I therefore believe that this is a more fruitful approach than a firm fixus. Mr Peters is quite right, of course, when he says that public-private cooperation with the business community in the region is very important if we are to remain well placed for this labour market challenge. So that's what we're working on. I also hear: can't you just make sure that mbos work in a production line where there are shortages? That's possible, provided it's a B.B.L. training. Then students can work there for four days and have a day of training. Fortunately, even in the corona era, many more companies have reported themselves as a learning-work company. That has helped greatly in addressing the internship shortages, and it is very interesting. I hope that we will be able to increase the number of bbl-places by that route. I would also like to say to companies: if you have shortages, offering bbl-training places is very interesting. I see Mr Beertema nodding. He recognizes that mechanism. That just works. Very often these students stay in your company, because they are already grounded and know the surroundings. So I would also like to say to companies in, for example, technology that have shortages: do not offer attractive bbl-places or discriminate if you are looking for people! All this helps and it can also be done in production lines where they are now faced with large deficits. A number of you asked Mr Van Baarle, Mrs Gündoğan and Mrs Bouchallichh all about the internship shortages. They have, of course, been a huge problem in corona. We were at some point short of 20,000 internships. We've now reduced that to below 7,000. It's a huge effort. We have funded SBB for the implementation of an action plan internships and we see that this has resulted in a huge number of internships and that many new companies have also become a learning work company. Thousands have been added. This has been extremely hard worked on in all regions and SBB deserves a compliment. In addition, we have, of course, also ensured that internships are handled more creatively in the service document for the MBO. Look at vacation periods, too. Check out weekends, if you like. See if you can put multiple students into one internship or if you can use the learning goals at a company in another sector. Very specifically for the care, colleague De Jonge has made additional funds available for additional guidance in the care. A regulation will be drawn up for this purpose. It looks at how to employ more trainees with less guidance, by using interns of both MBO and HBO level. So you can also create more internships. I saw that myself in a hospital. There's full attention to that. Mr Van Baarle was right to ask about these extra internships at the government that were promised. The preliminary figures show that the government set up about as many internships this year as last year. So there are places that really need to be added, but you can also imagine that this is quite difficult now that a lot of work is being done at home. However, the Minister of the Interior is working on a structural approach to create more internships in the government. This also involves the internship coordinators of the various departments and implementation organisations, but also of the other authorities. This is now being done in a very structural way, partly in response to the pressure from the Chamber. So thank you for putting the fire on us in that area for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Baarle of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u13	I think I can do better with the Minister of the Interior to discuss internships in the government, but I appreciate the Minister's feedback and an action plan. I would like to ask two questions relating to the overall internship shortage. My last impression is that the internship shortage involved about 7,200 places. It's less than 7,000 now. That's good. Is there actually a view of the amount of internships that will be added in the coming period? And when exactly will that deficit of 7,000 places be about run down? My second question is this. Fortunately, there are good statistics on internship deficits in the MBO, but there are no figures on internship deficits in higher education. Could the Minister promise that research will be carried out into the shortage of traineeships in higher education? We don't have a visual on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u14	That's a good question. It's complicated to get a look at that. I'll look into it. We must also prevent students from being delayed by a shortage of internships. The internship shortages in the MBO also show a moving picture. After all, internships are added and there are also disappearing. You can also imagine that, with new limitations in society, there are also restrictions in placements. So this gives a rather moving picture. But I'll try to keep your Chamber as informed as possible periodically as possible. The fact that there are deficits is also partly due to the fact that internships now have to be made up. Some students, for example, have chosen not to do an internship in the form of a simulation during the corona period. They chose to wait with that internship and therefore study a little longer. I think it's very legitimate for a student to make this choice. It's not for nothing that we've compensated students. However, I will ensure that your Chamber is kept regularly informed of the development of the internship image, both in MBO and in HBO. We also regularly get an update of the SBB. I will make sure that the Chamber is informed. I don't know if we're getting the HBO figures very precisely, but I'm going to do my best because I'd like to know myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u15	I understand that it is difficult to pass on that exact number, also because of what is happening around corona. I ask the Minister when she will be able to tell the Chamber if there is a way to get a look at these internships in higher education. In fact, I think it is important to understand the extent of the deficit in higher education, also in view of the situation with corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u16	I promise you that in Q1 of 2022 we will report to the Chamber widely on progress. How's the internship going? I am also trying to get the best possible view of the situation in HBO and throughout higher education. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to focus on internship discrimination in vocational education. A number of members of the Chamber have rightly considered this. Mr Van Baarle asked why so little has been done with our motion? I think that motion has been carried out on all points. The motion calls for internship discrimination to be included in the conditions of recognition. If a company discriminates against it, recognition as an internship company is withdrawn. We have said earlier in the approach: if you want to be recognised as a learning work company again, there is a module about how you recognise prejudice, whether they are conscious or unconscious. We also have a training programme for the learning companies that were already there. Through the #KIESMIJ campaign, where we actually support everything covered by internship discrimination, we also ensure that students become more familiar: how do you report that? It remains complicated, as you, fortunately, said, that it is often very difficult to prove. Internship discrimination is always unacceptable and discrimination in the labour market anyway. Social Affairs is working with discrimination in the labour market. One would say that at a time when business is grumpy among labour shortages, it can't be that you reject people because of their last name or their zip code. I find it all the more incomprehensible that it is still happening, but there are many ways in which we must continue to ensure that it disappears. I do not think it will disappear completely very quickly, but we have a broad approach to this and it must also be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u17	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister shares with the DENK Group the disapproval of the fact that so many young people are discriminated against in the search for an internship. DENK had tabled a motion in which we asked for the prevention of discrimination to be explicitly included in the conditions of recognition. At the moment, that is not explicit. At the moment, the conditions for recognition state that an internship company must ensure a safe working environment. That's a general term. Now there are a lot of people, including from the Verwey-Jonker Institute, who say: if you want to combat discrimination, you have to make it a tough standard. In that respect, therefore, I have also tabled that motion, which has been adopted, it would be good if we explicitly included in the terms of recognition: you will not discriminate. That's what sets a standard. That's what raises awareness. Can the Minister, in carrying out the motion, promise me that she will ensure that it is explicitly included? I think that's a good step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u18	You are right to say, and you are right to say so, that the conditions state that you must be able to provide a safe working environment. This is, of course, a working environment in which there is no discrimination. Should we not explicitly state that this means that discrimination cannot be dealt with, or a more correct wording for it? About whether we can do that, I'm gonna talk to SBB. I'd be happy to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u19	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I'd like to look forward to the results of the conversation. I have a second question. The Minister talked about training materials to combat discrimination. Indeed, a number of modules have been developed, including by the College of Human Rights, which companies have to select schools objectively. I think that's good. The question I have is: is it mandatory for learners who want to receive recognition to take such a course? Is that mandatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u20	To my knowledge... I'm just gonna say that out of my head. For new companies I think it is, for existing ones not yet. But I'm gonna find out. I will come back to you when I come back to specifying the prohibition of discrimination in the conditions. 'Cause if it's not mandatory yet, maybe we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u21	Following on from Mr Van Baarle's questions, first of all, I would like to say that I too welcome the Minister's commitments on this point, particularly as regards whether or not companies should be obliged to do so. The minister also mentioned the campaign #KIESMIJ. That's a campaign that really intrigues me. I run into that campaign in public space. I may feel addressed as a citizen, as an individual, but as an employer perhaps not immediately. I therefore wonder whether such a campaign, which focuses on alleged or potential victims, should not be directed more specifically at employers. It now seems to be a campaign of a group of people asking: please, choose me. At least that's what it looks like, because of the communication style #KIESME for which it was chosen. In my view, however, it should not be a question of that group, but an order to those who have the power to exclude it. I'm looking for words, but I hope the Minister understands what I mean. I would therefore like to ask myself whether we can also consider a campaign that is more focused on business, on the employer and on the people who have to hand out the jobs. Wouldn't it be more effective to focus that campaign more on them? Could we possibly do an investigation into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u22	#KIESM consists of much more than just the public campaign you see. There are also elements that focus on that business. But I think your question is also correct. That's exactly what you want to address. Let me deal with the following: Mr Van Baarle had a number of questions and you have another question. We will send a letter to the Chamber in the first quarter of next year with a number of elements that are now being discussed about internship discrimination. After all, it is a very urgent issue, which I think we all think is: we need to get it out of the world as soon as possible. I am thinking of elements such as: what about the recognition of apprenticeships? What about the explication? And does the campaign address enough employers? I'll take those elements with me in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u23	I also have a question about the role of the National Coordinator against Racism in this. It is not entirely clear to me whether he is, for example, a party that can be included in the design of such a policy. And in what context will he be used for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u24	I don't know yet. He just got here, of course. It concerns a very esteemed former colleague of mine, so I would like to discuss with him whether he sees a role for himself in this. I believe that as a national coordinator this should be possible. At least we should talk about that. So I'll come back to that. Thanks for the suggestion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in my block about the MBO, Mrs Van der Plas' question about hybrid teachers. She is right: we have discussed the WBTO here before, the subsidy for technical hybrid teachers. I do have a question: why should I now grant subsidies for something that goes well? We see that in the MBO things are going very well with the hybrid teachers, also in the technique. If you look at the state of the workforce, you can see that there is a shrinkage in the MBO, but there is an increase in staff. This also has to do with the fact that we have a lot of hybrid teachers there who come from business and often work part-time in the MBO. I think that is a very nice development, because this connects the most up-to-date knowledge from companies to the training, and experience in the workplace is also shared directly in the classroom. So that's going well. So, frankly, I do not see the urgency there. Mr. Chairman. Then teacher training. Especially considering...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u25	Before you go any further, I think that Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Beertema have something to say. Mr Bertema is closer. Would it be okay if Mr. Beertema went a little earlier, Mrs. Van der Plas? I see you nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u26	Was this the end of the Mbo block? Okay. Then I have one more question, about critical teachers in the MBO. I was considering making a motion on that, but I didn't come out well. It is very complicated to enter from the Ministry; I understand that very well. However, there is a great deal of suffering for those teachers who are dealing with educational renewals that they themselves can hardly cope with. My question to the Minister is: do you have the book "When do we get lessons again?" Read from Paula van Manen? The author of the book was a roc teacher. It has been dismissed on the basis of its criticism and has been subject to a de facto ban. In the rock world you are very easily infected; that's how it works. So the lady isn't coming back to work. Yet she has a very important story to tell. I would like to invite the Minister to at least read that book and perhaps have a cup of coffee with that writer to discuss these problems. I think a world would open up to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u27	I do not think it is right to discuss individual cases here, but I agree with Mr Beertema that teachers are also entitled to a safe working environment. There must be room for criticism of educational methods and systems. Education will only improve if you can start the debate on this within the institution. But I'm not going into individual cases here. I haven't read the book yet, but I've heard a lot about it. Thanks for the tip. I talk a lot to MBO teachers and BVMBO and I visit many institutions. I'm also asking them what space they're getting in. I do not get any disturbing signals that this would be a broad problem, but I agree with Mr Beertema that there should also be a safe environment for teachers in which they can have the debate on how lessons are taught and what the method looks like. That space should always be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u28	I understand that you can't step in such an individual case, but since this book's been going round... It is available on bol.com. I'm just saying that for the officials who can buy it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u29	I always prefer to buy from the local bookstore, because they need the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u30	Yes, very good. That's much better, much better. But with that it is no longer an individual case. I'd say a lot of reading pleasure. I think it's really gonna move you to have that cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u31	Thanks again for the tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u32	Mrs van der Plas van BBB and then Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u33	I didn't quite understand the Minister's answer. My question was about the 50 million that it costs every year to get those hybrid teachers up and running. I asked a question about that. I don't want to abolish it or anything. That's why I'm saying I didn't understand the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u34	Your question about using 50 million grants for this purpose. We have problems with teacher shortages on many fronts. Then I think it's a bit of a shame to use subsidies where things go well. I understand that the business community wants that subsidy, but we see those hybrid teachers coming in plenty. I don't have the idea that we have a specific shortage there. Then I would rather use the scarce public resources where they really are needed and can really make a difference. These hybrid teachers are incredibly good and they add a lot of quality, but that goes well without the subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u35	We're getting signals from the Industrial Coalition, which is also entitled to her story. It doesn't have to be stante pede, but is there an overview of the number of hybrid teachers in vocational education, where there may be shortages? Then I'd like to go into that a little bit further, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u36	We regularly inform you about the broad field of teachers. In December, the labour market monitor of education will come back and we will take this point with us. We also had this discussion last year, but that was before your time. I understand the lobby of the Industrial Coalition very well, but we like to use the scarce resources where they are most needed. But we'll give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u37	I get that. If the word "industry" falls, it's like it's some kind of scary or dirty word. That is not personal with you, but I can see that in general. We would like to keep our own companies in the Netherlands. That's why I'm so pleading for that. We are concerned about the rapid pace in which companies leave the Netherlands. We would like to keep our own Dutch manufacturing industry here. That was the background to my input on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u38	I got the impression that the Minister was at the end of the VET block. Yesterday I proposed raising the minimum internship allowance to the level of the Rijks-cao. For the viewers at home, that question has not now been raised, which has been answered in writing. I got a little confused about that. The Minister writes that a higher remuneration than an expense allowance for an internship is not technically possible. Then I think, "That's impossible, isn't it?" You see a very big difference now. Apparently, the Rijks-cao can do it taxically. If it is possible for one sector to be subject to taxation, then it can be done for another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u39	I'm not saying that what the government does couldn't be broader. I say that a fee that is reasonably above expenses is regarded as a wage and then you have to pay taxes on it. I also wrote in that written reply that the level of the internship allowance really belongs to the consultation between employers and employees. I have also written to you that we have agreed on this with the Labour Foundation and the educational partners, that in any case there is always an internship allowance, that we always need it and that it has a real level. We made those agreements. This must then also be agreed in the sectors, as we have also agreed in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u40	That should not be, that is a choice, because if the Cabinet can make the agreement with the Labour Foundation that it should be a real fee, then the agreement can also be made that it should be €635, or €20, or €18,000. These agreements can seem to be made with the Labour Foundation. It seems to me that it would be easy to add an amount to that amount, for example, in the Rijks-cao. For what decisive reason does the Minister say: no, we are not going to include an amount in these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u41	Look, you say it yourself: at the Empire we did it in a collective agreement. I really think it belongs there. What these costs are, by the way, still differs from sector to sector. I still think that's important. There may also be differences between individuals. We made that deal with the Labour Foundation. This should then take place in the workplace. That hasn't happened right everywhere, I agree with you immediately. That is why we will continue to appeal to the social partners. Mr. Chairman. Then teacher training. Given the shortage of teachers we have, it is of course incredibly important that we keep that training attractive and appropriate. Mrs Pouw also had a number of questions about this. I am extremely pleased that in the past year we have managed to conclude a governance agreement with teacher training and the pabos on more flexible teacher training. These are the second degree teachers and the pabos. What we are doing more and more is rather than thinking about offering-oriented training, and you need to look at the side-intromer much more through it: who do we have for us and what does that person need to be in front of the class with a good luggage? And then a tailor-made journey is made on it. This means that you're going to perform an evc policy, recognition of acquired competences, and start assessments. We all know the stories of side-intromers; they tell us that they have had an English-language job their entire working life, but that English is the first course they have to follow. That's not the first thing a side-intromer needs. So we're not gonna do that anymore. Those appointments were made. That side-influx in the profession is incredibly valuable. It helps us enormously, but we must also ensure that it is attractive to people and remains manageable. In this context, a large number of you asked to ensure that people are adequately trained in practice. We are working on Training and Professionalizing Together. In fact, we want this to be the way of working step by step in all schools. This means that you always ensure that teachers in training stand in front of the class as soon as possible, are well supervised and therefore also make flight hours and gain experience as quickly as possible. This also contributes to the quality of education. In addition, we managed to agree with all the pabo's that there will be a possibility to make the keys, which you had to make at the pabo first before the gate, after the gate. You can do them in front of the gate, but you can do it after. Let's see if that works. Mr Bishop is not here right now, but I wanted to tell him that this is not going to affect the quality of the training. We are going to make sure that these tests do not become a kind of "disappearance in front of the gate," but that you can do them in a good way during the training with guidance. All the pabos would be happy to cooperate. In fact, we also work step by step towards an assessment at the front, where we look very closely at whether a student is from the MBO, from the HAVO or the VWO or whatever. In short: what can you do already, what do you bring in luggage and what do you need first? I think that is a good development, and we can ensure that we can make the pabo attractive to more people, while maintaining all the qualities. It is really important that we hold on to that battle, though, because now it's just scaring people away. Fortunately, I also see Mr Bishop nodding in agreement. Mr. Chairman. In the area of equality of opportunity, I believe that Mr Slob is going to discuss this in greater detail. But Mr De Hoop had the question: on what basis should a next cabinet build on? When it comes to vocational education and higher education, I would like to mention a number of things that we have really set in motion. This is, for example, an improvement in the flow in the professional column; we have really taken a number of major steps in this period. And make sure that vmbos and mbo'ers can get through pan by themselves, that you get really continuous learning lines there. Abolishing the cascade cost in the MBO. That has really been an important step in the equality of opportunity in the MBO, because then the institution will no longer suffer if it has to accompany a student with a little more backpack in the programme longer, and if it needs a little more time. We have a strengthened commitment to internship discrimination. We have introduced the MBO declaration for early school leavers, who can show what they can do, and with it can get started. And I always hope they'll get their starting qualification later, but they can get started and they'll get that positive feedback: you can do this and you'll get an explanation for this. And in higher education, for example, we are working on the return of lottery tickets to selection, because I believe that this also contributes to equality of opportunity. So yes, a foundation has been laid, but I very much agree with you: we are certainly not done with that. Then in my last block a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u42	I still had a reply from the Minister on teacher training, a question in last week's debate. That was about the influx moment for the second jurisdiction. Then the Minister said: will you please hold that motion? Could it be that I missed this in the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u43	Oh, yeah. I've got it on the motions. But I can give you the answer now, and then I have to disappoint you. Look, what we have made possible: the February invaders can use it, only they will have to wait a little longer for their compensation, because they will only get it in October. We've been looking at, can we make that possible? This is a very small group. In what we have now been able to retrieve from how many people it could be, we have found one. Converting this into DUO's systems costs out of my mind, so I say €40,000. Yeah, there's nodding. We have quite an overloaded portfolio there and I'm afraid there will be a few more jobs for DUO coming up in the future. So here I am really asking in a reasonable way: how big is the problem that we want to solve, while the February-instromers can also make use of that compensation, but only have to wait a few months until they get it and they don't get it in front? And what do we have to do to solve the problem? I'll make a different weighing than you do, so I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u44	I don't know yet how that weighting goes, because these were things we didn't know before. And I think it is right to keep an eye on the execution, especially at DUO; there is still some pressure on it, let me put it this way. But the problem for this group, of which I wonder whether it is not bigger, is of course not that they have to wait for the money. The problem is that at the time of registration they do not know whether they will eventually receive that money. And that's where it goes wrong. Because you can't register yet; maybe there's oversubscription, for example. So that means that when you get your second jurisdiction, you'll only find out six months later if you get a grant at all. So this can lead to very heavy debts, and it also means that teachers do not choose to do so. And I think there should be something to be done about that that does not need to be radically adapted in the systems. So at least to take away that uncertainty. Perhaps not to get the money sooner, because then you will have to change the whole scheme and then money will have to be transferred sooner, but only at the point where you can decide on the award, that you know that the money will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u45	I will look at that question again and I will come back to you in the second term, if we are going to discuss the motions. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of different questions. Mr Paternotte asked me if I agree with him that PhD research is also a job. We have, of course, spoken before about the experiment on promotional education. I believe that in this Chamber I also indicated at first instance that I had my doubts about this, especially in view of what these PhD students themselves thought. But the Chamber didn't think so at the time. We still see broad concerns in the target group. At the same time, there is also a final evaluation currently under way. It will be completed by the end of this year. At the beginning of 2022 it will come to the Chamber with a policy response. There's one thing I won't do. The Chamber has declared it controversial, so I will not take irreversible steps. That also means that we are not going to allow a new influx. Because that does not make sense, so that third tranche... let's wait for that evaluation and give a policy response to it. The experiment is what it is now, but there will be no new influx. We're evaluating now. The policy response comes to the Chamber and then it's up to the Chamber. But I have recently spoken about it with PhD candidate Network Netherlands and I have little enthusiasm there. Let me put it this way. PhD students say that this brings with it a great deal of uncertainty. There is wide talk here of the problem of poor working conditions in higher education and the pressure it brings. Then perhaps we should draw some conclusions from that. Mr De Hoop asked whether the Profiling Fund should not be called the Student Support Fund. I think you've asked me to think about that before. At the MBO it's called the MBO Student Fund. We had ourselves come out on the higher education student fund. But I am in favour of any naming that you think fits better and makes it clearer for students what it is. But the fact that the name Profiling Fund doesn't really cover the load for everyone, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u46	I welcome this commitment from the Minister. In particular, the LSVb and the ISO have made this request, because indeed only 5% of students really know how to find the fund. It is very good that we can ensure that it is more accessible and that students get better access to that fund. I appreciate that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u47	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the last question. I'd like to make this right. Especially when it comes to corona and vaccination, we must prevent the world from getting the wrong information. Mr Bishop had a question yesterday. He said that the University of Amsterdam is communicating: we expect you to be fully vaccinated. I checked it very carefully and that's just not the case. So I would like to say this publicly: that is not the case. What does the UvA wear? Let me read it to you. It's in English, because you're also trying to reach your international students: while we hope that everyone who studies and works at the UvA chooses to get vaccinated, everyone is free to decide this for themselves. I think that is a very clear message. It doesn't say: we expect you to be fully vaccinated. So we say: we hope that everyone will be vaccinated, but the choice is really up to everyone. And I can go along with that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the amendments in my area. Mr Slob will discuss the amendments in his area. Mr Omtzig's amendment relates to item No. 10 on the reduction of the budget for the Device Core Department. I believe that this has already been discussed in both the Financial Reviews and the General Reviews. It won't surprise anyone that I'm betraying this. Then there is the amendment to item No. 22 by Mrs Westerveld, on the shift in alpha, gamma and medical science. It's been dissuaded because of the cover. You won't be surprised. The cover you indicate comes from the Maatoug amendment and that amendment has been rejected. The amendment in part No. 29 by Mrs Gündoğan on research and science policy under the Lisbon objective. We exchanged that in the debate; that is really up to a next cabinet. The amendment in part No. 31 by Mr De Hoop, in order to make practice learning structural, I advise against. This was an additional boost for the agriculture, catering and recreation sectors. I have to say here too: the cover for structural development is not sound, as we call it. But in 2022 we will also evaluate the scheme in practice. I also think it would be wise to look at the sectors in which the main bottlenecks arise and where we should give this extra impetus. I'm not sure they're the same sectors. The labour market is on the move. So that amendment has been dissuaded. Then I have the amendment to item No. 27 members of De Hoop and Westerveld. This amendment is also about the Lisbon objective. You won't be surprised that I'm also deceiving that because of the lack of coverage. Mr. Chairman. Then I have had the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u48	And the amendment to item No. 33 on low literacy? That amendment came in later. I shall at least give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u49	I have already said it in my contribution, but I find it complicated that we are, of course, dealing with a budget in which, at one stroke, extra money is added for the National Education Programme. But I have also heard the Minister say a few times about higher education that structuralally, so every year, an additional billion is needed. That money is needed to cope with the workload, to cope with the increased number of students and to actually be able to ensure good education and good research. And then we look at the budget and then we see not only that this money is not in it for next year at least, but that there are also a number of cuts in the long term. I mention the interest rate increases that didn't go through, for 226 million. I mention the cuts on DUO, for a total of 320 million, I think. I call that shift, with an extra cut in alpha, gamma and medical studies of 38 million. I find that very complicated to rhyme with. And then here we are trying to at least undo some of those cuts, and then we hear: it's the cover. Then I would like to ask the Minister if she can look with us at a cover that will get a curl, so that we can at least reverse a small part of those cuts for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u50	By the way, the National Education Programme also makes a significant contribution to higher education. We also saw in the past year that the increase in student numbers has been fully and structurally compensated. I know what you're saying. There are still a number of challenges in this education budget. It has been agreed earlier that they are parked, as it is also up to a next cabinet to see what they do with it. I understand your concern and your desire to be certain of that already, but I think you really need to wait a few weeks. I can't promise that now, missionary as I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u51	Then we're almost in a discussion about what a outgoing cabinet can and can't do. It feels a bit like an occasional argument to me. If there are really difficult issues on the table, the cabinet says: sorry, we are expelled, so we can't do this. I would like to ask the Minister what she thinks about the fact that a outgoing cabinet is going to make future cuts in the education budget, because that was also done by a outgoing cabinet. Of course, that also gives an advance on the future. In any case, that gives another cabinet another challenge, namely that it should deal with an education budget in which this outgoing cabinet has made a number of cuts... I was gonna say "messed," but I'm looking for a good word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u52	Processing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u53	There have been cuts in bikes, or processed, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u54	We have had this discussion here before. There are just quite deliberately a number of things parked, for example some things that came out of the coalition agreement. In addition, we did the same when this cabinet took office. At that time, we repaired a number of tasks that were still outstanding in the coalition agreement. There are now a number of things, such as the failure to continue with the interest rate measure, which we agreed at the time: we will solve for a limited number of years. By the way, that's up to another cabinet. Take, for example, the resources related to the very necessary maintenance of the ICT at DUO. It's almost said, "Do you have to?" But it is important that we can continue to spend both our resources on students and on educational institutions. At the time, the Law was also in the process of language and accessibility. The task I received from Finance was: see if you can steer those international students in such a way that it's going to do something in the walk-up. We know that this law, declared controversial, is in the First Chamber and we now know what is happening to international students. That will also require a new weighting on the formation table, but I cannot deal with that at the moment, no matter how much I sympathize with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u55	One final question on this point. I understand that there are challenges and I understand what these ministers are concerned with, but these ministers have seen a cut in the previous cabinet on their plate. Then I'd say, "You know what that feels like, don't you?" This cabinet doesn't want to burden the upcoming cabinet with austerity, does it? If, in fact, we know from the PwC report that more than 1 billion extra is needed in structural terms, and if we know that 1.1 billion, given the rising numbers of students, has probably become 1.3 billion, then surely this outgoing cabinet can not say: we are putting up the next cabinet with a cut again? The Minister agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u56	I think we're gonna repeat ourselves here. I understand what Mrs Westerveld is saying, but this cabinet has decided to do it this way and I do not have the room to do anything else in it right now. It's on the formation table. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I have been able to look into the Simons amendment to item No. 33 about the lowly. I fully understand the urgency she feels about tackling low literacy, but it covers the amendment with the under-exhaustment of resources for corona lanes. That is a cover that I cannot give you a positive opinion on, because we have made the agreement in the Cabinet that funds released by under-exhaustment of corona expenditure go back to the treasury, because it is generically covered. So I can't say that I'm going to do this this way, so I have to discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u57	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Education, Culture and Science for her first-term response. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes and then give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u58	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science in the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Chamber for the contribution in the first term. She is not in the room, but also my compliments to Mrs Van der Woude for her maiden speech. What's better than having your maiden speech during a budget treatment? Then you can look at anything. I think she did, too. It is indeed remarkable that we are now defending a budget in this Chamber for the fifth time. "Deep missionary," as Mr Paternotte so beautifully said. Of course, we didn't think of that last year. If you consider that the cabinet has been decommissioned since January, let me take a look back at my own area, the foundational education, then we have not been on our hands in recent months. That is a collective thing, because there has also been a lot of legislation in your Chamber, which had not been declared controversial. I am thinking, among other things, of the simplification of the financing of secondary education, something that went through both the Lower House and the Upper House. It had first happened in the vo and then also in the p.o. It's been waiting for years, and now it's finally happened. We have completed the Evaluation Matching Education in a very nice way, I think, and we have started working on the action points that have emerged from it. I shall come back to that separately when I answer questions put by Mrs Westerveld. We have finally taken the citizenship formation law to the finish line in the Second and First Chambers. It even entered August 1st. I'll come back to the National Education Programme separately. That too has been done in a demissionary state. The law on the flow test lies with the Eerste Kamer and with your Lower House is the law on administrative instruments. In short, we have worked hard, and I would like to thank the Chamber for having been able to do this in the past year. Of course, I would also like to thank all our officials who have worked very hard on this. A lot's happened. I say right away: there is still a great deal to be done. The Chamber has made a very clear and clear reference to a number of issues in which backsliding can indeed not be dealt with at all. I will deal with the issues that have been raised shortly. We do all that in the interests of the students. When we talk about primary education and secondary education, we know that we are talking about 2.5 million students who, when the schools are open, also go to the schools. That's an incredibly large group. It is a major responsibility for teachers, educational support staff, school leaders and other stakeholders to guide them on their way to adulthood. That's the stage of life they're in. That listens very, very closely. I would like very briefly to share with you a story that touched me enormously recently. I think it's been a week or two since I finally had time to read Rik Kuiper's book, that one student. Many of the stories had already been published in the newspaper he writes for. I won't mention the name, but a lot of people know. He did a number of other interviews. There was one story in there that came to me incredibly deep. It played in the nineties. It was about a teacher who was just teaching. He fell into a classroom and just kind of knew the names of the students. He asked the class a question. One boy raised his finger. He called him Dylan, but that's not his real name. He gave a wrong answer, in the sense that it was not good; he had made an attempt. Then he asked the same question to the rest of the class. Then he said, "I don't want Dylan's answer." The class was laughing. You already feel that this is not quite a pedagogically good way of doing things. A day later, the terrible message came that the boy had robbed himself of his life. That teacher had a terrible problem with that, because he felt guilty for it. He had a conversation with a colleague who said: "Oh, I'm sure there will have been more. He guided him a bit, but it just stuck in his head. Almost 30 years later, he gives words in this interview. At one point, he was a man, and that helped him enormously... to an article that said... before you say anything, you have to ask three questions. One. Is it true? Two. Is it necessary? Three. Is it friendly? He then consistently tried to apply this in his life; also in his lectures as a teacher. I think that is a very wise lesson for all of us, including in our dealings with each other, with students at school, you name it, to keep asking those three questions over and over again. I will also do my best to answer the questions I have had in order to approach you in this way. Mr. Chairman. A whole set of questions were answered in writing. There's so much to ask, I've been looking at an order. First of all, I should like to comment briefly on a few questions which are a little beyond the budget. I hope you will allow me, Mr President, to say something about the current situation regarding corona, because yesterday questions were also allowed to be asked about it. In the second block, which is really the biggest issue, I will deal with the National Education Programme and include questions about the lack of teachers and equality of opportunity. I will also address the quality of education and the questions that have been asked about it. Then I have a third block of different questions that have not yet been answered, not even in writing. Finally, I will deal with the amendments. That's the way I want to do it. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the questions that have been asked about covid, corona and education, and the current situation. Indeed, we have seen, at least in the last week, that the number of infections is on the increase, and that is what concerns parents, teachers, educational support staff, school leaders, you name it. In particular, because we see this increase also within the age of primary education, especially in the upper groups. We know that's the group that hasn't been vaccinated, because they're under 12 years old. That's what's causing trouble. We can see there's a class break. A few times, schools close. We'll keep track of that. In the last period up to and including 17 November, there are 30 schools in p.o., 3 schools in special education and in secondary education none. We know there are a lot of schools, but every school where that happens is too many. We also see that classes have to go home, because the number of infectiouss is too large. The GGD can give advice in that and it may also be that the school says out of organizational capacity: it is not responsible to take care of the education in school and that is why we are sending this class home for a few days. Those are the two reasons. By the way, we are told from many places that schools are going to organise distance education again quickly. The past experience has taught schools, unfortunately, how this can be done well. You know, I know that at least two of you had a discussion with the cabinet last week on covid and on Mr Dissel's briefing that the OMT strongly advised that education should be excluded from the measures. That is why we think it is justified. That is also our commitment as a cabinet, and I have heard some of you say in your term that we must continue to do so. That is without prejudice to the fact that it is very annoying when there is a fallout. That puts enormous pressure on education, which has already been through so much. We follow it closely and keep the finger on the wrist. You know that the OMT advises us over and over again, so we will, of course, also take the new advice. We know that if children get sick, they won't get very seriously ill. Sometimes they won't notice covid, even if they do. We also know, we are glad that about 90% of teachers from education have been vaccinated. This has been demonstrated by a poll of CNV Education. This is very nice. It is very good that the situation of preventive self-tests, which have been delivered to the schools, will also continue in the near future. They are also intended in particular for those who have not been vaccinated. There is a lot of supplies and one can simply use those tests. This applies to the teachers in the p.o. and vo, which also applies in the case of pupils. They are available for this and if one needs new supplies, they will also be delivered, not to mention because it is financed from the treasury. It is important, however, that schools follow the basic measures properly. We'll talk to them about that, too. It is also important to take a close look at one's own school situation to see what is or is not really needed. For example, parents are now kept out of school in many schools or allowed in as little as possible. If it's really necessary, it's possible. If there is a lecturer's meeting or a study day: maybe send it through or do digitally with each other at a later moment or otherwise. In short, it is important to take action in this way. I repeat what I just said: we keep our finger on the pulse and continue to talk to the education about what is needed here. The commitment is complete that we want to keep the schools open as long as it is possible, in the interests of the pupils. I'll join the National Education and Monitoring Programme later. You have seen the effects of the lockdowns in the past few months, a year and a half, and what that has meant for children and also for the learning delays they have experienced. That is in response to the questions put by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Wassenberg in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u60	Keeping the schools open now, we all share. That absolutely must be done. The corona virus is not the most threatening in children, but nevertheless I saw 56 20-miners in the hospital with the latest figures. So it's not like it doesn't do anything. Much more important is that we now have a major problem with the spread of the virus and that schools are the biggest fireplaces. Most of the spread is in that age group. Many people ask me and my colleagues: can't you do anything to slow down that pace, apart of course from closure? In Belgium you can see that a number of measures are being taken, ranging from mouth caps to CO meters in the classroom. We had earlier measures such as cohorts, making groups mix less and that students had to move less through the building. In the Netherlands, nothing of this kind is actually happening at the moment. Why does the Minister say he's not going to change that at the moment? Is he prepared to ask the OMT to look into that when it meets tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u61	In the last OMT opinion on this point, the OMT itself stated that it was not necessary to take additional measures. This is without prejudice to the fact that all the measures that we have already applied and which are still applicable need to be fully extended and that there is room for schools and we see differences between schools and where they want to do additional things. I have just given a few examples of this and I can see that it is being picked up in schools. In this respect, schools know what additional action can be taken with regard to the permanent measures which are and will remain fully applicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u62	These fixed measures are, of course, only the basic measures. I notice that schools like to take a little direction. Last June I walked on the school square with a mouth cap. At that time there was almost no corona in the Netherlands. Now there is more corona in the Netherlands than ever in terms of distribution, but now it doesn't have to. I think that many people think: it would be good if the schools were given guidance on what they can do now. You say the OMT could have advised on that. Of course, the OMT is incredibly busy. That looks at the questions raised by the government. If they don't ask questions about it, they probably won't say much about it. My request to this minister is whether he wants to make sure that the OMT looks at this tomorrow. I can imagine that the schools would very much like to hear what they can do now, for example the measures that have been taken before, to slow down the spread without closing the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u63	Of course, we'll stay in conversation with the OMT. The OMT also knows that this young age group must be an important focus for us. We will, of course, continue to discuss the new opinions they are going to give. But let's get back to the last piece of advice. In this report, the OMT has made it perfectly clear and clear why it was not necessary to take additional measures at that time in the field of education. However, it has indicated that it is important that measures are taken, precisely to help prevent us from returning to the schools in situations that we do not want to see. Your message is clear. That's what we're talking to the OMT about. We shall, of course, see how that continues in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u64	I do not know if the message has come across quite clearly, because I think the request was explicit to actively ask the OMT: what can be done in education? I agree with Mr Paternotte that we must do everything possible to keep the schools open. What can education contribute to a less rapid spread? It is also just about increasing the chance that education in that class will continue. The minister will get more messages than I do, but I'm being bombarded with reports from parents and teachers saying that the school is closed again, or that the class has been sent home again. Apart from the wider importance of limiting the virus, there is also the educational importance of preventing teachers from becoming ill. I asked yesterday if there was any thought about an escalation ladder, a terrible word. Are there measures that can be put in place immediately, precisely to ensure that these children can continue to go to school, before things get so out of hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u65	When it comes to the latter, the answer is yes. During the last period we have of course gained experience with what you can possibly do in addition during the two lockdowns. This was with all sorts of intermediate steps towards ultimately the situation that the schools have been inaccessible to most pupils for a time: we have all experienced this. I just told you, we're talking to them. I also assume that there will be opinions on it, just on the basis of what individual OMT members sometimes bring out, as we have heard many times over the past period. We'll follow that very closely. The stakes remain that we want a safe school. We also want education to continue, because we know that it's just very intense for students if they can't go to school and get back into the situation of distance education, although it's nice that there can always be that as a next best. We will, of course, keep your Chamber informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u66	Mr. Van Baarle? No? Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u67	I would also like to ask you a question about Mrs Westerveld's questions. We all hear on the assembly line about classes going home and schools going completely closed, because there are teachers or too many students infected. We just don't have an overview of it, so we don't know how serious the situation is. That also makes it difficult to discuss it here. The minister's pretty quiet. He says that the virus doesn't do so much with children, that he sees it all going well and that the basic measures need to be taken. In other countries you can see that people are more concerned. In Belgium, the measures were considerably tightened yesterday, with CO meters and mouth caps from 10 years old. There will probably be a point that something will happen in the Netherlands as well. You should always take those measures a little sooner than much later, because they will have less effect. Does the Minister have an overview of how many classes there are now at home because of corona? Is he willing to ask the OMT to talk about this tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u68	As far as the latter is concerned, I will, of course, go further. You know that the advice runs through VWS. Of the number of schools that really close, I have just mentioned the numbers. That was the last stand of November 17th, so a day ago. With regard to the classes sent home, we know that the AVS has indicated this and that it is often very reliable polls that about 50% of the schools sometimes have to send one or more classes home temporarily. This is sometimes because the GGD advises it, or because of its organizational capacity. You know the quarantine measures have also been tightened. If a roommate has corona and you don't have it yourself, you still have to stay home, even if you've been vaccinated. There's some teachers in there, too. Sometimes it's teachers who get infected. Also because of its organizational capacity, schools sometimes have to take such a measure. Those are quite large numbers in a very short time, because the week before it looked very different. Let me just say that I am relaxed here. I think it's pretty serious and worrying. There's a lot of pressure on the schools again. I am very pleased that the OMT makes it very clear that it is justified for schools to remain open, but we do need to take the right measures. We're working hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u69	So half the schools now have one or more classes sitting at home because of corona contamination. At least I think that's a lot. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister has promised to pass on the request that the OMT be looking at this tomorrow through VWS. I hope he will keep the Corona spokesmen, but certainly the educational spokesmen, well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u70	As we have always done, we will of course continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u71	On the same subject. It is, of course, important to take preventive measures. One of its components is ventilation. Now, of course, from the Empire there is the subsidy scheme to work on the ventilation of schools. Could the Minister please tell us how that is going? I think there are about 900 schools involved in this at the moment. There are several experts who indicate that it should actually be 2,000, looking at the quality of the buildings. Countries around us also pay a higher percentage. We'll pay 30%. In countries around us, such as Belgium and Germany, 60% or 70% are reimbursed by the national government. Does the Minister share with me the concern that the inequality between the poorer and richer municipalities will increase because we in the Netherlands only pay 30%? Maybe it's useful to see if we can raise that rate of compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u72	I sent to the Chamber two weeks ago all the information we have on the latest state of affairs on this subject. So that information is in your possession. You can see that there has been very hard work in the schools, but that it is indeed not yet in order in a number of schools. Sometimes this has to do with very outdated buildings, which makes it more complicated to make all these facilities. With regard to the subsidy scheme, I replied in writing. You've been able to find that and the Chamber knows it. This is the only sector to which we are giving additional money on this issue. It doesn't happen anywhere else. We've used a grant scheme that the Home Office already had. We have increased the percentage of that. So we are now assuming a higher percentage than was the case under the old regime. The first tranche was completely exhausted. So much has been done about this. The second tranche has now been opened. The registrations are coming in and are also being processed in accordance with the way we discussed with your Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u73	I would like to continue briefly on the issue of ventilation. Unfortunately, in many schools it is not yet in order. It's being wagered and of course we've seen what came out of OCW. But it is explicitly said from the teachers and also the parents and the AOb that the lists that OCW has of schools where it goes wrong can not be made public? They'll know where it's playing. Will the Minister comply with the request of the AOb, among others, to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u74	That request never reached me. That in the first place. The second point is that I do not think you can share that kind of information in public. There are also huge differences between schools. Again, this is the only sector where this has happened and I am very happy that we have done it. We have taken this issue very intensively, money has become available and we are offering schools the opportunity to put additional money in it, in addition to the money they get in their funding to use for this. Municipalities have a responsibility in this too. Again, we're keeping up with that. So there is still money available for the schools that have not yet done it. They can therefore appeal to this, together with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u75	That's obvious. I'm not saying you always have to throw everything out in the open. But today I saw another message from the AOb about this. They spoke to me yesterday. Maybe that message hasn't gotten to the minister yet. My request would be at least: see to what extent you can give teachers an enlightening picture and explain to them exactly where it goes wrong, so that we might be able to acknowledge their concerns a little more. I would therefore like to ask, among other things, to continue the discussion with the AOb on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u76	We are in constant contact with the educational parties. This is indeed one of the topics that is regularly on the table. Apart from the technical adjustments that are sometimes needed, a complete hand-out has been prepared. Schools can apply them and this is, in a manner of speaking, by applying each school in respect of ventilation. It is, of course, important to implement it. I know that this has helped many schools to see more opportunities for action on what is and is a complicated subject for quite a lot of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u77	I do the corona debates, like Mr Paternotte for example, and I sometimes wonder about the... Let me put it another way: I know that there is urgency. But I have the occasional impression that not everything is done. I am thinking, for example, of the proposals that we have made earlier to test for low-threshold in order to prevent children from contaminating each other. Hoods, distance, ventilation and CO meters are things where additional steps can be taken. I would like to ask the Minister whether he, of course with his colleagues from VWS, can really, in the very short term, see where we can take steps this week to really make it much safer in schools and that education can remain open. He says, "Wait till it all goes to hell again."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u78	In the self-tests, I think we have acted in a very good way and in good time by ensuring that there were enough available and that the schools could also apply them. These are also fully available in the near future. Not knowing that we would end up in this situation again, we did order them to be there at least. I'd rather have too many than too few. So I think that's settled in good time. The schools also know on which fronts to act. Quite apart from all kinds of technical adjustments, they can indeed do a lot themselves. That must, of course, be done in the school in the end. I've also seen that one school is making more speed with that than the other school. We therefore remain in full contact with the directors to point out to them the responsibility they bear, especially at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u79	The minister thinks physical education is important. His colleague, alongside him, has just made that clear. It has to be safe, and we all agree on that. I would like to know what priority education is given if you have to compare it to other things. Last year, for example, air traffic to sunny destinations, fun flights, was allowed, but education closed. I would like to have the Minister's promise that he will really take the fist on the table when it comes to looking at what can be locked and what can go through. He must really say that education must remain open as long as possible. Then you stop so to speak but rather with aviation to sunny destinations and for non-essential travel. I would therefore like to be promised that he will make a real commitment to education so that it can remain open as long as possible under the safest possible conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u80	Mr Wassenberg does not have to doubt that. We fought hard for that. In recent months, the cabinet has also said this in plain and clear terms. Whatever situation we're in, we'll... But it has to be justified! Of course, that's always the line that goes with it. We want to keep education open, and we have proven that in recent months and weeks, also last time. The OMT also expresses this, because you can see in the OMT that it is not just about the physical well-being, but also about the mental well-being of children. The same applies to students in MBO and higher education. That has been quite a blow due to the long closures that we have unfortunately had. And that's what we're seeing in the monitoring now. I shall come back to that in detail later. The closures were in the p.o. less than in the vo, but every week there was one too many.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u81	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u82	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u83	The Minister. Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u84	What's in a name?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u85	It often goes wrong with me: the one who is Secretary of State, I call Minister and the Minister I call Secretary of State. Well, okay. I also took a piece of it yesterday in my contribution, but teachers are so touched by how parents react when their children are at home because of corona cases at school. Then teachers really do their best to just keep teaching, even if they are infected and have complaints. But then they are often mistreated by parents. My question is, in fact, whether the Minister could make a call and really point out to parents that these teachers are doing everything they can and that it is not fun for anyone. Do not rely on those teachers or those teachers, because they are doing their best! Just create a piece of community or something. I don't know how the Minister could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u86	I did hear you say that yesterday, and I thought it was a bit generalising. Of course, there will be situations where parents and schools may get into conversation with each other with some uplifting voices, because at some point the tension is getting a lot, which may lead to a verbal collision. But what I have seen in the last year and a half since we were in that covid period is that schools and parents are trying to work together very unitedly to do what is necessary and possible in the interests of the children. Preferably at school, but if there's no other way, then at home. I'm just seeing that happening again right now. Once again, there will be two, three or perhaps ten examples of it going the other way. But I am very proud of the parents and also of the teachers and school leaders who really try to do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u87	I didn't mean it generalizing, of course. I didn't say all parents do that either. It's just what I hear from teachers, and they're just having a hard time with that. I think you might be able to do it in a bigger campaign. We still have the campaign #doeslief. You could put it underneath that; you could take this with you. And, of course, that doesn't apply to everyone, but those who don't have to feel addressed don't have to feel that way. It is more about raising people's awareness, because, of course, we find that the fuse has become very short in the last two years. And they're getting shorter and shorter. It is meant more as a general call, of: think a little about each other too, for example in education. Without wanting to put all the parents on the same page, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u88	I think it is always good if we make an appeal to each other to take account of each other and try to do things properly if necessary. This applies to education and it also applies outside education, throughout society. So let this interruption be an addition to the calls that must be made every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u89	I am actually very curious to know what advice the Minister gives to parents, schools and compulsory education officials when it comes to parents who keep their children home because of high medical risk. So because one of the parents is at a certain risk or one of the children themselves or another family member. After all, I hear a lot of signals from parents saying: I have a lot of problems with the compulsory education officer and with child care, because I do not dare to send my child to school because no measures are taken there. These measures are, of course, not mandatory there either. This is a very unpleasant situation for many parents, and I wonder what advice the Minister gives to both schools, compulsory education officials and parents. What can they do? We have compulsory education in the Netherlands, no right to learn. Parents who keep their children at home cannot therefore require a school to facilitate, for example, distance education. That is a very complex problem and I would like to hear the Minister's views on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u90	That has been very clear from the beginning, because it played right from the start. Of course, we have provided a great deal of space, especially for vulnerable children, to go to school, if possible, with the safety that must be guaranteed. This is initially a conversation to be held between the parents and the school. This also applies to teachers and their school leader. Tensions can also play there, although this has now become less because of vaccination, but in the first and second wave that was also a big topic. We cannot take care of that for them from The Hague. That will really have to be done at that level. There will also have to be some consideration as to what one considers appropriate. I have also seen many examples of a good way out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u91	Of course, it is always nice if the parties themselves can come to insights or solutions. Yet there are parents who say: but now I have youth care on the doorstep and now I have Safe Home on the sidewalk. It seems to me that every parent facing this is too much. Such a visit can have huge implications. What can The Hague do to prevent this? In my opinion, we really should not want children to be placed out of the house or under supervision because they are so vulnerable that they cannot go to school. That's something beyond their own power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u92	Mr Kwint mentioned an escalation ladder. These are, of course, the last things that happen when situations like this occur. They're not gonna put up with that either. Even during the first and second lockdown, the compulsory education officers didn't go by the doors with coupon books; that's what I call it. They have acted more supportively. What's going on here? Is anyone here? Sometimes students had actually disappeared under the radar for a while. Can we reconnect with school? If such situations arise and the compulsory education officer is also involved, the aim is to see what can be done as closely as possible. The aim is to make sure that children can go back to school. Mrs Simons will understand that, because we know that it is very harmful for children if they stay home for a very long time. And that is certainly true if distance education cannot be arranged for them directly. Sometimes it doesn't work out at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u93	My concern is not with the premise that you need to be able to get out of it with each other and that you need to prevent it from escalating. Let us assume that this principle is widely accepted. That's not what my question is about. My question concerns cases where it is likely to escalate, and in which parents have genuine fear of youth care. "Youth care is on the doorstep; what now?" What do we do in cases where it seems that there is no agreement on a good conversation and that a school, for example, cannot facilitate the education of such a student?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u94	In such a situation, it is really important that we just let the professionals, the compulsory education officers, the youth care professionals do their job. They're professionals. It is not for nothing that we have put them in a position where they can work with these families and students if they need to. I think it would be really bad if we said: we are not going to do that now. There too, there may be situations where it is really justified to intervene. But I would like to say once again: one also knows, especially in this time of corona, that in a situation of extreme urgency one should not go too quickly to such situations, because we are living in a very special time, with a virus that is afraid of and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u95	My final question on this point. I am concerned about the phrase: 'we must also let the professionals do the work'. Let us assume that we do not call professionals such a thing for nothing, that they take their job seriously and that they do not abuse the power that goes with it. The fact remains that there are more and more cases where professionals consider that they should intervene while parents have a legitimate reason. We have the mandate with the professionals. We have opportunities at the schools. But where is that parent's position? Where's the parent? It's nice to say, well, they're trained to do it, so they'll do it well. It's nice to assume that. But suppose you have a child who is in medical risk when going to school under these conditions, so it is not guaranteed that all measures will be maintained in all schools. Then it seems terrible to me if you are at risk of being confronted with child care, simply because you have a sick or vulnerable child. What the hell can we do to prevent escalation in such a situation? And what can the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u96	I am always in fairly permanent consultation with the educational field in all its shades, up to and including students. I will check whether such situations really exist at the moment. I myself have not received any concrete signals about this through the lines that are open to it, i.e. through the professionals and so on. But I will check that out and inform your Chamber at an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u97	Can you make an estimate: when about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u98	That will have to happen in the coming weeks, that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u99	For the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u100	I can accept that. Then the request whether I can forward the cases that reach me via parents' e-mails, so that the Minister can complete the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u101	I ask the Chamber for back numbers all the time. We are indeed talking very generally, so if you have situations that you say you would like to have them looked at, you can always do so. Mr President, I will make the switch to the NPO. A number of questions have been asked, particularly from the point of view of Members of Parliament who have entered the new Chamber and who have not yet had a place in the old Chamber as to why this programme should be implemented in this way and in terms of its duration. Mr Peters also asked a question about the term of office. Mr Ephraim and Mrs Van der Plas in particular asked why it was drafted in this way. A long story short. That was a question from the Chamber, a motion adopted unanimously, widely signed. That happened at the end of January. The Bruins cum suis motion asked the cabinet to present a national programme before 1 March. We have taken this very seriously, and we have also made it broad: all the education sectors. It was there February 17th. On 25 February we had a very large consultation with the Chamber. At that time, the Court also supported the programme which was subsequently implemented, with the amounts involved. About these amounts, we indicated that it was basically for two and a half years: the first half of the year, above all, to go through a few old schemes during the school year and to support the schools with regard to the implementation that came towards them. It was really a tough job for them and then two full school years for the programmes they had to make. We have very clearly agreed with the Chamber that in the spring of next year, 2022, i.e. the second monitoring, we will look very explicitly at the duration of the programme. There are even two accepted chamber motions. One asks for it to be extended by one year and the other for two years, they have both been adopted and that is quite special, but that is possible to look very closely at what is needed and possible here. I believe that monitoring has made it very clear that there have been considerable learning delays on a number of fronts. In any case, that has underlined the importance for me that we do not allow students to be carried away for years. Especially when it comes to basic skills that you actually need for your entire school development, we can't say: well, we will in two or three years. No, then you'd like them to get to work on that as soon as possible. This is also what the schools are committed to in the programmes. It is important that we do this carefully. The schools have been assured of the amounts for the first and second years. Sometimes one could make choices from the menu. They did not apply for one, but for two years, so that they had the certainty that money would come for that. It is very important that we now also offer schools together the opportunity to take further action. They do. I see a lot of places. I go to schools. At the moment, this is happening more digitally. I've had conversations with teachers and school leaders, again this week. Then you can see that this programme has been taken up with great motivation. There are questions and concerns. Some of them are also expressed by the Chamber. That has already happened at the start. One concerns the question of whether there is sufficient staff available. We would very much like to apologize for the English word "evidencebased interventions." We want interventions that have been tried and that we know can have effect. I shall come back to the quality of education in a few moments' time. We see that schools have removed different types of interventions from the menu, including interventions that require extra human power from them. And it turns out that there are schools that have just succeeded. That's what I hear in the conversations. What kind of human force is that? Then where did these people come from? Sometimes they are qualified teachers, but very often they are also supportive staff. For example, we can see that sometimes staff from the BSO have become involved in supporting teachers, so that these teachers can take a very focused approach to the learning delays. Mr Beertema said in his speech: no one wants to go to class anymore. Here, of course, is the problem of staff shortages. It is true that that is a big issue. That has already happened in the previous cabinet period, we have had to deal with this whole cabinet period and I can already predict that. It will remain an important topic and must remain so in the next cabinet period. We have been able to make investments, even with a lot of structural money. EUR 1.3 billion has been invested in addressing the staff shortage. That includes the 500 million that the Chamber has made available to the General Political Reviews through the motion, but it is large money, 1.3 billion. In addition, occasional money has been made available, sometimes for a number of years. Think of the covenants with the G5, in which money has been made available for four years. And money from the National Education Programme has also been made available. So a lot of money has been made available. In the last general consultation that was less than a month ago, so I am not going to repeat all these figures. I have been able to indicate what that has done in the formations. It is about teachers, as well as support staff, people we have been able to get out of the WW and go back to school. In short, many people have come back to education or added extra to education. But the labour market is adrift. Perhaps you will remember that in the general consultation I mentioned the second quarter figures of the CBS on labour shortages. The third quarter figures are now known. They were published this week. The tension on the labour market has only increased further. There's a huge job vacancy rate. It compares the number of vacancies per 1,000 jobs. In the second quarter there were 39 and it has already risen to 43. This is also the case in education. But if we look at the ranking of the sectors, which is not to make it smaller, then we can see that education is not at the top. But also in education we see that there are 18 vacancies per 1,000 jobs. This week's CBS figures have also shown that new jobs have been created in certain sectors from the second quarter to the third quarter. Luckily, education is part of that. 5,000 jobs have been added. In the care, 3,000 went off. So it varies by sector. But I'm not gonna play nice weather here. It's an incredibly difficult issue. It weighs heavily on education. That's where the corona situation comes in. We will have to continue to do so in full. I cannot say much about a new cabinet period, but I do not doubt for a second that a new cabinet will take it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u102	When I say "no one wants more for class," it's of course rhetorical. People still want to go to class, but rhetorically it sounds better when you say no one wants to go to class anymore. But to come back to that, a long time ago, I tabled a motion aimed at the enormous number of parttime workers working in education. That motion called for a financial incentive in the form of a full-time bonus, which would allow a lot of those people to get to work. That motion has been widely adopted. I find it so strange that, despite the urgency that you seem to express, such a motion simply disappears into the official mills and is put on the long track, while I think it would be a wonderful tool to solve a very large part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u103	We've been nicely reporting to you on the execution of this motion. This was even wider; my colleague was also involved. We have had a lot of discussions about this, including with Finance and labour market law experts. That aspect is just attached to it. It is simply not possible to do that in a very generic way in accordance with laws and regulations. That even exceeds our Dutch legislation, even internationally. What we have applied is to give a labour market allowance in the places where we think it is necessary. I will come back to the questions about this later. That, by the way, was also a question from the Chamber. To that end, there has been a motion, which we have properly carried out. So that's what we applied. In the covenants with the G5 we also offered the opportunity to apply this. There have been two municipalities which, as Mr De Hoop called it, have taken their responsibility. That's right. They could have done that because we had made agreements with them and had given money to do it. This was also applied in The Hague and Amsterdam in this way. That's what we picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u104	And did that sod put on the dike?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u105	That's very hard to cut with scissors. At the moment of increasing labour market shortages, you never know exactly what the consequences will be if you have done something. If you don't, you know the numbers would probably have been much more dramatic. In December there will always be previews of the situation in five years' time and in ten years' time. If we then look at the developments in recent years, we can see that we have really made a gap in the long-term deficits, which is what I mean in a positive sense. However, unabated deficits are still projected. That underlines what I just said: we will have to keep going. I once called that "rowing against the current." If you stop rowing when the current's hard, you're sure you're gonna get worse. We're gonna have to stay on edge with each other and do what's possible. This is one possibility, which we have also fully exploited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u106	A little bit further on that, Mr President. Yesterday, my motion on the accumulation of these temporary contracts did not make it. Too bad. What's that got to do with anything? Was that the idea as formulated in the motion? Has that met with practical objections? I can see that the entire coalition voted against it. BET1 also voted against, very wonderfully, when it comes to the accumulation of temporary contracts. I don't understand a damn thing about motivations like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u107	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u108	My question is: how could we have solved that? You doubted it, but I still get all kinds of confirmation that people are leaving education because they are stuck with these temporary contracts for years. In one school they have to leave, then they go to another school, and then the same regime goes back into one temporary contract after another. They can't mortgage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u109	I am not, of course, talking about the voting behaviour of the Chamber, so I cannot answer that. What I can do, and what I did at the general consultation in October, is put on paper that there is simply very clear legislation on what temporary contracts may be awarded on the labour market. The Chamber itself once made the choice, and I know that the PVV did not vote for it at the time, but a majority of the Chamber decided to extend the possibility from two to three. That happened a few years ago. In the collective agreements set out in the p.o. I would like to say that we have been very tightly welded into the box, and I would almost say that what could possibly be additional. There is therefore nothing additional going on in the vo, so we simply have to comply with these laws and regulations. In the p.o. it is possible when it comes to replacing with disease, but that too is limited. Education is really doing very well in that regard. Mr President, then there are the questions about the 500 million made available for, among other things, the USA. There is even an amendment on the table, but I will respond to that later. We've been asked if there's any more money to go to the vso. In October, I reported that we had 500 million structurally available in the Hermans motion for a resolution at the General Political Reviews, which was supported by everyone. I have agreed with the social partners who conclude the collective agreements, including next year, that it is one of the priorities. They have indicated that they are going to work with this, so I have good hope that we will also see this in the collective agreement result for 2022. Let's hope they don't wait too long. I have also asked them to speed up this, but that must of course be done in a responsible way. Then, in principle, there is enough money to fund all the VS teachers at vo-level. That is the 60.5 million that is also included in the amendment. That can be taken out of the 500 million. In fact, we also asked to work with that. It's still going on. In that respect, I find such an amendment a little strange. At the moment when the social partners are working to implement this, we are actually saying that one priority does not have to, and we are going to deal with it in a different way. I don't know if that's the point, but that does seem a little bit like it. Then there is the question of whether we can also take a next step towards making it a full part of the continuing education collective agreement. The amount of 60.5 million, including 16.5 million previously made available, is needed for the remuneration. It's gonna take a lot more money. We've already calculated that once. If you really want to transfer all vso teachers, and also the staff, the amount that should be available is up to 300 million. Then something will happen around the hours of class. If this were to be done in one go, it would also require 25% more teachers. Those are choices that this cabinet can no longer make in missionary state, you will understand. It is up to a new cabinet and a new coalition to make statements, if necessary, but these are the costs involved. Then there is the question of powers. In the vso you can now work with a pabo-power. So if you're going to the vo, something has to be arranged for that too. So it's quite complex. The question of the questions that have been asked about this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the quality of education. In the menu that has been drawn up, we have explicitly included evidence-based interventions; I just mentioned it in that bad Dutch. We have done so very emphatically, because we want the right steps to be taken with regard to the basic skills, which are so important. Mr Peters spoke about this, but I also thought Mr Bishop, Mr Beertema and Mr Van Meenen. Some of you have at least paid attention to this. It is incredibly important that we do this with each other in a good way. It's the first time we've worked like this. I hope that this will become a method that will also be applied more widely in the longer term, that we will support education in this way in the field of interventions that need to be carried out and that we will take them with us on the effects it can have if you do or do not do certain interventions. Following a motion tabled in the Chamber, we are also having discussions with the educational publishers about the fact that this should also be reflected in the methods. These discussions have also begun as a result of this motion. If there is more to be said about this, we will of course report it to you. Mr. Chairman. It is also very important that schools, and of course the students behind them, know what students should know and be able to do. Mr Peters asked for confirmation of this, and I can also confirm that this is important. We also know that the definitions that are now in the core targets, for example, are sometimes so common that they create confusion. It is important that there is more focus in that. This applies to the basic skills, but also to the wider ones, when it comes to what is required of schools. Well, as you know, that trajectory runs. The Chamber itself has stated that it wants us to give priority to this issue, particularly in relation to the key areas. We have started to call it "core subjects"; that is not an official term from law and regulation, but it has become speech use. In addition, we think it is very important that the reading offensive is continued. We've made arrangements with your room about that, too. It is, of course, up to a new cabinet to decide what it would like additional in that respect, and this Chamber will then have to give its opinion on it. But we have talked about this on a regular basis in the past period. I think this is really gonna find its way, but that's up to a new cabinet. It is important, however, that we allow reading to take place very sharply in schools. This is also happening from the National Education Programme. Madam President, I think it is a good thing that I should say one thing about something that, I think, has come back in three contributions. That's that about a quarter of the students would go as functional illiterate from school. I have said something about it before; I think it was also in the case of budgetary treatment. We do have concerns about reading. That "functional illiterate" is reflected in the PISA study from 2018. This also took place in 2013. So in two years, another investigation will be on the table. We have seen that there has been an increase in the number of pupils at risk of being illiterate, or at least low-lettered. A risk. Especially in the case of 15-year-olds, there are problems that have also made PISA sharp with what we call "understandable reading": reading long texts and making them your own. In addition, it relates to the reading pleasure. That too is very low in the Netherlands. If you don't maintain that, then you run risks in the longer term. But that does not mean that 25% of the students who are now leaving secondary school in the Netherlands are functionally illiterate. I don't think they'll even get their degree. So let us make every effort, even with such a reading offensive in the years to come, perhaps even more extensive, to ensure that this subject is taken up very well and firmly in schools and that, where this is not yet done, basic skills are central. I am convinced that the choice menu we made from the NPO and the financial support that has been provided in addition to the read-offensive programme can make a really good contribution to this. Mr. Chairman. With regard to equality of opportunity, in the National Education Programme, we have also ensured that additional funding goes to schools that, given the student population, have pupils in their midst who are simply at greater risk. That is not only what I am saying, in particular, in the direction of Mrs Simons, but occasional money. In fact, there really is a lot of structural money going to this very subject. Municipalities receive annual grants, and this is also reflected in the budget for '22... 520 million structuralally for this subject. And we have made its distribution fairer during this cabinet period, because it happened with old indicators. P.o. schools receive more than 300 million structuralally. And I am not talking about the NPO funds that have been added separately. And for the vo we have the so-called learning materials, and that is also about 48 million and also structural money. In addition, we are investing my colleague already gave this very much That is incredibly important, because it is precisely these transition moments that are very risky. The Equal Opportunities Alliance, which existed for five years this year, has begun very small and has grown firmly. If all goes well, next year we'll even go to the 100 municipalities that work together. These are very intensive collaborations at local level, which also creates many more connections and the'say' is not only a problem for these schools. We have given handouts to schools and also supported them when it comes to giving promising school advice. That's what I shared with your room. So there's a lot of hard work on all fronts, especially for these kids. And they deserve it. We do it financially, we do it with measures. I say again immediately: we must continue to do so. And here too, I have no doubt that a new cabinet will take that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u110	I am very pleased, of course, that the outgoing minister is still here stressing what structural funds have been deployed. At the same time, I understand that... I am referring specifically to the reading offensive, in 2020 and 2021. Actually, two things about that. Students who benefit from it suffer from corona. We're all suffering from corona, but so are those students. So under pressure from corona........................................................................................................................................................... I have to cheat: the reading offensive was carried out with limited resources in 2020 and 2021, and nothing is settled in the budget for the coming year because it is poor. So I'm a little confused when I hear such a conflicting message from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u111	The reading offensive is a means which sometimes goes through, but which we have already agreed on with each other in relation to its use. What is involved in the reading offensive is that there are indeed desires to extend it even further; for example, there are connections with libraries at school and the like. In short, there are still a lot of additional requirements, including to meet them. We must do so, and I hope you will understand that. But that is without prejudice to the fact that some of the agreements we have now reached will continue in the coming year. It's not like it's gonna stop now. And the great thing is that the NPO can also use resources from the schools that further strengthen that reading offensive. So that's what they're getting money for, and even for two years of school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u112	I have my concerns as to where that unearned money is going from NPO already expressed in my contribution, so I'm gonna leave that for now because of the time and the limited interruptions. The minister was just talking about equality of opportunity. Then I wonder whether he will also speak separately about discrimination, so removing it. Because then I would like to ask a question about the Ihbtqia+ young people who are in school. And if I don't, I'm gonna have to do it now, so that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u113	What block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u114	The answer was in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u115	Written reply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u116	That has indeed been answered in writing, and I would like to have an explanation of this, because in the written reply... I'm gonna have to grab it anyway, Mr. Chairman. Look, my question was: why 90% instead of 100%? The written answer says, among other things, that you should leave that 10% room for those who think differently. That can also be interpreted as: we must leave 10% room to accept discrimination and exclusion. So I'd still like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u117	Of course, there can be no discrimination and exclusion of this kind. I think that we have also had a strong debate on this recently, on the basis of situations that had occurred. That is not acceptable, and it is simply being dealt with. My colleague has, in my view, answered your question in writing. I think it might add up in the second term, but the stakes are of course very high, and we have put our legislation in place to ensure that we want a safe school for everyone, regardless of what your sexual orientation is or other factors that may make you something other than the majority of the school. Everyone must be able to have a safe school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u118	Your last interruption, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u119	If the Minister comes back to it in the second term, can I ask whether she would also like to come back to the fact that she refers to a study where 92% of the respondents say that homosexual men and women should be free to express that identity? "Homosexual men and women" does not cover at all the cargo of lhbtqia+ people. So it's very nice that we're already ready to say, "Well, as if we're going to do that people can do what they want, but for example, the anti-transsentiments in our country are growing terrifyingly. So I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u120	The Minister nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u121	Yes. I see my colleague writing the question down, so I am sure that will happen. Then questions have been asked about labour benefits, which we have already discussed several times. The following specifically in the direction of Mr Van Meenen, who asked for it. We sometimes get signals about that, but I'm telling you, there aren't many of them that come into our house. But if we find that schools don't run it, then we just act. Or if they do it differently than we intended. Let me give you one very concrete example that has also reached the media. Emmen wanted to do it all his own way. That was a school group that was still under the responsibility of the municipality. We've been in touch and we've been able to handle this in a good way. The municipality has put some money in it itself, totally fine. We've been in touch with Rotterdam. In short, there are contacts. If you have any examples yourself and if you would like to have the back numbers again, please let us know; then we will perform. Those are actually the questions Mr Bishop asked. We have dealt with them a few times before, the last time also at the general consultation Teachers. The tricky thing remains that I would have preferred to have dealt with the royal road; that the social partners had done this turn. They didn't want to do that for their magical reasons. In the end, we respected that. I didn't really have a choice either, otherwise I should have given money back to Finance. It was a question, a motion, of the Chamber, of the Labour Party and the Animal Party. The previous spokesmen submitted them, and I think they were adopted by a large majority. So we looked for another way. We knew that was a complex road, and what we keep running into now, are indeed just those border situations: can it, can it not? But it was the Chamber itself that asked for this. I looked at it a little further: Mr Bishop's group also voted in favour of it. And the schools have now been told that this is how we do it, huh? So we're not going to throw that all of a sudden; that would be inappropriate governance. The CUMI scheme. I indicated in the letter of 2 November, but also in the debate, that we are now working on how things can be different. That is what we are talking about with education, but also with the CBS. If we have a little more solidity in that, we will inform your Chamber. And it would be good if we did that in a good way. Then there's the commitment of others other than those involved in the school. I'll just call it that way. Some say "they're commercial parties," but there's really a huge diversity in that. I've talked about that before. From the first monitoring we do not really have many signals that that happens very big. But I say this honestly: that was a question at the very beginning of the course year, when a lot of things had to get going. I'm assuming we'll have more information at the second monitor in the spring of '22. What we ourselves see on the basis of our samples is what I said just now, namely that there are also other supporters in the school who are especially able to get care of the teachers, so that they can concentrate very much on working with small groups, for example, which is one of the interventions that is being applied very much. I have already told Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld about advertising in the schools that we passed on this subject for just a year through Corona. We have already discussed this in general consultations in October. On the basis of Mr Futselaar's motion, who replaced Mr Kwint, a hand-out was prepared on the basis of the education of the schools on how to deal with the issue of third-party support. I know that the schools use it in practice. In the second monitoring we will have some more data on this subject. Mr Kwint asked me: do you want to prevent municipalities from contributing to, for example, homework institutes? That really is a responsibility of the municipalities. I mentioned the example of Groningen in October. I had seen a very good example there. For a long time, students have been used for them, if there is a city pass, they have a special name for it in Groningen, which I will not be able to pronounce, because that is going to be a mistake to add to it, as well as all kinds of other things that the municipality does from the educational resources to further support this group, regardless of what happens in the school. So there really are initiatives that I think Mr Kwint could get a little excited about. But once again, that's what the municipalities themselves are about in the end. In the second monitoring, we will be able to get back to it a little more concretely, because it will then be taken even tighter into the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u122	Yes, I must say that, after a day and a half of budget debate, 'quite enthusiastic' is about the maximum achievable of my emotional spectrum at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u123	Let's give it a shot!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u124	I'll do my best. But of course, I'm not always talking about commercial tutoring for nothing. Initiatives in which students help students who are lagging behind are, of course, of a very different order, unless it is also intended to make a lot of money. I really cannot escape the impression that the use of the NPO funds is being made massively of the Lyceos of this world, despite the explicit desire of the Chamber to prevent it. We're gonna see that again on the monitor, but I'm curious what we're gonna do about it when it turns out that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u125	First of all, in the letter I sent you in connection with the first monitoring, I indicated that we ourselves, of course, have a lot of conversations with teachers and schools; that also applies to my officials, who have looked at what we now see from our positions. You were able to read in the letter what we'd find. That is not that there is a complete "wild growth" or "explosion" like the terms you took in your mouth in your first term. Last Monday I had a meeting with a very large group of teachers from schools. There was one person who called himself "zzp'er," but who was working from an organization. They even complained that they were so little involved. I indicated that I actually thought that was a very good signal. But that doesn't mean it won't happen. We really need to investigate that. On the basis of the information we receive, of course, we will have to examine with each other whether it is indeed necessary to do all kinds of things in it. But of course the schools have also been given a piece of autonomy by us to make choices with each other if they involve their mrs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u126	Yes, but as far as I am concerned, this autonomy does not extend to the extent that schools can make the choice to pay for the skiing holidays of these expensive agencies. But I'm going back to the first proposal I made. I did not say: impose municipalities that they should not cooperate. My question was to talk to municipalities to see what you can do to make sure that with all our efforts to counter that commercial part of the tutoring market, we are ultimately not driven into the wheels by what is happening at municipal level in terms of social property, lower rents and grant support. That was the question I had. Try to do it together with the congregations. I understand you can't impose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u127	As part of the Corona approach and the NPO, the municipalities do indeed have a function. I can assure Mr Kwint that we will discuss with the municipalities in the run-up to the second progress report. If there is anything more specific to be said about this, we will, of course, take it with us. Then Mrs Pouw-Verweij raised a very interesting subject on a social and emotional level and the responsibility that schools have or do not have for it. In the menu we made a very conscious choice not only to allow it to be cognitive, because we have noticed that, even in the foundational education, considerable social-emotional blows have been made by corona and that students are really suffering from it. This is now apparent from the first progress report. We tried to include interventions in the menu that can really be applied in a good way and are evidence-based, to use that word again. So we gave schools hand-outs, so they can use them when they do something. We notice, also from the reports, that municipalities assume their responsibilities there, sometimes with the use of school psychologists if necessary. The ggz sometimes gets an extra opportunity to do something. You know how long the waiting lists are for young people. Family coaches are used sometimes. Schools also try to do things they can do within their profession, because there is a limit to that. For example, as a teacher, you shouldn't be playing amateur psychologist. You have to leave that to professionals. But people are well aware of it. This was also evident from the discussions I had this week on this subject and I referred to just now. Schools are strongly committed to strengthening the executive skills, as we call them. They also suffered a blow from corona. Think about working together, when group do things together. There's a lot of bets on that. Sport and culture are also used. We are very pleased with the opportunity that has now been given by the National Education Programme to make this possible, because it often costs money. Then standards and values. That is a very interesting subject. We can talk about this for hours, otherwise Mr Peters and his party will. They have raised this issue very prominently in the past, but they do not own it, even though Mr Peters did speak of this budget treatment on behalf of the Christian Union. Of course, it's wider. It is a subject that concerns us all very much. Know that with the citizenship-building law, on that very point, we specifically ask the schools to proceed with these kinds of subjects. Think of the association with each other, the association with those who may be slightly different from most in the group and the responsibility they bear for that. Think about the safe school we were just talking about. It is precisely with the Citizenship Act, which entered into force on 1 August that this subject is once again on the agenda. It cannot be based on one subject, but one will have to create a climate in which one respects one another in the school. Mr. Chairman. That reminds me of the late Mr Van der Vlies, I must say. I'm sure he'll be remembered in the Chamber again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u128	Tuesday, next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u129	I remember when he said goodbye, he called very strongly for respect and good relations with each other. I do like to mention his name here, because I think Education was his favourite committee and he has done a lot of budgetary treatment. 'The mother of the committees', said Mr Van de Camp, who has been chairman for years, always. The Registrar has also been through Mr Van der Vlies for a very long time and has always done her work with great love to this day. So it's important. Let us still take to heart the message that Mr Van der Vlies left with us at the time. Let us think with great respect and appreciation of what he has done for politics and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u130	Before you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u131	Then I come to my last block before I go to the amendments. Just a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u132	Yes. Mrs Pouw-Verweij, JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u133	I have one short question. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. As for the first part, my concern was indeed that we would expect too much from teachers, for example that they would also act as psychologists. I very much welcome the clear clarification in this area. After this answer, I still have a bit of a question to ask whether we are seeing problems with social-emotional development, especially after the past period, i.e. corona-related.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u134	That has been going on for a long time, so it is indeed a bit more structural. But Corona has, in a manner of speaking, put the spotlight on this, as is the case with the equality of opportunity and inequality. You just see that Corona really did something. I was told last week examples, for example of what happened to girls who are in the superstructure of the vo. There are sometimes really serious situations. It's a big game. It's important that we pay attention to it. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld asked questions about appropriate education in the "other things" block. You know that last year, on the anniversary that you yourself celebrated and my twin sister, we made agreements on how we continue to deal with it. We've been working on that in the past year. You will receive the first progress report on this in December. So it's coming very soon. You specifically asked about the educational care arrangements. At the moment, the draft decision has been consulted on the Internet. So we have already prepared this completely and it is now in internet consultation. Meanwhile, we started in May with the test areas that we would do prior to that. The initiative "Together for School" classes mentioned by you is involved. I've informed you that we are in close contact with them. I personally did that twice. I've had two pretty extensive consultations with them. They hitchhike, I would say, with these initiatives, but that is quite right, because it is very nice and good what they do. I've informed you of The Monk's Cap. The Board has expressly stated that this initiative is not intended to end. There is a problem with the establishments and the shrinkage of pupils that is taking place there, but the board has said that the initiative is continuing. We will, of course, follow that. The funding is arranged in a slightly different way. I've informed you about that, too. We've given a lot of space to organize that in time. It even goes on until 2027, I say out of my mind. It will then have to be taken up further by the partnerships, as happens in other places, with even more of these fine initiatives. We will continue to follow that closely. We're really holding our finger on the wrist. I've been doing that for the past few weeks, and I will continue to do so. Mrs. Paul has asked questions about gift. As you know, structural funds have already been allocated for this purpose in 2015. A further 15 million have been added from the coalition agreement. We have made the subsidy scheme for this from the coalition agreement. We know that almost all the partnerships have been given extra money for this and have come up with initiatives. They were allowed to use them, and of course the schools behind them. We also continued to establish a knowledge centre for gifted people. Your predecessor as spokesperson has drawn attention to this. That too is now in the scaffolding. We are working very hard to do that in a good way. I hate to say it, but it has to be tendered. There's all the rules for that, but it's gonna happen. It's coming. Through the Stichting Leerplan Development, SLO, we are also working on very targeted handouts for teachers on how to deal with highly gifted students, even when it comes to dealing with the substance, especially the exam substance, which they need to make their own. For that we have made handouts that now also get a place in the schools. The same applies to the mentoring of highly gifted students. I dare say that a lot has happened on that front over the past period, not only because of your predecessor as spokesman, who has done a lot of work on it, but also because of others in this Chamber. We're gonna have to keep going through that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Paul and then Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u136	Thank you to the Minister for his reply. Perhaps a small supplementary question after all. During the corona crisis, when children had to learn from home, we saw that working remotely and taking online lessons especially for many gifted children, who had fallen out at an earlier stage, worked very well. Teachers and parents I spoke to said: are they lessons that we can go through to the future? My question is actually: do we take those best practices from the corona period, which unfortunately we are still in the middle of, specifically for this group and perhaps also for many other children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u137	Of course, we always see if we can learn lessons from situations that have occurred, sometimes because of not such fine causes. This is part of that, too. There is simply room for schools, in the context of experiments, to deal with something else with the way the days are classified and with the presence at school. This is a subject that we will discuss even further in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u139	Then I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u140	There's a question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u141	I am almost at the end of the questions and then I go to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u142	Then we do the amendments and then we have the suspension for dinner. Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u143	I have a question about inclusive education and how we achieve it. In my contribution I mentioned a number of initiatives. I know the Minister also likes the initiative of letting children go to school together. The Monk's Cap is a very nice example of that. I am concerned about this and I am not the only one: students, parents and teachers of the school are also saying that it may become uncertain in the future, if you change the existing concept or its financing structure and leave it to partnerships. Then there could be a lot more bureaucracy, because you no longer have a fixed funding, but you sometimes have to deal with a lot of different partnerships. We know that this sometimes leads to a lot of bureaucracy. That's what I'm worried about. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that perhaps we should take a very good look at whether these very beautiful concepts fit in with the landscape as we now have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u145	And whether it does not lead too much to what Mr Van Meenen sometimes calls "administrative spaghetti." That's what I see happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u146	I have just indicated that the first progress report is due in December. It seems to me a nice subject to discuss in a more quiet setting as a result of the progress report. I think it is difficult to do that in the budgetary procedure. I find it complicated, if we sometimes give extra funding to give a temporary boost somewhere, to do so in a structural way everywhere, if we have also agreed in other ways on how to do so and if you see in many places in the country that it does work. But it seems to me to be a good topic to address in the progress report we have made together on appropriate education and the arrangements made with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u147	I asked a question yesterday, question 39, about the sponsor agreement. That has been answered. Then the Minister says: we do not currently have any means or legal framework to deal with this, but an evaluation is taking place. I've been neat with interruptions; I've placed one. I would like to give a brief example to make it a little more concrete. The sponsor agreement states that digital teaching materials and teaching materials should not contain advertising and should not contain incomplete and subjective information. If you look at what the practice is, I'll take back The Pig Story. Fertiliser says: "fertiliser is used to grow plants. Fertilisers contain good nutrients." But nothing is reported at all about the big problems of manure, about the huge problem of manure in the Netherlands and about the fact that nature suffers very much from manure. So it's very incomplete. Now I'm gonna take a closer look at the feeding of the pigs. Then it says that pigs get a lot of by-products: residues from human food processing 65%, from arable crops 25% and human food. Then you're at 100% residual production. But when I look at the site of the Food Centre, which is quite official, I see that it says: "Most soy is grown for animal feed. The space required for this is often at the expense of the jungle in South America or other nature. Soy for meat substitutes is usually grown sustainably in Europe or Canada." So the Food Center says the soy for pig food comes from South America and that's what nature, the jungle, is for. That ad leaflet, The Pig Story, says, no, it's all sustainable, it's all from residual products. Those are just lies, aren't they? Then you have to be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u149	What I want to ask the Minister is this. He writes that there will be an evaluation. Is he already prepared to go ahead with legal measures if that evaluation immediately leads to simply not being properly arranged? Then when you start with legal measures, you're very late. IenW's colleague did so with deposit money for plastic bottles and gave the industry the opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u151	And at the same time behind the scenes prepared legislation. Could the Minister do something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u152	This cabinet is deeply outgoing, as Mr Paternotte said so beautifully. So we are not going to take up all kinds of legislation. Looking at what I've agreed to with the Chamber, we've made arrangements around this covenant. At that time I offered room, also to the Party for Animals, to add additions. That was done by means of motions. Even when we couldn't do it anymore, we said: we're going to try. It worked. Now I just want to go into the evaluation with the other covenant partners. Then it is up to the next cabinet to assess, if that is what is needed, that we do not even know yet whether or not to take other measures, whatever they may be. I'm not gonna take the initiative for that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u153	I get that. I also understand why you're not saying right now: we're gonna come up with a law next year. But the minister could pre-sort on that. Then a next cabinet can finally see how that goes. But it would be a shame if we let go of this time. The evaluation will come soon, and then we will be at a disadvantage again. So the Minister can already say: we are going to see which way it is going. You can make preparations. And if it turns out to be fine in the end, you don't have to roll out that law. But you do have it like a stick behind the door, and he can really help the coming cabinet with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u154	It is unprecedented what is required of our legislative capacity at this time. So if we don't even have an evaluation yet, I'm not just gonna go from "my people," I'd almost say, ask for all kinds of other legislative initiatives to be taken up as well. Again, we really have our hands full with things. That is quite apart from the fact that, of course, the Chamber can always say that it wants to. But I just respect the covenant. We've agreed on these time periods. I'm not going into this case either. I can see Mrs. Van der Plas on the rise. That happened yesterday, of course, in the first term; then you get one against the other. I do not think we should do that here in this Chamber, but by means of an orderly evaluation. It will bring what really went well, and perhaps also what did not go well with the covenant. Again, this is already being started in the beginning of next year, so that we can finally get results from it in the course of 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u155	One last question and you'll be out of my hands with a little luck. I have a very small question for the Minister's colleague. Is it perhaps useful, for example, to present examples that can be used in the evaluation? For it would be a shame if such examples were not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u156	I still have no idea how this evaluation is going to be organised. We might as well have that done externally. Of course, we can already make a collection of examples. Of course, you can do anything, but I also think that an evaluation should be organised in an orderly manner. So now, taking care of a few things, I think it's a little premature. We have not even set out a path for evaluation. But you said it here. I can promise you that we will inform the Chamber as soon as we start. I do not know how big it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u157	One last question to the Minister of OCW. I wasn't able to get through your lockdown a moment ago. I had one more question about the BPRC. It was answered in question 40. I asked about BPRC's money for animal-free innovations. That's 2.3 million. Part of this goes to animal-free innovation, but also to some extent to animal welfare. I said, can't that be earmarked? The Minister writes: we are not going to sit in the chair of governance and science. But animal-free innovation is really something other than animal welfare. So I'd think it's a shame if that was used in the wrong way. Actually, that's why I said, "Don't make a split." What is the type of test animal-free research method and what can you possibly use to improve animal welfare? I don't think you're gonna sit on the chair of science. I just think that as a director, as a minister, you say: this is going to improve animal welfare. However, I would like a slightly more detailed answer, and I think this could be done in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u158	Maybe in the second term? I see the Minister of OCW nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u159	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the amendments. The amendment in part No. 17...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u160	I'll check on Mrs. Van der Plas. Is it still necessary? Yeah, it's still necessary. I don't think you've had a cup of coffee with Mr. Wassenberg, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u161	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u162	You're gonna notice that around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u163	Look, it seems a little silly to go into this now, but I'd like to do that, because farmers were actually accused of lying here. I am committed to sticking to the facts and figures before all this is going to lead its own lives. I will ask my question, but I would like to have the opportunity to say a few words about it. My question is: if Mr Wassenberg and I are going to have coffee, perhaps I would also like to have someone from the Ministry of Education with me, and then take a look at it with the three of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u164	A mediator?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u165	Well, a mediator... But then we'll just take a quick hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u166	We're not gonna do that. Apart from the fact that it is always nice to drink coffee, this is about the sponsor agreement, about its implementation. I have just indicated that clear agreements have been made with the Chamber on the evaluation. We're not gonna do that evaluation during a coffee call. We're not gonna act like some kind of mediator between what one says here and the other. We're gonna decorate it carefully. The Chamber shall be informed thereof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u167	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u168	I've offered some room to give input for that, but we're not gonna do it with a coffee call. I don't think that's very careful either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u169	With your permission, Mr President, I would like to clarify a little. The food residues that pigs eat are largely the peels or skins of the soya bean. So those are the remains. People can't eat that, so that goes to cattle feed. And for only 8% of pigs, 8% of pigs are only soy residues. So it is not necessary to pretend that the pigs in the Netherlands are eating up the whole of the Amazon, when trees have been cut down there. Finally, it is also very important that Dutch livestock farming uses sustainable soy, with a difficult word "RTRS." That's sustainable soy. This is soy for which no forests are harvested in the Amazon. So I just wanted to straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u170	Here's to it. Maybe I can give you an opinion: you can always use your deadline for that, because this is not really an interruption to the Minister. You still have a second-term contribution. I say the same to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u171	I do not intend to do the agricultural debate here, but I would like to make a personal statement. Mrs van der Plas accused me of calling the farmers liars. I didn't say that. I did say that the information booklet on pig farming, The Pig Story, is a lying story. That's really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u172	It's been noted. I shall then give the floor to the Minister to lead us through the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u173	Yes. The amendment in part No. 17 I have to dissuade because of the cover. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 21. For the De Hoop amendment in part No. 25 is the same: dissuade because of the coverage and because we need to talk even further about the evaluation with each other. The amendment in part No. 27 isn't for me, so I don't have to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u174	That amendment had already been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u175	Yeah, that was dissuaded. Then there is the amendment to item No. 30, about the vso. I've already said something about that. I would advise against that amendment. We are waiting to see how the collective bargaining process is going, and money has already been made available. The amendment in part No. 32 I can judge Chamber, because that is part of the citizenship support that can be given and this can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u176	And the amendment to item No. 28, members of Westerveld and De Hoop, for funds for a student travel product?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u177	That's not for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u178	For practical education students, from Westerveld and De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u179	I'll take a look. Yeah, I got it right here. It's also about adult education. I should also advise against that amendment, given the coverage given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u180	Okay, then I'd like to thank the rulers for... Oh, there's one more question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u181	Yes, I have one more question about our amendment to ensure that pupils in practical education and the vavo can also receive an O.V. card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u182	That is the amendment to item No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u183	Yes, it's a good thing you clarified that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u184	That is the last amendment I have just said about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u185	Yes, we did last year, of course... Well, I say "of course," but not everyone here knows that. We also had a discussion on this last year. Then we heard: first let's outline the options that exist. Well, those options have come. There's a report now that says what it costs. We also know what the benefits are, namely that it will reduce the drop-out of a number of students, for a number of young people, so I have to say, for whom it is sometimes very necessary that they can attend education that suits them and obtain a diploma. That's why I don't get it so well. It is a relatively small amount and it is very useful for this group of vulnerable pupils. And then we hear again that the amendment is not recommended. I would like the Minister to answer the question as to what we should do in order to find a solution for these students.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u186	With the amendment that has now been tabled and submitted to me, I also have to look very closely at the funding and coverage you are proposing. Coverage is taken from another amendment to the Tax Plan. That's just not solid coverage. You know that I always think along with you, including on the financing of things; sometimes we find something with each other and sometimes we don't. But at least this is not solid coverage, so I can only advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u187	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u188	We would very much like a solid cover. But I find it complicated that, if the coalition comes up with an amendment, something can be arranged immediately. That is why it is sometimes very complicated to sit in this kind of debate. You feel like you're trying very hard for a certain group of students. We've been working on this for over a year, there's a report that says why it's useful, we know why this particular group of kids benefits, and we get to hear these things every time. Then I'd like to ask the Ministry if we could be given some thought to how we can get that cover solidly and... well, well, I think I've said enough about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u189	Just looking back at the past few years: if it was possible, you know, then we gave space and thought actively along. This cover can't be. She's not valid. I also think you'll know if you know where you got the cover. The coverage of the Pouw amendment is possible, for example. There's always a way to find something. I do not know whether that will work towards the votes on the amendments. We still have some time. But I cannot help but dissuade this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u190	Yes, thank you. The first petitioner is Mrs Westerveld. You have already asked two questions about the amendment. Unless you want to ask something completely different. No. Then Mr De Hoop of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u191	I would like to make one more point to underline this point by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u192	We're not gonna do that. Mrs Westerveld is the first to submit the amendment and has asked two questions. Otherwise, we are going to have all kinds of co-sponsors react to an amendment. I don't think we should. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. I suggest we suspend for 45 minutes until 8:15. And then we start with the second term on the side of the Chamber, followed by the second term on the side of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u193	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science, the second term of office. I just checked with Mr. Beertema. Mrs Gündoğan must leave early because of private circumstances, and that is why she will be the first speaker, with the approval of my fellow Members. Thank you to Mr Beertema for his flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u194	Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to Mr Beertema for understanding. That's very much appreciated, thank you very much. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Universities Initiative is a global unique initiative in the fields of education, research, valorisation, digitisation and internationalisation;]] [[noting that this initiative significantly contributes to achieving a long-term impact on education innovation and knowledge circulation within Europe;]] [[noting that there is currently no national funding for this programme, whereas this is the case in countries such as Croatia, Poland, Cyprus, Finland and Italy;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways to promote education renewal through the European Universities Initiative, to draw up an action plan on this basis and to emphasise itself as a pioneer of the European Universities Initiative at national level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u195	A second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that based on the PISA results, the level of reading skills in the Netherlands has a negative trend and that Dutch students score the lowest of all countries on reading motivation;]] [[noting that campaign interventions such as the Read Offensive have not led to the desired improvements;]] [[Whereas basic skills are of great importance for the equality of pupils and the fight against intergenerational poverty;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a concrete longer-term action plan with clear ambitions over cabinet periods, in order to score significantly higher at the overall basic skills level (and thus at the PISA scores) in 10 years' time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Monitor Mental Health and Resource Use Students show that mental complaints are above average among, among others, international students;]] [[noting that international students are considered to be employed for at least 56 hours a month before they are eligible for study funding from DUO;]] [[noting that this represents an average of 14 working hours per week, often in addition to completing a full-time study;]] [[Whereas this may lead to stress and, if (unforeseen) circumstances cannot meet the 56-hour standard, this may also lead to financial difficulties, in particular for students from less wealthy families;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the number of hours worked for international students to be eligible for study funding from 56 hours per month to 32 hours per month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan and Mr De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr De Hoop, Mr Simons and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u197	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Then I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u198	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministers for answering our questions. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 80,000 international students are now studying in the Netherlands at the expense of Dutch taxpayers;]] [[noting that these 80,000 international students place disproportionate pressure on social services and housing;]] [[noting that universities have sounded the alarm clock on the massive influx of international students;]] [[whereas Dutch taxpayers have a duty at first instance to serve Dutch students;]] [[calls on the Government to restore Dutch as a language of teaching to the universities in full width, with the exception of justified exceptions, with the note that foreign students are still welcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u199	The second motion is an appeal to the Chamber. This reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nearly a quarter of 15-year-olds leave education as functional illiterate;]] [[Whereas personalised education and self-discovery learning are not evidence-based;]] [[believes that children can only acquire knowledge and skills in an environment where peace, structure and discipline prevail;]] [[noting that the declining educational performance is a result of personalised education and self-discovery;]] [[calls on the negotiators of the new cabinet to include in the coalition agreement that personalised and self-discovered learning is stopped and replaced by evidence-based education that focuses on structure, knowledge and skills, in such a way that the Netherlands can once again compete with the world summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u200	Finally, I would like to say the following to the PvdA spokesperson. If I say that unequal opportunities are part of life, as well as bad weather, health and disease, and life and death are part of life, that doesn't mean that I accept unequal opportunities as something you let go of. It does mean, however, that the fact that there is inequality must be faced. Saying that you don't accept unequal opportunities is actually the same thing as saying that you don't accept bad weather. I accept the inequality that comes with life. You should start with that. Good and solid structured education is the instrument to change that; education as the great equalizer it once was, but it is no longer sufficient. I want to see that changed. That's what I meant. I do not accept that left-wing parties are pushing me into a frame that I would welcome inequality. I think that's cheap. I couldn't fix it last night because you, Chairman, turned off my microphone. I thought that was wrong, and that's why I'm saying it now. But it is going to go away from my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u201	Well, we're not gonna do that, especially since you say so kindly. Mr De Hoop of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u202	Mr Beertema and I disagree on a number of things, but I know that we both have a heart for education. He's worked in education for years, I think 34 years. If I have given the impression that Mr Bertema does not have that love for education, that was absolutely not my intention. I think we had a difference of opinion about how to deal with equality of opportunity. It's possible. When I debate, it is always based on content and never meant personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u203	Do you mind if I respond to that? I think it is a nice rebuttal, but as I said in my first term, I would like to tell you that it is precisely the children from our constituency, the children from the PVV, but also the children from the PvdA constituency, the children from the DENK constituency. Those are the children who so much need this structured education. To let go of these children's personalized education and that new learning, is frightening for the emancipation and upliftment of those pupils. That was my point. Chance inequality has existed since Adam and Eve and will continue to exist forever. It is precisely education that is the tool for correcting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u204	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Woude of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both ministers for their reply. Thank you also to Minister Slob for his fine words. I heard them, but I was still running down the hall with a glass of water. Sorry I was late. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that diversity in perspectives, theories and ideas is an important part of the science and vision of the Ministry of Science of 2019;]] [[noting that the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences (KNAW) concluded in 2018 that there are no signals that in science in the Netherlands there is structural self-censorship or limitation of diversity of perspectives;]] [[Considering that due to an increasing level of threat, intimidation and hate reactions to scientists there is an increasing risk of self-censorship and that according to the higher education inspection 14% of students do not feel free to express their views on the institution;]] [[believes that free science and education should never be hindered by differences in moral or political views or by the fact that scientists do not feel free to express themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate whether self-censorship and limitation of diversity of perspectives in science and higher education play a role, including the increasing threat, intimidation and hate reactions to scientists, and students' unfree feelings, and to come up with recommendations on how to protect the free speech of students and the safety of scientists within scientific truth finding at all times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Woude, Mr Peters, Mr Paternotte, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the ministers for answering our questions. I have tabled an amendment. I would like to stress the importance of this once again. That's the importance of everything being negotiable in a classroom. We ask a lot of teachers by asking them to do so. These days, there are all kinds of issues that cause polarisation and that ultimately, if they are not discussed in the classroom, can cause even more misery in our society. That is why this proposal seeks to ensure that teachers are further supported and that they are given the tools to do that important work. I am therefore extremely pleased that the amendment has been given Chamber judgment and I hope that we will find broad support for it in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u207	Thank you, Mrs Paul. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After one and a half days of talking about an extremely important sector, with major problems, I find it a bit harsh to note that at the end of this exercise we are likely to add the impressive amount of €500,000 to a budget of 44 billion. Anyway, we knew that yesterday after half an hour, when the coalition immediately shut the door and said there was nothing to change. They've been busy with themselves for six months. As far as I am concerned, this does not do justice at all to the major problems which education must face. The advantage is that the next budget treatment of Education will definitely improve. Well, then I have a few suggestions to make after all. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant differences between higher education institutions in relation to the relationship between flexible contracts and fixed contracts;]] [[invites the Cabinet to discuss with the Association of Colleges and the VSNU with a view to making binding agreements on a minimum percentage of fixed contracts within institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld, Mr De Hoop and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u209	Then there is the second proposal, which is about preventing the problem that more and more people in education go from flex contract to flex contract. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are teachers leaving education because they still do not receive a fixed contract after several temporary contracts;]] [[Whereas we need all these teachers very much in the fight against the shortage of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for a legal framework for teachers to be given a permanent contract after a six-month period with the possibility of extending an additional six-month period in the event of demonstrable doubt as to their functioning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u210	Then there's the mbo-stage fees. I simply do not agree with the Minister that this subject belongs by definition on the collective bargaining table. The government outlines the frameworks and within these frameworks employers and employees are in conversation. You can also simply withdraw an amount in those frameworks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant differences between the internship fees received by trainees in different sectors;]] [[Whereas the government pays its trainees €635 per month for a 40-hour workweek internship fees, regardless of the student's training;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that the internship allowance for all MBOs is aligned with that of the State's staff and to make provision for entrepreneurs for whom this is not financially feasible;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr De Hoop, Mr Bouchallichh, Mr Simons, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u211	With all those small parties, it's gotten easier to get a lot of names under your motion. Then there's the commercial tutoring. The minister said he's going to have a conversation. Of course, that's almost always a good idea. But as far as we are concerned, it could have been a little more concrete. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is an explosive increase in the creation and use of supplementary education through commercial education offices;]] [[Whereas, in addition to schools, municipalities can also facilitate these educational offices to make money from pupils;]] [[considers that education is not a market and that it should be restricted to commercial supplementary education, even outside the school walls;]] [[calls on the Government to make arrangements with municipalities to avoid facilitating financial or in-kind commercial tutoring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u212	And last but not least, maternity leave. Earlier, I realized with Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA that there will be a maternity leave for MBO students. Unfortunately, at HBO and university it is not yet ready. Well, since we're here, we might as well do something about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the right to maternity leave for students is enshrined in the MBO;]] [[Whereas this is not yet the case in higher education and this makes it different from one institution to another how they deal with pregnant students;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to legally anchor maternity leave in higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr De Hoop and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u213	And then I have a minute left! I'm sure I can give it to a colleague in another budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u214	I thought "to another group."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u215	At least not to Mr Van Meenen, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u216	Look! Thank you. Then I give the floor... Mrs Pouw-Verweij, you want to respond to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u217	If you don't mind. I am sure Mr Kwint will not be surprised that the issue of maternity leave is of great personal concern to me. So if I could still sign the motion, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u218	I think that's okay. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Van der Woude on speaking from this place as well. It was a nice maiden speech, but it didn't happen yesterday. I took care of the distraction myself by standing on this chair in a hoodie so called. This is my tenth budget and I have had many, many hours of budgetary treatment here. I've always done them neatly, like now, in suits, even with tie, grab one and brushed shoes. But then you do it in a hoody for 15 minutes and then everything happens. I was very happy about that too, because I didn't do it for nothing. That was to draw attention to a small vulnerable but very important group, where I have often wanted to pay attention in recent years. That's secondary special education. It's not just about those teachers, it's about those kids and those students. We have also talked a lot about the exams in corona. I have to say: I wish I had done it this way before, because I don't think there's ever been more attention to the vso than by this hoody. 'Cause that's the job I've been seeing for a long time now. Our task is very simple, because ultimately it is about offering opportunities and then it is about those for whom opportunities are not self-evident. As I mentioned yesterday Conrad Berghoef: in the end, we have only one mission, GMO, just good education. I can also partly endorse Mr Beertema's and others' speech, because it is primarily a question of 'let there be no misunderstanding' about children being able to read, write and calculate. Because there are a lot of children in this country who are not going to learn that anywhere but at school. So that's gotta be good! Hopefully we will be able to take further steps in the future, because that is very important. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the two directors not only for this budget debate but also for the last four years. We have often had a debate in this House. I can always be accused of anything here, but I don't think I have a dual attitude. I can see Mr Slob sighing in particular. This time it is not so bad, but we have often crossed swords, always fair and beautiful, as is the case in this committee. Others may take an example of this. That always goes in an extremely good atmosphere and perhaps the Education Committee should just explain how you are actually having decent, fun, deep and serious debates here. Mr. Chairman. We have dealt with major issues. I only mention VMBO Maastricht and not to mention corona, but there have been many. I liked it, but I assume that this was the last budget we have had with each other in this period. A little optimism about the formation's progress, isn't it? Finally, I would also like to thank you, Mr President, and all the others, for our unfaithful support in this budget debate. I wish you all a good night. I'm gonna listen to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u220	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u221	Yes, Mr President, and I will try to make up for the motion dries of my colleague Mr Van Meenen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thirteen Dutch universities and colleges of applied sciences have been chosen to take part in the European University Initiative as the frontrunners in the development of European training;]] [[noting that such cross-border studies and collaborations are now faced with many bottlenecks, such as accreditation, governance, and funding;]] [[considers that it is desirable for the Netherlands not only to receive students but also to allow them to go to other colleges and universities to the same extent;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the obstacles and objections to these European training courses and then to consider how to remove the identified barriers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one or more classes are at home in about half of the schools due to corona outbreaks;]] [[Considering that physical education is essential for children and that education should remain open in a safe manner;]] [[Whereas it is therefore desirable to inhibit the current rapid spread of corona in schools;]] [[whereas the Netherlands had previously had education-specific measures and Belgium yesterday adopted a series of measures to combat corona in schools, including the use of mouth nose masks and CO-meters;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently consider what measures within the framework of physical education can help to combat virus spread and to inform the Court of Justice of this by next week at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Woude.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-46]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u222	Mr President, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch science and production capacity have made important contributions to addressing the corona crisis;]] [[noting that the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences (KNAW) recently issued a broad-based report by science, patient organisations and industry with concrete recommendations for strengthening the Dutch position as a hub of medical research, aimed at accelerating medical research and making it more affordable for all patients;]] [[Considering that the corona crisis has underlined the importance of strategic autonomy and that the development of vaccines and medicinal products has been accelerated by the crisis;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should seize the opportunity to play a central role in this;]] [[invites the Academy, together with FAST and other stakeholders, to seek additional advice on how to set up an operational public-private centre of expertise so that the Netherlands strengthens its position as a hub for medical research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Paternotte, De Hoop, Van der Woude, Peters, Bishop, Gündoğan, Westerveld, Simons, Van Baarle, Pouw-Verweij, Van der Plas, Den Haan, Ephraim and Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u224	That's a lot of signatories. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Hoop of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also forgot to congratulate Mrs Van der Woude on her maiden speech, which I would like to do. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. You have noticed that I am critical, but at the same time, of course, I realise that you have done your best over the past period to do as much as possible for education. I thank you for that. I have three motions, first of all on equality of opportunity, the ESC opinion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that our current system of selection in basic education at the age of 11 or 12 has adverse effects on equal learning opportunities, but that a choice at the age of 12 should also remain possible for children who benefit from it;]] [[Whereas the monitoring framework of the Education Inspection is still not sufficiently focused on the admission and promotion of opportunities;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to give effect to the argument put forward by the Economic and Social Council in its opinion Equal opportunities in education which should become the norm later on and previously select the exception,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop, Kwint and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u226	In addition, a motion for the evaluation of the support structure of sick pupils. At the previous procedural meeting, we asked for the consultation to be postponed. Unfortunately, the Ministry didn't do that. I'm very sorry to hear that. That is why I have tabled a motion, along with Mr Peters of the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the research underlying the choice of a change in the structure of education support for sick pupils has not been dealt with in the Chamber;]] [[having noted that the budget of OCW 2022 has committed an evaluation to take place in 2022;]] [[Considering that this envisaged evaluation offers the opportunity to involve interested parties not yet heard and to re-examine the assumptions of the 2017 review;]] [[considers that any major structural changes should only be followed after the results of the evaluation are known;]] [[calls on the Government not to take any further steps in preparing for a structural change before the review took place in 2022 and the stakeholders have been taken into account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Hoop and Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u227	And then I have another motion for the unlucky generation. I'm really worried about my peers who are still in the sofas. They have to deal with a lot of difficult cases. They don't get a home, they can get a permanent contract, and then there's the student debt. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is broad support for the re-introducing of a basic grant;]] [[noting that the current generation of students has to deal with uncertainties in the form of housing crisis, temporary contracts and high student debt;]] [[Whereas the creation of a "bad luck generation" is both unfair and limited to growth and progress in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the support it can obtain for various forms of compensation for students active in the loan system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop, Westerveld and Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also express my contribution in the second term on behalf of the Christian Union. In my first term I talked about Ubuntu culture from southern Africa. It is a culture that is best summarized with the words: I am because we are. I told you about a school far from the inhabited world, which, despite the terrible conditions, has consistently performed at the top. This success did not come from the sky, but it was because one had an eye for one another, because one loved one another and realized that common success depends more on the weakest one than on the strongest one within the community. In our individualized society, we've kind of lost that. But a human being, I say it every time, is not an individual who floats without control on the ocean of life. A person is a person in relation to the other. We exist for and thanks to each other. What applies to society as a whole is even more true in education. Education is a team sport, and also a fucking complicated team sport. Stand in front of the classroom, anyone can, but really teach, make a difference in the lives of young people, get a piece of life together, and teach young people something, so that they can move on independently; that's what it's about. That's very nice to do, but also very difficult. And it doesn't always work either; that's obvious. We talked a long time about the quality of education yesterday and today. As far as I am concerned, the reason for this is not primarily a lack of resources. It is not primarily a question of framework conditions, although they are also important. It is sometimes that we have forgotten that we are not alone, and that together with love and focus we can do a little better each day. Too often things change in our education; we sometimes forget that we can and must learn from each other because of a lack of time or a misunderstood sense of independence. Too often we accept that some teachers should and can do better in the interests of students and themselves. We don't name it, or just in very covered terms. Sometimes out of shame, or not to hurt anyone, afraid when we are to get blamed for dealing with someone. But that's not how it works within a team. That's bad for kids, and we leave a teacher alone in such a case in all his vulnerability. The other way works, too. There's no problem in a school, or there's someone who knows how to fix it. My thesis is and remains: we are not learning enough from each other. Many schools have a learning culture, but how beautiful would it be if all schools had a learning culture? Looking at each other in class. Designing classes together. What went well and what could be better? A little better every day. In southern Africa they greet each other with "sawubona": I see you. The answer that follows is "sikhona": here I am. In that order. It begins with recognizing, actually seeing another and from there building together. In that spirit, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas quality of education is one-to-one related to the quality of the teacher for the class;]] [[also considering that good education is not provided by individual individuals but by a team of teachers;]] [[noting that a learning culture where teachers work together on all aspects of good education is not self-evident in all schools;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to develop plans, together with the educational field, to promote and guide a learning culture on the quality and functioning of teachers as a team and to report to the Chamber on this in spring;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u229	Then I would like to thank both ministers for answering the questions and all of you for the pleasant debate. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u230	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u231	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to colleagues for this debate and also to the Minister for the wise lessons from the beautiful book by Rik Kuiper, that one pupil. I promise him I'm gonna read the book, too. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions, also on behalf of my colleague Mr Bouchallichh, which cannot be here anymore. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than one in five primary school staff have had corona and that the proportion of corona infections among children is also above average;]] [[noting that most children themselves do not become seriously ill with the corona virus, but can transmit it to adults;]] [[Whereas some simple interventions may help to reduce the number of corona infections;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[extend the masking obligation where you cannot keep 1.5 metres to primary and secondary education;]] [[stimulate CO2 meters in classrooms;]] [[advise urgently to self-test twice a week, regardless of vaccination status,]] [[and to extend the relevant arrangements for this purpose;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that educational care arrangements are an important tool to ensure that pupils in need of care receive appropriate education and avoid homelessness;]] [[Whereas there is a need for more support in the areas of process guidance, knowledge sharing and additional research and that there is not sufficient funding for this so far;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to release 3 million from the budget of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science at the end of 2021 to accelerate the implementation of the improvement approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 50% to 60% of teachers expect to stop working for the AOW age;]] [[Whereas it is precisely because of the shortage of teachers that it is important for experienced teachers to be preserved for teaching purposes;]] [[Whereas experienced teachers play a crucial role in the guidance of young teachers;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to instruct the social partners to include individually enforceable arrangements in collective agreements with the aim of preserving older workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has decided that students who have obtained their diploma between 1 September 2020 and 31 August 2021 will receive a fee of €535 for additional costs due to study delay due to the corona crisis;]] [[Notes that the inventory of LSVb shows that hundreds of students are excluded from receiving the corona compensation, as they extend beyond 31 August 2021;]] [[Whereas the halving of tuition fees is not a compensation for these students because they would not have to pay tuition fees at all without delay;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the compensation scheme by extending the corona compensation deadline to 31 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-54]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-55]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint and Mr De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u232	Mr. Chairman. I have already made a point of the cuts that will affect higher education in the coming period. That is not next year, otherwise we would have tabled an amendment, but in the years to come. Unfortunately, therefore, we cannot table an amendment on this, but I do have a motion, partly on behalf of a number of colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the PwC study on the adequacy of funding concludes that higher education is structurally under EUR 1.1 billion;]] [[Considering that the workload of staff has increased considerably in recent years and that student numbers have increased significantly;]] [[having noted that the Minister of Education has repeatedly said that higher education needs at least EUR 1 billion more every year;]] [[Considering that, despite this, there are several cuts in the education budget for higher education, including:]] [[the savings of EUR 320 million due to ICT issues at DUO;]] [[the EUR 226 million interest rate increase that has been lost;]] [[savings on medical, alpha and gamma studies of EUR 38 million;]] [[calls on the government to remove future cuts in higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr De Hoop, Mr Kwint, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the ministers for the answers. I've got one minute and two motions, so I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite the sponsor agreement, it is still common for schools to be offered misleadingly "learning material" by third parties;]] [[noting that the current sponsor agreement is still in force until the end of 2022 and will be fully evaluated, with the question whether, and in what form, the continuation of this covenant is desirable;]] [[noting that the legal basis is lacking to give the educational inspection a role in assessing the quality of educational concepts offered by third parties, teaching materials, guest classes and excursions;]] [[calls on the Government to initiate the preparatory work to enable this legal basis, so that after evaluation of the sponsor agreement, the option is on the table to give the educational inspection a role in assessing the quality of third-party teaching concepts, teaching materials, guest classes and excursions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed the worrying results of the "Monitor Mental Health and Resources Use of Higher Education Students";]] [[points out that the mental health of students should be improved as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government to make as many concrete preparations as possible to help a subsequent cabinet to take steps to improve student welfare as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-58]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint, Mr De Hoop, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Ephraim and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u234	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministers for answering the questions. Many thanks, too, to the staff, who has worked hard to write down a number of questions in writing. Thank you very much. One point is a bit difficult for the Minister or I did not address the question properly. I started by asking for a reflection on the black book that Scheerens and Kirschner have published. There are few words devoted to that. My question would be: is the Minister prepared to reflect on this in writing and indicate what lessons can be drawn from it? Mr. Chairman. Then the way the University of Amsterdam acts in relation to vaccination. I understand that the Minister has indeed consulted the website. There is indeed something like that on it, but if we look a little further, a little more below the surface, we will see that emails are being sent; the Minister will also be aware of that. For example, an e-mail was sent on 30 August and recently again on 8 November, in which the following was literally said. Maybe a faculty sent those e-mails; they could. Let me translate the introductory phrase: "I wanted to remind you of the five basic corona rules I have previously communicated." The first is: "We expect you to be fully vaccinated." In other words, there is not a word of French. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u235	I would just like to point out that you are already through your own time, so it comes down to a different budget procedure. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u236	Yeah, well, I've saved minutes elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u237	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u238	But I'll get to work soon, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools deserve sufficient support to put the ventilation of school buildings in order;]] [[noting that the financing of 30% from the State is limited, especially for municipalities which, because of their regional function, have to hold an above-average share of pupils from other municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to explore how to accelerate the use of part of the remaining budget for the ventilation of school buildings in order to provide additional incentives for more municipalities and schools to provide adequate ventilation, in particular in municipalities affected by an above-average proportion of pupils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the dentist deficit in Zeeland is already high and that the expected outflow is higher in the coming years than in other regions;]] [[Whereas the number of training places for dentists is currently too limited and the location of the training appears to be an important factor in the deficit in certain regions;]] [[calls on the Government to support institutions wishing to develop dental training in Zeeland and to reserve the necessary resources for this training in the budget for the year 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u239	Mr President, thank you for your endless patience. With an apology for my trespass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u240	Ah! There is also an interruption by Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u241	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u242	It is not so much an interruption as a support. The SGP calls for a reflection of the Minister on the report by Mr Scheerens and Mr Kirschner, a black book, entitled Progressive Back. I very much agree with that. I think it's a sensible request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u244	It's been noted. There is also a question, or a support, as we call it today, from Mrs Simons of BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u245	It would be nice, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u246	I can't promise it'll be experienced as support, Mr. Chairman. I am curious what Mr Bishop thinks about the following. He's talking about the shortage of dentists. That would be an assumption from me, I say right away also to have to do with the fact that dental costs are so high, that more and more people who already care avoid, also the dentist. I was actually wondering what Mr Bishop thinks about reducing in the basic package some of the actions that dentists are doing or making that care cheaper and more accessible at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u247	I don't have the impression that that has a direct relationship with each other. You would say: if people stopped using dentists' services because of dental costs, the number of dentists would be too large. But the number of dentists, especially in certain regions in our country, and especially in Zeeland, is just too low. I would like to discuss this with you, but I would like to take this into account the problem of under-employment of dentists in certain border regions, such as Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u248	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u249	You're absolutely right. I also said it's just an assumption. It was a crazy thought jump. Quite apart from that link, I am curious at all about Mr Bishop's attitude towards the reduction of oral care in the basic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u250	I do not think it is right to deal with a matter outside my portfolios in the debate on the Education budget, at least within our group. I will not be tempted to make the words you have hoped for; I am sorry for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u251	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Let's not do that. This is an issue which is not covered by this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u252	I would like to make a friendly comment and also say that I forgot the luxury of a large group. Thank you for that answer, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u253	I'm melting away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u254	Look. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. May I also thank the rulers for their reply during the first term? A number of motions on the part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are good initiatives mainly on the MBO to combat and investigate internship discrimination, but that there are no statistics on internship discrimination in higher education;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the extent to which traineeship discrimination takes place in higher education and to encourage the implementation of existing initiatives to combat internship discrimination in higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under-advisation of pupils with a migration background contributes to the inequality of opportunity in education;]] [[Considers that greater attention to this problem within pabos can contribute to reducing this problem;]] [[calls on the government to engage in dialogue with pabos and to encourage them to pay attention within the training to under-advisation of pupils with a migration background and their prevention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that under-advisation of children with parents with lower socio-economic status and/or a migration background contributes to the inequality of opportunity in education;]] [[Whereas there are tools to assist teachers in their advice, such as the "education guidance from high expectations" and the "school guidance advice" and that tutorials have been drawn up for teachers;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of OCW is currently considering the possibility of continuing these activities;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the dissemination of expertise within education in the coming period in order to counter under-advisation, further improvement of knowledge material and low-threshold training for teachers to counter under-advisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that too many young people experience discrimination in the search for an internship;]] [[noting that successful mysteryguest studies are carried out in the housing market, which makes discrimination understandable and the announced use of these practical tests can already lead to a reduction in discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out mysteryguest investigations into discrimination in the search for an internship and also to consider how perceived possible discrimination in this regard could lead to recourse to the internship in question,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-62]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-63]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-64]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u257	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to announce that I am going through my speaking time, but I will do so in other budget debates. There is a huge milestone coming, because I think I am going to table more motions in this education debate than I have ever done in an agricultural debate. You can also see that education is very important to me. I'm gonna do that right away and not bore people with all this bullshit on my part. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, depending on their type of training, people are systematically referred to as low or high-educated in government documents, as recently five times in the Millions Note;]] [[Whereas professionals working in the manufacturing industry, which is indispensable for society and the economy, deserve greater recognition;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to stop using the words "low-educated" and "high-educated" in future, but only to speak and write about "practically trained," "theoretically trained" and "scientifically educated" and to implement this in all public communication;]] [[calls on the Court to use the same terms, so that citizens with any kind of training always feel appreciated, this can make for a less negative impact on, for example, VMBO or MBO education and this can contribute to the choice of pupils to opt for vocational training;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vavo schools (continuing general adult education) have a regional function;]] [[Whereas many pupils need to bridge a considerable distance from the Vavo school;]] [[Whereas not all pupils can afford the travel expenses;]] [[Whereas motivated pupils should be enabled to take up a vavo training course;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to examine the possibility of a travel allowance for pupils in the host Member State and to inform the Chamber by 1 April 2022 at the latest in order to enable more adults who are lagging behind in education to develop further;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a major shortage of teachers;]] [[noting that many people are starting to train as teachers, but many people are dropping out on the way;]] [[whereas teachers in training feel that their internships are very useful but that much theory is not focused on practice;]] [[Whereas many double tests are carried out within the training;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make pabo training more practical and more attractive, for example by abolishing the double tests and giving more attention and scope to training in practice, so that more people can enjoy or gain pleasure in the teacher's field and the shortage of teachers can be addressed;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in more and more places business successfully supports practical MBO education with hybrid teaching (people who combine their jobs in business with teachers in schools);]] [[noting that there is a significant lack of technical professionals;]] [[noting that there are, in particular, too few teachers in VMBO and MBO to train technicians;]] [[Whereas cooperation between public authorities, education and industry is important;]] [[Whereas hybrid teachers can contribute to solving the shortage of teachers;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to investigate the costs for industry for the deployment of hybrid teachers, in particular for SMEs, so as to gain a better understanding of what is needed to train its own technical professionals and to reduce the Netherlands' dependence on abroad and to continue to operate our society on its own;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-66]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-67]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-69]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u259	I have a question about the previous motion, about the pabo motion. If I have listened carefully, Mrs van der Plas says that there should actually be much more attention to training in practice at the pabo. You can find all kinds of things, but my question is: should we in the House of Representatives decide what such a pabo-training looks like? Or should we leave that to people who know it more than I do and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u260	A clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u261	...who were trained to do so themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u262	I get the question. I can also see that I may have written it down a little bit. I'm going to see if I can change it on the spot, because it's more about being able to look into conversations to see how this can be better adapted to practice. That's actually the purpose of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u263	That's how I get it. This also applies a little bit to the motion that is now being tabled on hybrid training. There are opportunities for that. I don't want to say anything about the idea itself, but I'm a little reluctant to prescribe from the Chamber exactly how people should do their job in practice. There is often my hesitation, about separating what we have to decide and what the field itself should decide. So I'd like to give that to Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u264	Yeah, that's right. However, I have stated in this motion: "calls on the cabinet to investigate the costs for business for the use of hybrid teachers, especially for SMEs'. So that's just to get insight. And with insight you can always take further steps; that is the consideration. But thank you for the response. That's very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u265	Your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u266	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an unhealthy lifestyle is an important cause of diseases and this puts more pressure on care;]] [[Whereas the consumption of fresh food products, such as vegetables, fruit and animal protein, contributes to a healthy lifestyle;]] [[Whereas changes in behaviour begin with knowledge;]] [[Whereas investing in food education and healthy food in the longer term can avoid many health problems;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to examine how structural food education, including farm education and cooking lessons, can be mandatory in primary and secondary education programmes, so that children can learn from an early age how fresh food contributes to healthy life, learn how to cook themselves with fresh products and teach children where their food comes from; in this way, it is more likely that they will opt for healthy and fresh food and live healthier life at a later age;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u267	I saw Mr Wassenberg in my last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u268	I think we're more and more looking forward to your coffee appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u269	I also wanted to talk about common sense. Does Mrs van der Plas mean that you really have to tell the whole story, and also, for example, the dangers of consuming too much animal protein? Because I do not know the risks of over-consumption of plant proteins, but of animal proteins all the more. So isn't that part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u270	We can get a cup of coffee, because I think we already have a coffee appointment. Look, never too much, of course. I am not suggesting that people should eat a lot more meat or a lot more eggs or a lot more dairy. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is that animal proteins just fit into a balanced diet. That's what I'm saying. Too many plant proteins and no balanced food patterns can also be harmful. So it's just a little of everything. And I don't see why you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u271	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u272	What all nutritionists, biologists and dietists actually agree on is that people just eat too much animal protein and that there are all kinds of risks involved. So I just wanted to stress that so that it will be included, because there are real risks involved. And people, also in the Netherlands, eat too much rather than too little animal protein.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u274	There is a scientific consensus on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u275	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u276	It is not entirely true what Mr Wassenberg says. It's about what products you take. If you put six bacon on your plate every day, that doesn't seem very healthy to me. But take a piece of chicken or lean pork. There are just a lot of animal proteins that just have very good, healthy nutrients and that you just need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u277	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u278	So it depends on what it is like, but that is precisely why food education is so important. Then that can be told.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u279	You will resume your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u280	It's the last one. Then you'll be rid of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u281	I'm not looking at you like that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u282	No, not you. I'm just saying it in general. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands cannot do without professionals;]] [[noting that the image of practical professions can be improved and our professionals deserve it;]] [[Whereas vocational education has become an underprivileged child and we are increasingly required to recruit staff from abroad;]] [[Whereas we should not be dependent solely on foreign workers and therefore train our own professionals;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to launch a large, long-term public campaign by 1 June 2022 to ensure that professionals receive the recognition they deserve widely;]] [[calls on the cabinet to come up with appealing examples of professionals who are themselves crazy about what they do so that practical occupations become more attractive and we make the Netherlands less dependent on foreign workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u284	There is a question from Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u285	Let me begin by expressing my deep appreciation for the fact that Mrs van der Plas has been through this whole debate in all her hustle and bustle and bustle and as a one-man group, and has also tabled six motions, or perhaps more, on all of these important issues. Much appreciated for that. But it sometimes seems as if we have not really talked about this in recent years and as if all these subjects have not been discussed, and Mrs van der Plas is going to tell us how to proceed. I appreciate that, too, because it's a fresh sound. I should like to ask Mrs van der Plas one question: could I have a cup of coffee with you sometime? Then we're just gonna talk about education for an hour and what we're doing here, how complicated things are sometimes. Sometimes it's a little more complicated than the way things are sometimes in your motions. That is why, perhaps with pain in my heart, I will vote against some of those motions, but I would like to ask you: if you have time somewhere in your ballet, can I go in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u286	Of course. People like Mr. Van Meenen, who attract hoodies in the Chamber, of course, I always want to talk. Without madness: no, of course. And it's absolutely not meant to be like, "Oh, now I'm gonna come in here and change things, because you never did anything." I don't know about a lot of things either. I didn't watch debates every day, because I just had a full-time job. It's not meant to be like that at all. If it is, I'll hear it in the appreciation. I'm definitely going to have coffee with you. I must say, however, that I have now become the MP with most coffee arrangements. I'm open to it. I think that's really good and cozy. Will you take Mr Paternotte with you? 'Cause I've got something to talk to him about, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u287	Well, I don't know yet. I'd rather keep you to myself. It may also be something other than coffee, at the end of the afternoon. I don't care about any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u288	Could you perhaps discuss this outside of the order of business?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u289	And if you want, I'll put on my hoodie. Seriously, I don't want to vote brutally against some of your motions. I am going to vote against it and that is also because they sometimes break up with policies that have already been put in place. I'm gonna get one out on food. We've had proposals on this before. That is a problem in education anyway. We have a social problem: children don't eat healthy. You know what, let them pay attention to that in education. And so it goes with a lot of subjects. That's what we've all been cautious about over the past few years. I've made that mistake sometimes, at least "fault," it's a propensity that comes easily. So that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u290	Thank you. You have a lot to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u291	We're just gonna have a drink and preferably not coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u292	If you take care of the coffee, I'll take care of the carrot cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u293	Well, look. Sometimes you hear more things than you want to know. Before you start, Mrs Simons, Mrs Westerveld has forgotten to make a motion. This had to do with the agreement with her colleague Mrs Bouchallichh, who was not present. There was a little confusion. I hope you will approve of Mrs Westerveld's motion, for which I would like to thank her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u294	Yeah, just to be clear, it's not her, it's me, because I was wrong about the time. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as a society, we face an important societal challenge in terms of energy transition;]] [[noting that at the same time we have a huge shortage of practical-skilled personnel, mainly in the engineering sector, to carry out the transition;]] [[Considering that although the Technics Pact has achieved results in order to interest people in technical training, this does not prevent deficits from continuing to increase;]] [[Considering that the review of the Technics Pact shows that there is scope for improvement in the field of technical guidance, particularly in the field of vocational training;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways to improve information in secondary education and in MBO with a view to informing pupils and students as early as possible about opportunities and career prospects in the engineering sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Mrs Pouw on her maiden speech. I hadn't gotten to that either. Oh, no, excuse me. It wasn't Mrs. Pouw, was it? It's Mrs. Van der Woude. Then I congratulate you on your maiden speech, otherwise it will be so unnecessary. Good. Having said that, I'm going to table three motions. Let me briefly explain one thing. I shall begin with the motion on low-literacy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas 2.5 million people are currently low-literate in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas a quarter of the 15-year-olds are not sufficiently linguistic to participate fully in society;]] [[whereas the ESC recommends doubling the funds available to address low literacy;]] [[Whereas there are many organisations and programmes active to combat low literacy, such as Stichting Lezen en Schrijven, the action programme Tel met taal, Het Leesoffensief, Expertisecentrum Basis Skills, Uitgeverij Easily Communicate, Steffie.nl, Oefenen.nl and the Equal Opportunities Alliance;]] [[Whereas the underlying problem affects various social areas, including socio-economic background, educational disadvantage, segregation and quality, and therefore requires an integrated and holistic approach;]] [[Whereas a significant part of the approach is invested in municipalities;]] [[noting that some municipalities are doing more than others, which means that a nationwide covering system of low literacy approaches is currently lacking;]] [[noting that a significant part of the financing has been invested occasionally and not structurally;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[ensure a nationwide covering system in addressing low literacy, so that it does not depend on the random community where you live whether you are being helped in the case of low literacy or to prevent low literacy;]] [[identify the incidental resources that need structural funding in dealing with low literacy and the structural results that can be achieved;]] [[ensure the structural relationship of the field of work, including the parties and programmes referred to in the recitals;]] [[inform the Court as soon as possible, but in any case for the budgetary treatment of OCW for the financial year 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u296	Then there is a motion which has already been discussed in the debate and which I am going to table anyway. I say in advance that I am quite willing to hold on to them or to withdraw them. That depends on the Minister's response. I'll file the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lhbtiqa+ people, like all other people, must be able to be themselves anywhere and always;]] [[Whereas the impact of exclusion and discrimination on your environment (especially at a young age) is significant;]] [[Whereas education is an important determining factor in their development for young people;]] [[Considering that Table 7 on page 16 of the explanatory memorandum to the OCW budget shows that the government is aiming for 90% acceptance of lhbtiqa+ people in education;]] [[Whereas, regardless of the moral, religious or ethical views against gender diversity in society, it is the responsibility of the government to at least strive for a 100% acceptance rate of lhbtiqa+ people and children in education;]] [[calls on the Government to aim at 100% acceptance of lhbtiqa+ people in education, among others, and to adapt all public communication (including the statement of reasons for the OCW budget) to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u297	And then I had another one, and that's this one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch education tells a one-sided story about the Dutch colonial past;]] [[noting that freedom fighters and resistance heroes, such as Tula, Janey Tetary, Nyi Ageng Serang or Martha Christina Tiahahu, are therefore under-exposed and unknown in the Netherlands while as an example of Black and Asian Dutch anticolonial resistance they belong in the history books;]] [[not only losing an archive of stories about Black and Asian leadership, talent and resistance, but also the collective memory of what we have endured as a society, where we come from and how that history colors our present;]] [[noting that representative organisations such as The Black Archives or organisations from Suriname, Caribbean Netherlands, Indonesia or the Moluccas have a lot of knowledge and experience in digging up, expanding and archiving this part of the Dutch colonial past;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to investigate stories about anti-colonial freedom fighters and resistance heroes from Dutch history;]] [[to focus specifically on the excavation, expansion and archiving of stories about freedom fighters and resistance heroes against the Dutch colonial regime;]] [[cooperate in this investigation with, inter alia, the representative organisations mentioned in the finding and ensure a leading research role for them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Wuite and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u298	I fully recognise the importance of the colonial past being properly included in the curriculum. That is why the PvdA tabled a motion in 2019 with GroenLinks and the Party for Animals. I am curious to see what the addition of this motion by Mrs Simons is to the proposal we made in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u299	I would like to thank Mr De Hoop for reminding me of this motion. Mrs van den Hul was, I believe, the first signatory to this motion. My answer to that is twofold. On the one hand, I would like to pass the question on to the cabinet. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? If that motion had been carried out in full, I probably wouldn't have filed mine. And perhaps that is also the second part of my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u300	I have a question on Mrs Simons' amendment, if I may. I read it with interest. You point out important issues such as low literacy, inequality of opportunity and under-advisation. In particular, I stuck to that last theme a little bit. As it happens, I myself tabled an amendment on this subject a month or two ago, an amendment to the law, to ensure that the problems of children who are structurally affected by under-advisation are dealt with, in particular, by children with a background to migration and children from socially vulnerable families, often by girls. I have tabled an amendment to that effect, which has almost been accepted by Parliament. It was my first amendment, so that was very exciting as a newcomer. I have looked closely at 146 votes in favour and four against. I noticed that Mrs Simons did not support that amendment. I was very curious to see why, because this was an excellent opportunity to tackle the problem of under-advisation. So I'm curious about her motivation not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u301	Mrs. Simons. And it concerns Mrs Simons' amendment to item No. 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u302	Thank you for that question, too. I must confess that I have not been ready for the precise text of Mrs Paul's amendment. That would probably be the answer to the question. It may be that there was just a phrase in it that I thought wasn't. I even seem to recall that I was not present at all at the vote, but I just really don't know. That could also be a very good explanation. I would suggest that I do that homework and then come back to you for a reason that I hope you can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u303	I suggest we have a nice cup of coffee, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u304	Yeah, okay. Very well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u305	Then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u306	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Merci. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u307	Mr President, thank you. With regard to the remaining time, I shall begin with two short motions, supported by Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Pouw-Verweij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas theatre and music lessons, in addition to cognitive skills, which are paramount for school children, are of great importance for development;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to promote theatre and music lessons in primary and secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a significant shortage of teaching staff;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with professionals in the field, to improve job satisfaction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-76]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u308	The Minister is ready to answer a single question and give her appreciation of the motions tabled. I call the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u309	Thank you, Mr President. I tried to keep a list of the distributions between me and Mr Slob during the tabling of the motions, but I could no longer do so at some speed. But you can see it, and it actually speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u310	Before you start. The motions are still being distributed, so can you wait one more second? I'm sorry about that. I think everybody's got the motions now. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u311	Mr. Chairman. Before I start the motions, I still have a few questions. Mr Wassenberg had another question about animal-free innovations and the breakdown of the amount. The amount for the BPRC, 2.3 million, is about animal-free innovations and animal welfare. Within this amount of 2.3 million is 1.3 million for animal-free innovations and 1 million for animal welfare. There is therefore an earing of the amount. Mr. Chairman. Then I have to fix a mistake from my first term. I told Mr Kwint that adjusting the subsidy scheme for second teacher training costs €40,000, but that had to be four tonnes. Those costs are therefore not easy. Mr. Chairman. I forgot to answer Mrs Gündoğan's question on the funding of European universities. She asked me why other countries have separate funding for this and we do not. I think there will also be a motion on this. That is the simple fact that we in the Netherlands are funding the universities lumpsum and that is not the case in other countries. Hence the difference. Mr. Chairman. Returning to the question about Mr Bishop's UvA. We checked with the UvA's board of directors. It is very unfortunate if an e-mail is sent somewhere in which someone says something that is different from the official policy. That wouldn't be appropriate, but the policy is as I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u312	There is another question from Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u313	Yeah, that's about teacher training. I do think that €400,000 is a lot of money for adjusting such a scheme. But I had also asked whether it would be possible to bring forward that assessment, or at least to ensure that a teacher who enrolls in February does not have the certainty of being in debt if he is not able to claim that funding afterwards. As far as I am concerned, this does not need to be discussed in detail now. If it takes research, I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u314	That's what we figured out, and it's basically the same thing. You actually have to go through the whole process at the time. That must be administered in the system at that time and at that time. That also means that you give someone a contribution that you can no longer commit to anyone else. Unfortunately, it doesn't matter that much in the execution. I understand that you want to think very creatively about this, but I think it is a very small group, for which it is quite clear. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the assessment of the motions. I think it has turned 43 in total, so excuse in advance that the assessment is sometimes a little short. I think that some things have been exchanged sufficiently in the debate so that we do not have a great deal of argument about them now. We had a good chance of changing them. The motion in part No. 35 by Mrs Gündoğan on European universities. I share her enthusiasm for those universities. They are also important for educational renewal. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber. The motion in part No. 37 belongs to Mrs Gündoğan and others. That motion deals with study funding and reducing the number of hours to work from 56 hours per month. I don't recommend that motion. I'm really moving too fast to change that right now. There are real costs involved. We are quite willing to investigate the problem, whether an adapted time limit is feasible, what that means for the cost of study funding and what that means for the run-up of European students. So I'd like to check it out. Mrs Gündoğan is not here, but if, before the vote, she amends the motion to that effect, then we can do without it. But this way I have to move the motion in part no. 37 dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 39 by Mr Bertema. I'd advise against it. This is actually the debate that we have also had in the Language and Accessibility Act. Mr Beertema and I think that is quite different. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 40, by Mrs Van der Woude and others. This one gets judgment Chamber if I can explain to her in such a way that we can first look at what comes out of the ongoing investigation. If further research is needed in the field of security, we will do so. But there are already two investigations in progress. This motion will be judged by Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u315	Let me see if Mrs Van der Woude agrees with this interpretation. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u316	If you think that the framework in which that investigation is taking place is in line with the framework I have laid down here, then I would like to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u317	Yes, very good. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: This is a discussion which I believe we have had on several occasions. Mr Kwint will therefore not be surprised at my appreciation: I advise against this motion. We also share the importance of this motion, namely that there should be more permanent and more good contracts and less flexible contracts in higher education. But it is really up to employers and employees to make agreements on this. By the way, they have already done some of that. For example, it has been agreed in the college collective agreement that structural work is only done on the basis of a fixed contract. And it has been agreed in the university collective agreement that the flexibility of scientific staff should not exceed what is necessary. We also notice that the social partners are really working on this, because we see the number of flexible contracts in practice falling. The motion in part No. 43 by Mr Kwint, on the internship allowance for MBOs. We have also exchanged this in the debate, and I also advise against this motion. We made a deal: yes, the internship fee has to be there. We have agreed with the parties on this, but unlike Mr Kwint, I do not think we should prescribe exactly how high that remuneration should be. Then the motion to part No. 45, on maternity leave in higher education. I advise against this motion, because the agreements on this matter are laid down in the student statute. On the basis of that student status, we can call on the Profiling Fondd, which is going to be called the student fund in higher education, I say to Mr De Hoop. Institutions are already obliged to provide financial compensation when a person is delayed due to pregnancy in the study. So that's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u318	Before proceeding, there is a question from Mr Kwint about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u319	Yes, because the point is, of course, that institutions have to do something, but it is only very limited to what it should be. I think that the Minister and I quickly agree that the provision for pregnant women will be an element for few women in their choice of study and the institution they choose. Isn't it convenient? You also worked on it at the MBO and then it would certainly be more convenient to arrange it in the same way for higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u320	No. When we spoke about the MBO, I explained to you that there is often an obligation to attend in the MBO. Therefore, there are really different issues for a pregnant student than for a student in HBO and wo. They can also often book study progress during pregnancy. Once again, something has been laid down in the student status and if there is a delay, the higher education student fund should be able to be used. Then there is the motion by Mr Paternotte and Mrs Van der Woude on the identification of possible obstacles to European training.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u321	Is that the motion in part No. 46?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u322	That's right. This motion, in part No. 46 gets judgment room. We all want to see more of these European training courses, and that is why it is good to identify the obstacles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u323	Before you continue, Minister. Mr. De Hoop, you have a question about Mr. Paternotte's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u324	No, I have another question about a motion by Mr Kwint. The minister mentioned a higher education student fund, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u325	What motion is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u326	That's about the motion in part No. 45. I think we agreed it would be a student support fund. That was at the request of the ISO, the LSVb and the Labour Party. The minister said now: higher education student fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u327	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u328	It was about naming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u329	Then we misunderstood each other in the debate. I explained it that way, but if you think of something else, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u330	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u331	It's been noted. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 48, on the expertise centre for drug development. As a minister, you have to come from a very good house if you're going to stand down with this set of signatures. That seems like a very unopposed mission to me. But I also strongly support it, so I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 51 by Mr De Hoop, on compensation for students. I advise against this motion. With regard to the possible compensation for students of the study advance system, proposals have already been drawn up at the request of the Chamber, which was requested by Mr Futselaar and Mrs Van den Hul. A letter with options has been in your Chamber since April 8th of this year. Whatever support is found in the Chamber, I think it is up to the Chamber and not to me. I also think it's something the forming parties are talking about. But the options are there and anyone can draw from them. The motion has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. Mrs Westerveld's 56th report on the extension of the student compensation scheme is not a good idea. We have tried as well as possible to adjust a sleeve for everyone. That means that we say to students from previous years: if you walk out and graduate later, then you get until August 31st we have already extended the time and if you have to register again, then the tuition fee is halved. What Mrs Westerveld is proposing is to extend that period. But that would also mean that students are eligible for compensation twice and then they have both one and the other. The cabinet has previously considered in the support packages that this is a reasonable way to accommodate students. We have defended this on several occasions here in the Chamber, and I found a majority for this at the time, so I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 57. It will not surprise Mrs Westerveld and others that I do not advise them, because it is really up to the next cabinet to see how they deal with the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u332	The Minister has already said in the debate that it is up to a next cabinet, but this motion asks what the Chamber wants. If it does not help if the Chamber votes in a majority and says 'we should not want to have these future cuts in higher education', I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u333	It's not for me to advise the Chamber what she's going to say. It's up to you. It is not for me to formulate new motions, but the motion that is now before us, I advise against. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Wassenberg's motion and others on student welfare. I'll pass judgment on that, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u334	That's the motion in part No. 59.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u335	The motion in part No. 59 gets judgment, Room. That report did ring a few alarm bells with me. I won't be able to really implement a lot of that, but prepare how are you going to do this in a good way? I'll do it. The motion in part No. 61 on dental training, I highly recommend. The Capacity Body has recommended an extension of 100 dental places in total. That costs 26 million in structural terms and I do not have that space in the budget at the moment, so structural money will have to be found by a new cabinet. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 62 by Mr Van Baarle. It calls for research into the degree of internship discrimination in higher education. This motion I give judgment Chamber. I think it's okay if we get a map of that, too. Then there is the motion, also by Mr Van Baarle, on the under-advisation and the discussion with the pabos to see how this can be addressed in the training of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u336	That's the motion in part No. 63.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u337	Yes. I'll give it to you, Room, because this is a good thought. It's good to bring that to the pabos. I can also imagine that things are going on in this area, but it is always good to stay and talk about it. Then the motion to part No. 65, by Mr Van Baarle. I'd advise against it. Because internship discrimination often takes place in actual selection, I do not think mystery guests are going to add much to that. So this motion is dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 66, by Mrs van der Plas on the abolition of the words 'low-educated' and 'high-educated'. I would like to say a few words about this, because Mrs Westerveld has already raised this point; I do not know whether it was in my first budget debate or in the second. At that time, too, we said, and that is what we live here in the Chamber: that is good; that is what we have to do. Finding that with each other is one thing, but we have discovered that it is still quite a piece of work to do that consistently with each other everywhere. That's why the CBS is working on drawing up a paper on what would be a good alternative name and how to do it consistently. It really has many consequences for the way in which we record the level of education of people, on which we make that data internationally comparable and on which we have registered it in laws. It therefore means that I have to change the name of the Higher Education Act. So it has a lot of consequences. Mrs Westerveld has mentioned it before. I noticed that there was already broad support in the Chamber for doing so, so I would ask you to hold your motion until that CBS paper is there. We hope that will be there in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u338	I will look at Mrs Van der Plas to see if she is prepared to hold the motion. I hear Mrs Van der Plas is going to think about that. Should Mrs Van der Plas not hold her motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u339	Then I'm gonna tell her not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u340	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u341	Because then the motion is simply too short. Then the motion to part No. 67 by Mrs Van der Plas, on travel expenses in the Vavo. I'd advise against it. In a letter dated June 2021, we outlined a number of options for reimbursement of travel expenses of vavo students. This motion now makes a choice. However, structural costs are also involved, and I do not see any structural coverage in this motion. Then the motion to part No. 69, on the double keys for pabo students. I advise against this motion. In my opinion, Mrs Westerveld said something very wisely about this: the pabos should go about the way they test themselves. We've taken quite a step in the keys in front of the gate. There is no double keys either. I wouldn't know what exactly is being double-checked. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 70, about hybrid teaching. I would also advise against this, partly in view of the fact that I would like to point out that the side-intromers have, of course, already earmarked for technical teachers, more than 4 million within the grant side-inflow. The situation around hybrid teachers is going well. There's extra money in the side-inflow scheme. In itself, a company does not cost money if a employee becomes a part teacher, because then it simply starts to work less at that company and stand in front of the classroom. I think that's quite cost-neutral for a company. Then the motion to part No. 72, tabled by Mrs Westerveld on behalf of her colleague Mr Bouchallichh. This one gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 73 of BE1, on low literacy, I give judgment Chamber. We will take this into account in the progress report on tackling low literacy, which you will receive in the spring. In that we take the points addressed in the motion. Then the motion to part No. 74, on the lhbti-acceptation in education. Mrs Simons was right to have a question about this in response to the answers. You are absolutely right, for example when it comes to the position of transgenders. We are not there when we see that there is broad acceptance of gays and lesbians, because they are transgenders and intersex people who really have it very complicated. I actually agree with you that we should say: what 90% acceptance; that should be 100% acceptance? If we say in Dutch law that everyone must be able to be themselves, then so must education. This motion therefore gets judgment Chamber. If you do not mind, we will not change the table in this budget retroactively, but we will make sure that it works out in the next budget. Then the motion to part No. 75. On behalf of Mr Slob, it might be appropriate to point out that there was an earlier motion by Mrs Van den Hul, in which the government was asked to take these points into account in the elaboration of the key objectives. This has already been taken into account in the work of SLO in developing the core objectives. Mrs Van den Hul's motion has been worked out. The motion in part No. 75 is asking for something more. It calls for attention to be paid to the investigation of anti-colonial freedom fighters. What I found a great example of myself is the small exhibition about our birth papers, here at the National Archives, which is called: Revolt & Freedom. There you can see the Plate of Abandonment and the Union of Utrecht, but also the rebellion of slaves in Berbice and attention is paid to the role of Cuffy. That's our history, too. That's exactly what you're asking for, to have a broader focus on that, so this motion too gets judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I've provided the motions in my area with a judgment. Finally, because I have the suspicion that this will be the last Education budget of this cabinet that I am defending here: I would like to thank all the members of the Education Committee for their pleasant cooperation. This is a really fine committee to have a debate and to work with. And yes, we sometimes differ quite a bit, but the debate is always conducted in a pleasant way, respecting each other's views and paying attention to the words that are chosen. At times, colleagues could take an example of this. Thank you very much for that. I've appreciated that very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u342	Thank you. We clean for a while and then I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree 100% with what my colleague has said, because these are also my experiences with this committee, which I have of course seen from another role for years. It is very nice to see that whatever people are there, the atmosphere and the spirit that is on the Education Committee, is continued every cabinet period, including by new people. That has everything to do with the clerk, who plays a very important role in that, we know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u344	If there's anyone we love, it's Eveline. Mr. Chairman. I don't want to fail you, as chairman, but yes, well... We're all getting a little emotional about this stuff, too. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go over the motions. The motion by Mrs Gündoğan and Mr De Hoop on item No. 37 I can give judgment to Chamber, with this remark added. We are already working to make further effects. I'm explaining this motion in such a way that it just shouldn't stop. Of course, a new cabinet will have to pursue it further. I would find it a bad signal to discourage this motion, because then it seems as if we are not working on it, and we are, so the House of Commons and then a new cabinet will have to come up with further effects. They are always meant for the longer term. The Bertema motion in part No. 38 is a new variant on a speech-exmotion, namely a call-movement. It's kind of special. I didn't know this variant yet, but maybe it was introduced in the time I finished MP's. So I do not have to respond to that, but I would like to make a comment on the first recital. In my own term, I have really given words to that. I'm sorry they didn't happen in some way. Maybe that was a lack of persuasion. But let us try to conduct the debate in a way that also does justice to the facts, even when it comes to where we stand when reading, about which we have concerns. The motion-Kwint c.s. in piece No. 42 I must advise against, because this really requires a much broader discussion. It belongs to the Labour Market Act in balance, in which we have made no distinction in occupational groups. Broad agreements have been reached which can then be worked out in collective agreements. That's what education really does very well, I think. I've already given words to that. Should the Chamber really want to do this differently, I would not do so through this band, but I would open up a broader discussion about it, so I would advise against this motion. Knowing Mr Kwint, because he knows what's in a Member's toolbox, he might go back to work himself. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u345	That leads to a comment by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u346	Apart from the Labour Market Balance Act, you can of course also include matters in the financing conditions of educational institutions. We have done so on more points. That's not too crazy. This is part of a school's personnel policy. You could say that we want to see in the funding conditions that this condition of decent human resources policy is met.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u347	Then we come into the sphere of collective agreements. As you know, we respect the agreement between employers and employees. A six-month system is, I think, almost impossible in any case, also in view of the way in which it works in practice. We really must respect that it must take place there. Unless we really have to change things in the law. We will indeed have a much clearer grip on that, but this cabinet does not intend to do so. I don't know if a next cabinet is gonna do that either, but that's not up to me. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Forty-four is a motion by Mr Kwint. Let's end up positive. I would like to give that judgment to the Chamber, with the following comment. You're saying right now: make agreements. In my term, I have promised you that I will talk to them. On this basis, we are going to assess whether it is necessary, whether there really should be agreements. If I may explain the motion in such a way that I am going to have a conversation and report to you on it, who knows, there are also appointments there with............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 'Cause I get your point. You don't want to let it go like this. This way it can be done. That's the motion in part No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u348	I would like to ask Mr Kwint to amend the text, for the sake of clarity, because then there is another sentence. Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u349	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 47 by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van Meenen on corona. We have been working on this, but in line with Mr Paternotte's questions, I have promised that we will continue to do so in the coming days. By the way, we do that together with VWS. Contacts have already been made with the OMT. The OMT will, of course, put its own advice on paper, but we have asked to take a concrete look at this. Of course, I'll inform your Chamber about that. I don't need a motion for that in principle. Perhaps I will inform you before you vote on the motion; I do not know. Anyway, this has our full attention. That is also very necessary and you underline it. You also leave room for the OMT to give advice on this in his wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u350	I have some experience as a corona spokesperson. That gives me the advantage that I know the OMT answers the questions that are being asked. So that question does make a lot of difference. I am glad to hear that a question about primary schools has indeed been put to OMT. I would like to mention a few measures in my motion. Mrs Westerveld even mentions these measures in her motion as a specific task. The question is whether such measures will be taken again in this question to the OMT, because the Minister did not go into that very specifically in his reply to the interruptions. So that's a question. Is there any way to find out about the motions that have been tabled here? That's important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u351	Of course, I've been stuck here all day, so about such a motion and the texts you've written hasn't been in touch yet. I shall come back to Mrs Westerveld's motion separately, because it goes beyond yours. So I will see to it that this motion is passed through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u352	So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u353	You know that, of course, but it's up to the OMT to judge. And there are a few other very big issues on the board. I myself hope they have time to do all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u354	The motion in part No. 47 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u355	I cannot, of course, judge that at this distance, but you will understand that. We're gonna see what's gonna come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u356	Can I ask you one more question? The motion in part No. So 47 gets judgment, huh, Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u357	Yeah, he gets judgment room. The motion in part No. Forty-eight I can be in line with what I have to say at the time of the motion for a resolution. 36 have said, give judgment Chamber. This means that we are going to work with a policy response to the SER report. We would have sent it to the Chamber without a policy response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u358	I'm interrupting. The motion in part No. 48 had already been judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u359	I'm talking about the motion in part No. 49.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u360	The motion in part No. 49. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u361	No. 48 has already been. So that's what we're going to do. Your Chamber will have a policy response to that. We wouldn't have done that because of the deportationary state, but if this motion is passed, we will. Mr. Chairman. The sixteenth motion, the one in part No. 50, I have to advise against it. There was already an investigation. By the way, in May, I informed the Chamber of the steps we were going to take to ensure that the education of sick children also went to the future and, as I say, to make it future-proof. We have involved Oberon's research and have also engaged in discussions with the parties involved. On this basis, a bill has been made, which has now entered into internet consultation. From the procedural meeting we did not get very specific information that it had to be stopped, but that a two-minute debate had to wait for an evaluation to come. So that may have been a misunderstanding from the procedural meeting and communication with us. And there will be no new evaluation in principle, because we have now also included the Oberon research proposals in the legislative proposal. By the way, that will eventually be with you, and then of course you will be free to express your opinion. So this is going on and I really wouldn't like to interrupt that, even knowing that there are parties here, I'm thinking of the Princess Máxima Centre, which really has an interest in making pace now. Nor is it the intention that the OZL provision, as we call it in the abbreviation, should change when it comes to the provision itself. Well, there's gonna be some changes in the structure. However, that is all in the proposals I have put forward to you. And when it comes to the target group: that target group of MBO students is being increased. So we're working on this in all kinds of ways. I advise this motion, but once again, you will get that. Everything, all the information, sent, and then you can as a Chamber, and that is obviously your place as well, and your role is to speak out on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u362	The Minister and I just can't find each other in this. We are going to make a request to the procedural meeting to declare this point controversial, because we do not want this process to be so at the moment. I shall therefore withdraw the motion, and at least we shall make the request to the procedural meeting to declare it controversial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u363	Since the De Hoop/Peters motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u364	As long as a cabinet is a missionary, that can of course happen. And if there is a new cabinet again, and let's hope that happens soon, then there can be what I had just indicated as a procedure. Mr. Chairman. Motion 18, the one in part No. Mr Peters and Mr Wassenberg's 52 on investing in teachers, in the teams, I can give a ruling Chamber. It is also very much in line with the way we deal with it from the NPO. And I know that in a lot of schools this is a part that was picked up from the menu of choice. So the motion in part No. 52: Judgement Room. In the case of motion nineteen, the one in part No. 53, I ask Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kikken to hold until we have received the OMT opinion. You are actually going to say in advance what needs to be done. So I'm asking you to apprehend her. We shall come back to that, and I have just promised it again in the direction of Mr Paternotte, in your direction, I hope, quickly, with an OMT opinion if they make time for it, with all the other questions they have. Then we can judge with each other what is needed or not. In fact, there are parts in your motion that can be applied at the moment and for which there are also possibilities. The first observation is, I think, also a little bit about the research that went out from the AOb. That happened from the magazine, by the way, not from the board. However, a method of calculation has been used which is really different from what the OMT itself usually does: based on the number of tests done in the test street, the percentages are also examined. Anyway, it goes too far to say all that here, but I would like to add that there has also been some confusion in the last few days because the AOb has suddenly introduced a very own method of calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u365	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Westerveld...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u366	Please hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u367	... whether she's willing to hold this motion. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u368	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go see what comes to us tomorrow, and then we'll decide this weekend. Because we're going to vote on the motions on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u369	I don't know if there's gonna be anything coming to you tomorrow, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u370	What if the motion isn't stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u371	Then I'll advise against the motion. Then I think it really goes too far to say what's going to happen, because there's not even an OMT statement about it yet. Let's include the OMT's judgment in that too. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 54 by Mrs Westerveld. I can give that motion judgment room. If it's accepted, we're gonna see how we can fit it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u372	Let me come back to the previous point. The minister says, "Let's not anticipate what the OMT decides." Of course, we've been in this corona crisis for 20 months. It's not like it's just a whole new set of measures or anything. They are measures that already exist in neighbouring countries. We always look at what the OMT does, but of course we also look at what works in surrounding countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u373	I understand. But you are re-introducing the duty of the mouth cap in the vo. The OMT deliberately didn't do that the last time. So it is also a question of whether this might be necessary in the light of current developments. However, we know that a large proportion of these infections are in the p.o. sits where there is no cap. So there are some considerations to say: be careful now. It's quite another procedure if you're going to do it like that. I do not think that is wise at the moment. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 55 I think I just had. I am now at the motion in part No. 58.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u374	The motion in part No. 55 you haven't had yet. The motion in part No. 54 you've had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u375	The motion in part No. I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber, with one comment. As you know, once again, collective agreements are agreements made by employers and employees. In that we cannot enforce anything against them. What we can do, and I am prepared to do, is bring this issue to their attention so that it will be discussed further by them. Then we'll just have to wait and see what results come out of that gremium. We are not sitting at that table, and you know that was a very conscious choice. With that remark I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u376	I see Mrs Westerveld nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u377	I should like to ask a question about the decision on the motion for a resolution on item No. 54? Look, we're all here in some kind of kumbaya mood. But the fact that a motion can apparently be covered by the expectation that there will be money left in a budget, and to spend just as much as 3 million for that, I do not quite understand. I believe that has been tried in recent years. Then it was always the judgment: we don't know that at all. I was just wondering. I don't want to lie down for it. I'm fine with it all, but I just don't quite understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u378	I indicated in the written reply that there might be some room for manoeuvre. We're not getting together here anymore. This is the moment when we discuss the budget together. I say, if it's possible. But again, that will have to prove. And, of course, your Chamber is up to the vote on that. Then the motion to part No. 58. I do not recommend this, also on the basis of what I have already said in the direction of Mr Wassenberg. I don't want to anticipate that. Mr Bishop asked about the black book on education and its appreciation. I admit I didn't say anything about that in my first term. I would have liked to say something about that, in the sense that I like this black book... you can say a lot about that. First of all, it is written in the direction of those who are now engaged in the cabinet negotiations. It's a bit like Mr. Beertema's call-movement. That is what the black book is addressed to, so it is not up to the outgoing cabinet to make all kinds of judgments about it. Nevertheless, we have already made an appointment with Mr Kirschner, whom I myself once received in my Chamber, to discuss this with him. We're just gonna do that at the Ministry. But I'm not gonna promise that we're gonna give a complete assessment of black books. Then the end is really lost, you know, because a lot of black books are being made. But I'll give you a brief appreciation of that conversation, in a progress letter or something, if that's what's going on in the future. In addition, knowing what the SGP is like in education policy, I can see some differences between what you have always brought in and what was in the black book, but of course it is up to you to judge it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop's motion on item No. 60, I'm not sure. In the regulations and the systems of the schemes, it has always been the case that when municipalities have more pupils, they also receive more money. But apart from that, we have made very clear agreements. The first tranche is completely exhausted. The second tranche has been opened expeditiously, on the basis of a request from GroenLinks, among others. I believe that this request was made together with the Labour Party. That tranche has now been opened. The municipalities and schools can make use of this. And of the other 160 million we have said that we are involving them in the ibo Educational Housing, about which your Chamber has just asked me to come up with a policy response. I still have to talk about this in the Cabinet, but it will come as soon as possible. It doesn't seem like we're suddenly going to have to introduce other arrangements here, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 64 by Mr Van Baarle. I can give him a ruling room. It's basically about going through what we've done in the past year. We've set up a hand-out. It wasn't meant for one year, so it's very good to keep going through with it. That's about promising advice. The teachers' collective has done a tremendously good job, including involving teachers in conversations: how can you do this best? I am very willing to continue to use everything we have done on that point, in fact you say so in your motion too, so I can give this motion judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Sixty-eight, I'm not sure. I think it is very important that we do the good things with each other, but to start organizing all kinds of public campaigns again... We just had one with regard to education. That's been a very nice one. A lot of things have taken place in the care. I think everyone's really got their hands full on big issues right now. It may be possible in due course, but I would advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 71, I also advise against it. It has already been agreed that in the curriculum that is already there, it is simply an opportunity to pay attention to this. Schools are allowed to make choices about how they do that. For the rest, we have agreed on the curriculum adjustment. The proposals will come to your Chamber in due course. At the moment it is not appropriate at all to suddenly put all new things into it. I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mr Ephraim's two motions. I have to tell you that I think it is very nice, original motions, but it is quite difficult to carry out the requested official work and to come up with all kinds of policy proposals. First, the motion in part No. 76. It's just part of the current curriculum. Music and culture will also be part of the curriculum as part of the curriculum. We even know from the NPO that these things are sometimes also used to strengthen the executive skills, working together. I have already pointed to your colleague, Mr Van der Plas, who is even your neighbor at the moment, even though there is an aisle in between, that the whole curriculum adjustment is just running at the moment. We're not gonna put all kinds of new things in there again, as far as this is new, because this is already part of it. I therefore advise against this motion, but that does not mean that it is not being worked on. We don't need a separate motion for that. On the motion in part No. Seventy-seven I hesitated. I dissuade her, simply because this cannot be translated directly into policy, even though the Chamber says with 150 members: we are going to do this. That's no different than when we do the good things together and... I know, for example, of the pressure equipment, which the Chamber has also agreed to, that it brings great joy in schools when you can get extra hands on the school for the support and teachers can really focus on what they have chosen for their profession, namely teaching, and focusing on the guidance of children, rather than on all kinds of things around it. They can then be taken out of their hands. With regard to the 500 million which your Chamber, and I also thought Mr Ephraim with his group Group Van Haga, has agreed to the General Political Reviews, I know that there was cheers in education, because at least part of the gap, as it was mentioned, could be closed in this way. Who knows what's going to come out of a coalition chord that might make a lot of cheering again. That brings joy. That is how we can do it, but it must really be based on very concrete proposals. It would also be very nice if, perhaps from Mr Ephraim's point of view, there could be very concrete proposals which would receive support from the Chamber and which could further strengthen that cheer in education. I therefore dissuade the motion, but I do see it as a permanent task to untie these feelings in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u379	Let me begin by thanking both directors. Coming back to Mrs Van Engelshoven's words: what you give is what you get. It saves a lot when there's just business with directors as well. That's what I wanted to say. While the motions were given an appreciation, I was also doing some homework on the amendment to item No. Thirty-three that I filed, about low-literacy. This has been "dissuade" from the governor, with the reason that cover is returned to the treasury by appointment. During that homework, I discovered that there was an under-utilisation of 72 million on the IOP's catch-up and support programmes and that this money was used to cover the NPO's extension measure, in line with the Van Weyenberg amendment. Then I thought, "Look, that's a precedent." Maybe that'll give some room to still get judgment Chamber for my fantastic amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u380	I'm gonna see which ruler wants to answer that. Then we'll have to clean up again, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u381	As that happens, I will take a moment to say to my fellow chamber members that, despite the judgment of a ruler, they are of course free to vote when they know that this can be done. Then they can just vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u382	The Minister has the floor. It deals with the financial aspect of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u383	Mr. Chairman. I've given the motion judgment chamber. Then we can figure out some really good things. I do not have the amendment in front of me now, but if I have it right in my head, it is amounts that are structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u384	I don't think so. It is precisely a question of releasing an occasional sum of 3 million. That's exactly what I'm saying, because I don't have the amendment on me either. I think I even mentioned in my contribution that it is, of course, a drop in the ocean. I have also expressed the hope that it will make room for structural expenditure in this area. It has certainly not been made structuralally in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u385	I've also been held to what we agreed to in this cabinet. I cannot simply give away this under-exhaustment here. I'm gonna take a closer look. Should I reach a different verdict, you will hear it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u386	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u387	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-18-tweedekamer-12.u388	I would like to thank the leaders, the MPs, the people in the public gallery, the viewers at home and the support. We are going to vote next week on the motions and the amendments that have been tabled. The budget will be voted on in the first week of December.
