ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the own-initiative proposal 35129, the proposal for a law of Mr Van Raak declaring that there is reason to consider a proposal for a change in the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. "Three is charm." With these words, on 1 September last year, an unnamed Member of Parliament opened his contribution to initiator Van Raak in the first term during the debate on the binding corrective referendum in the Lower House. And now I open it up again, but this time I will read parts of the contribution that I invented myself in this Upper Chamber. The first time we had a binding corrective referendum in the Netherlands was in 1999. Then the bill for the referendum fell at the very last moment in this First Chamber due to the efforts of VVD-senator Hans Wiegel, honorary member of the VVD. This striking referendum killer effectively destroyed the referendum during the Night of Wiegel he mentioned. The second time was almost twenty years later. At last we had a referendum, this time only consultative, but Minister Ollongren of D66 did not know how quickly she had to break the referendum law. This happened after only two referendums had been held. Three times with the European Constitution, but it did not fall under the Advisory referendum Act, I say to Mr Van Schalk, who just interrupted me. I remember very well how this happened here with a roll-call vote on 10 July 2018 in the Upper Chamber. 40 votes in favour of abolishing the newly introduced referendum law, namely VVD, CDA, D66, CU and SGP, and 35 against. The same parties now have only 34 seats in this new First Chamber, but this aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u4	For the sake of the Acts and the clarity. There are three: Ukraine, Drag Act and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u5	The European Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u6	No, no, uh, sorry chairman, the law I meant didn't go through, so Mr. Otten is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u7	For the Acts, President, there were two. If you'd like to record that, thank you. In any case, the SGP voted in favour of abolishing the consultative referendum, as I have already recalled. 61% of voters said no to the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine. This was on 6 April 2016 with a turnout of 32.2%. By comparison, the turnout in the European Parliament elections in 1999 was only 30,0%. I have never heard that this called into question the legitimacy of the elected Dutch MEPs at the time. But even the planned evaluation of the consultative referendum could not be delayed. With the speed of light the referendum was put by the minister and the coalition in the state-law garbage. Mind you, Minister Ollongren, who has once been elected a representative of the people and has never been accountable to the electorate. Regentesk behavior of the top shelf. Thanks to Mr Van Raak of the SP, there is now a third chance to introduce a binding corrective referendum. The committee of former CDA Prime Minister Biesheuvel recommended a binding corrective referendum as early as 1985. That was the forerunner of the Remkes Committee, which came to the same recommendation 30 years later in the Low Thresholds report. Three times is a charm. I followed the debate in the House of Representatives in September on this referendum initiative law, and saw with horror and increasing amazement how Mr Van Raak was overwhelmed by emotions, and was so overwhelmed with support for his initiative law that he lost sight of the ball and completely forgot to fight against the poisonpill that was equally quickly incorporated into his initiative law by ChristenUnion and VVD. The poison pill is, as you know, a built-in legal construction that will enter into force with listed companies if an unfriendly takeover attempt is made, making the target as unattractive as possible. In American politics this is also called a "wrecking agreement," but more often a "killer amendment." A killer amendment is an amendment made by a party that is against a certain law to make the law unusable and useless with that killer amendment. Mr President, that is exactly what happened to this initiative law. The VVD cynically supported the killer amendment for a high turnout threshold, and that high threshold is now also enshrined in the Constitution, which makes it almost impossible to revise. But the VVD voted against the Referendum Act itself, together with CDA, SGP and DENK. D66 also participated in the killer amendment. How cynical you want it. 70% of Dutch voters are in favour of a binding referendum, according to recent figures from the Social Cultural Planning Bureau. Therefore, probably there was no referendum on the abolition of the consultative referendum and Minister Olongren opened up her legal trick box and invented a legally very controversial construction, in which the Repeal Act of the consultative referendum entered into force before it was published in the Official Journal at all. That is not legal, because laws cannot enter into force until they have been published. Back to Mr Van Raak's initiative law. The SP and also D66 seem happy with this empty shell. Apparently, people are thinking, "Well, now we can make a nice ornament with a referendum in election time and the voter is not going to go into all these details." The Dutch voter, who is now much better informed and is also much more critical of the whole political company, is underestimated. Mr. Chairman. Our group actually sees two currents in this Upper House. One movement says: well, it is practically very difficult to reach this outcome threshold, but better something than nothing. This threshold is quite high, because it is half the turnout of the Lower House elections prior to the referendum. The other movement says: this is no use, this is a dead letter; let us try with a novelle to improve this, for example by regulating the threshold of outcome through a normal law rather than through the Constitution, because then you can at least adapt it more easily. Our group is leaning towards this latter option, as we are in politics to effectively modernise the Netherlands with working solutions. We do take the Dutch electorate seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u8	I understand that Mr Otten had written his text for his political relatives in the House of Representatives. I heard them say in the Lower House: rather an imperfect referendum than nothing at all. May I ask Mr Otten if he agrees with Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u9	It was not Mr Baudet, it was someone else. But that aside. Of course, we work with all kinds of people. That may have escaped Mr Dittrich's attention, but perhaps that is also better. I say there are two currents. There's something to say: well, at least we have something. This is, of course, an unworkable situation in practice. As a party, I say to Mr Dittrich, you have supported that killer amendment, perhaps thinking 'we need a two-thirds majority, so we will do so', but that has made this referendum a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u10	But I understand from your contribution that you ultimately choose to vote in favour of this bill, including this nasty amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u11	I wasn't finished. I have some time left on my clock and I didn't think I said that. We want a working law that is better than what is now in store.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u12	It was indeed Mr Baudet who had the debate in the House of Representatives and who said there: rather an imperfect referendum than no referendum at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u13	I have nothing to do with that, and I'm not referring to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u14	I have come to know Mr Otten as a great supporter of realistic politics. We both agree that the amendment of the initiative proposal by the House of Representatives was not our preference as regards the threshold of outcome. But that outcome has come to fruition. The House of Representatives has decided this. Where does colleague Otten now see a solution to change the position of the House of Representatives via a novelle? Because that is, of course, the only interest of a novelle. When the House of Representatives says "no, we had been clear after all," nothing happens and this initiative bill also dies a very annoying death. So where does Mr Otten see a majority in this House for a novella who asks the House of Representatives to do something that that Chamber does not want to do? That majority will only come if, in particular, parties who were in favour of that amendment are going to say here in this House: do a novelle. Finally, it is still the initiator who, with the advice of the Minister, has to decide to do so. Is it very realistic to choose that path?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u15	There are certainly practical problems. We recognize that, too. That's why I'm saying there are two currents. You can say: well, at least we have something. Or we don't have anything. There is something to be said for that, but in practice there is nothing to be said for that. I heard, for example, Mr Ganzevoort van GroenLinks this morning tell a very clear story about how to achieve that. That's our line, too. We would like this law to be improved. You may be pleased with this law, I say to Mr Kox, but in practice... I myself conducted a referendum campaign in 2016. That was mostly about the turnout. That was an upcoming campaign...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u17	... and that's what it's all about. It's actually made impossible, so Mr. Kox...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u18	Your answer is clear, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u19	You don't mind if I answer the question, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u20	Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u21	We agree that the law deserves improvement. If you adopt a law that you're going to try to improve afterwards, isn't that a more sensible and realistic course than a law that you disagree with at all, right away by asking for a novella that falls into a dead swamp in the Lower House? I have also challenged other groups: let us be creative. If this bill is passed here, what can you do at second reading? Our Constitution is an old scripture, but it also contains all kinds of possibilities. Wouldn't it be much better to see how to make an imperfect law more perfect than to make an imperfect law an impossible law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u22	I understand you say that. I would, too, if I were a party to this initiative law. But in practice this law will probably never be applied, so you make the voter happy with a dead sparrow. We would say: try to improve that law now. The fact that your group did not have a clear view of the deal that was made at the time in order to obtain that support and accepted this killer amendment, and the fact that D66 voted for it, is quite amazing, by the way, which is a pity. That is why we say: let us at least try to make it even better in this Chamber of reflection. You are not very ambitious, I say to Mr Kox, because this can be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u23	Mr. Kox. Third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u24	My party has been in favour of a corrective referendum for years. This ambition is expressed, among other things, in the initiator, who has managed to get a project started and submit it here, already approved by a majority in the Lower House. So we don't have to talk about that ambition; it manifests itself here. The question is: how do we proceed with this? It cannot be Mr Otten's ambition to say: we show our muscles, we say we have to do something and then the House of Representatives must say what we want? The House of Representatives is not going to do that in this case, at least I have not received a single signal from anyone. Isn't it better to look for more creative solutions to improve the law? In that case, we both have our way and then the initiator is happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u25	The relations in this First Chamber have, of course, changed since the beginning of 2019. The whole idea was that you could call the House of Representatives to order through the First Chamber. At least that was my idea. Unfortunately, all kinds of internal hassle have prevented this plan from being implemented, but that would of course have been the ideal way to do it. I think that we should try to pay tribute to Mr Van Raak, who has come up with this initiative law, in order to improve the proposal. We are also very much in favour of a remedially binding referendum, a democratic emergency brake. That's what we're all for. Only because of this killer amendment, because that is in fact it, where the VVD voted very cynically, to immediately insert that poison pill into it, so you have to get very high results. If the turnout of the Lower House elections is 80%, you're talking about 40%. That's just what all experts said, as one could read in Kristof Jacobs' piece, which is also very interesting, about the dynamics of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u26	Thank you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u27	... so we would like to improve it, I say to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u28	Thank you. Mr Kox has asked three questions. We're really running out of time. So I'd like to ask you kindly to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u29	There's plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u30	No, Mr. Otten, we don't have time. We have a tight timetable here. All the agendas, including those of the Members of Parliament, the Registry, the Directors, the Committees and Mr Van Raak, are aligned on this schedule. The request is therefore that we do not make such comments on the timetable that we all have to adhere to. Go ahead, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u31	I assume that Mr Otten is open to this and that, should there be other creative solutions that do not come to the destruction of the law at an early stage, he is prepared to discuss this. I will go into what would still be possible in the second term, without the destructive approach to asking for a novella that is stranded in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u33	May I comment on that for a moment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u34	I will first give Mr Verkerk time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u35	I wonder whether Mr Otten's proposal is realistic and whether it is not really a killer's proposal. The reports state that Mr Van Raak explicitly said in the House of Representatives that he is not going for a novelle. Only recently, in the debate in the House of Representatives, he said that a novelle is actually semi-unconstitutional. Now you're going to ask him for your own conviction something he can't do and what he doesn't want to do. That sounds like a killer's proposal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u36	Thank you for taking the word "killer" from the killer amendment from my speech immediately. That's good. But I would just like to respond to Mr Kox, who says that I am proposing a destructive approach. That's out of the question. On the contrary, we are very much in favour of the correct binding referendum, but not in its present form. I have heard other speakers express exactly the same objections. I have heard a number of good characterisations from Mr Koole and Mr Ganzevoort. We are concerned with the outcome. If that can be achieved otherwise because the House of Representatives understands that it was not so smart, that the electorate should be taken seriously and that it should be better, then we do not care how that happens. If you have a better way to change it, we'll go along with it. We are concerned about the outcome and not about the procedure. We would like a working referendum that is also somewhat realistic. I have just said that I was allowed to campaign for the association agreement myself once. Everything was aimed at achieving at least that 30% threshold, and that was then succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u37	Thank you. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u38	But I can tell you that was a terrible job, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u39	In conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u40	I would like to ask Mr Otten whether he would be more certain about the argument I put forward, because Mr Van Raak has just said so far: I am not going to do that. So the path you're sketching isn't really realistic. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u41	Mr. Otten, the floor is yours and then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u42	I believe that Mr Verkerk's Christian Union has tabled this killer amendment. I would like to say to him: you have contributed to the cause. It's a pity you did. You could have done it, but not through the Constitution, because now there is also a need for a Constitutional revision, elections and second readings. In practice, this threshold cannot be changed now, at least for the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u43	Please continue your argument, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u44	Hence our position: try to improve it. The way in which is then point two. Mr President, I see that I have 12 minutes left. I shall rejoice in you by finishing, because then you will be able to walk back into your schedule. As I said, we are taking the Dutch electorate seriously and we are not going for transparent electoral symbol legislation. So let's get this right now, for example, through a novelle if other people have better ideas for how this can be arranged, then we are also open to this so that we get a good, effective, correctively binding referendum. That is the position of our group. We look forward to the discussion with the initiator and the minister. I see I've got 11:17 minutes left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Doornhof of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the binding corrective referendum is one of the most important recommendations of the Remkes State Committee on our parliamentary system. Mr Van Raak, who has already been the initiator, is to be commended for having started to do so, because reports from state committees are all too often found in a desk drawer. We can't let that happen to Remkes. We need a parliamentary system that we want to pass on to our children and grandchildren to work for them. For example, it is crucial to ensure that people in the Netherlands feel truly represented here in The Hague. For this reason, the CDA generally welcomes the proposals made by the State Committee. But it is precisely the recommendation of the binding corrective referendum that I made on behalf of my group on 4 February last year, when we discussed that report. In a large part of my group there are objections to the referendum. In the Netherlands, in particular, it is often necessary to find solutions to major issues through the compromise. If a bill gets voted down, then what? What is the meaning of that? Let alone the question of what to do next. That is also what the Council of State has put forward. Mr Verkerk has already spoken about this. For today, it is important that Mr Van Raak's proposal differs in important parts from what is contained in the report of the State Committee. This also has to do with the amendment of his proposal, which has been put forward several times. That amendment didn't do the bill well, you could say with a sense of understatement. A very high outcome threshold has been included in the proposal. That threshold actually means that it can only be rejected by voters if there are no votes equal to half plus one of the number in the most recently held Lower House elections. That's a huge number. It is also higher than what the state committee had proposed: one third of the electoral population. It was right that College Nicolaï praised Mr Koolen for the proposal to have scientists look at the reality of that threshold. What we thought was confirmed: in practice that threshold will never be met. Of course, it is important that a group of voters should not be able to pull an emergency brake too easily, but that emergency brake should not be completely out of reach. Then, as Mr Ganzevoort said, as a constitutionalist, you will only raise false expectations. Instead of making sure that you bind people to politics here in The Hague, you just push them further away from you. In the written questions I told Mr Van Raak that a referendum was introduced not so long ago in Limburg. There the thresholds are lower and yet the SP Group spoke of a nepreferendum and did not support the proposal for the introduction of the referendum. Perhaps Mr Van Raak can reflect on that today. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has said that there is an understanding of the high threshold, but that is, of course, different from saying to the First Chamber that this proposal is good enough to accept. My question to the Minister is therefore: is it wise to provide the Constitution with additional provisions which will in principle have no need to exist? Mr. Chairman. The proposal also includes the possibility of choosing a referendum at a decentralised level. The state committee is, of course, about the parliamentary system at the state level. I am therefore not surprised that there is no recommendation on the decentralised level. Mr Van Raak said: I see that report as a kind of basic plea for the binding referendum. I can follow Mr Van Raak in that. The point here is, of course, that one can say that lack of substantive representativeness is related to issues such as Europe and immigration. It has less to do with topics at local level. However, the CDA Group has pointed out that we have set up our system as a decentralised unitary state. Local authorities can be linked to joint management tasks and have to deal with inter-administrative supervision from above. You know Mr Van Raak's proposal for a negative list at a national level with exceptions that cannot be subject to a referendum. That's the kind of negative list you should have for a decentralised level. That is what Mr Van Raak's proposal was based on. But precisely because of the amendments, the possibility of that negative list has been removed. This had to do with making that decentralised referendum optional. So you can no longer point out any exceptions to the principle that decisions can be subject to a referendum. Mr Van Raak is not to blame for this, but perhaps he knows where it came from that error in the amendment. His bill has become problematic as a result. In his written reply, Mr Van Raak said: "Cases which may be the subject of a referendum may be determined by further arrangements." But if you want to designate universally binding rules at this level, then as a constitutionalist, you must now include the power to do so in the law. That didn't happen. That was originally in Mr Van Raak's proposal. He has also recognised in the Lower House that you have to make exceptions at a decentralised level. In the light of all this, how does he look at his reply to the First Chamber that exceptions can be designated with further arrangements, without giving the legislator any power to do so? So much for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u47	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Mr Koole is first. Mr. Doornhof, there's another interruption for you. There's even two of them, and there's another one coming. Oh, no, he's going somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u48	I would like to ask Mr Doornhof the following question. At the beginning of his speech he talked about the threshold of outcome. He said that the threshold, as it is now designed, will never be reached. He asked the petitioner and the minister to reflect on that. My first question is: what does it mean for the CDA group if the outcome threshold will never be met? Wouldn't it be better to improve this in one way or another and, for example, to change it by means of a novelle? The second point. In his written questions and also now Mr Doornhof rightly calls for a great deal of attention to be paid to the decentralised level, in which, as he says, there are'mistakes'. If there is to be a novelle, that error could be corrected accordingly. What does the CDA Group think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u49	I understand Mr Koole's questions. The CDA Group is looking at the proposal now before us. I have pointed out that a large part of my group has reservations in principle about the referendum in advance. But if you look at what we have in front of us, you can see that those two important bottlenecks are in there. We've already talked about answering like-dan questions. It's kind of hard for me. Because of everything that lies ahead, such as whether we are not a country of compromise and the question of the threshold of outcome, there is something we must say no to. I do not want to anticipate other proposals. This is what we need to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u50	I am not asking you to anticipate other specific proposals, but I am asking you whether Mr Doornhof would like to go along with the next thought on the first point. If it is clear that the threshold will never be reached in a referendum at national level, what he himself says, then it is an impossible point. The second point is that if mistakes have been made at a decentralised level, also according to the CDA Group, then we need to see how we can improve that so that those errors can be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u51	But then I'm gonna go back to the position we have in this house. If the CDA Group were to vote against this proposal, but if a majority were to vote for it, I would find it worse with this proposal than with a system where you are making people uncomfortable with a dead sparrow. It does mean, however, that we cannot judge a proposal that would be different until it is there. Then there is the question of how we deal with the fundamental concerns that we, as the CDA Group, have in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u52	Next, I say that I understand that balance very well and it does come at the moment that there is something there. However, it is not unimaginable, let me put it this way: there will soon be a proposal to look for a model of change. In the end, we may come back to an amended proposal, of which the CDA can say: we can take our position on this on substantive grounds, because there is a law that is in any case good in itself. Hence the question of whether you would like to consider the possibility of applying for such an amendment. That's not a like-dan question, it's a question of the process. That is the question of whether we are willing to look together for an improvement in the proposal, which we both now say is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u53	I understand the questions and they are rightly asked. I should not repeat myself, but the question is, of course, what the CDA Group thinks of the idea of a correct binding referendum. I have spoken about this before, so I have not entirely repeated it now. I made important comments on 4 February last year. We all see that there is reason for improvement. If that proposal were to come back here in an improved version, it would be very much the question again whether my group would vote in favour of it, given the points of principle. I'm just saying that it would be less bad for our Dutch people in the end if, despite the CDA vote against, something came up that wouldn't make it worse. You and I agree on that. That would make what you have put forward about the problem that is in here, namely that you are pushing these dead sparrow citizens further away from you than you are pulling them towards you. I don't want to raise false expectations. I would like to point out that you will have no guarantee of a vote in favour of that proposal from the CDA Group in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u54	I understand that very well. My question to Mr Doornhof is whether he would rather vote in principle against a law which he ultimately disagrees with than to vote against a bad law, which he disagrees with, but which is simply not good enough yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u55	I have to admit, that would be easier to vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u56	The question is whether that goes by the principle or just along the road of more, let me say, opportunity argument. In the end, Mr Doornhof and his group will be able to put that question on the table. That is the question of whether they want to support that improvement path. That will be a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u57	Of course, my speech also focused on the following. I did not see what you put forward from your group until the first time. I could imagine that you would be more sympathetic to the proposal than my group. I would have liked to convince you that this is even worse than a technically well-corrective binding referendum, so I say. However, this has not proved necessary. So that's where we find each other. So I say that you are really not helping us with what is now going on, even though we would be in favour of a referendum in principle. I have also said that I am not going to raise false expectations here in case there is an improved proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u58	I am listening to Mr Doornhof of the CDA and I get the feeling that bears are being searched on the road to undermine this proposal. This certainly applies to the issue of regulating at a decentralised level. If I understand correctly, the objection is that no negative list has been drawn up for the decentralised level. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that the Constitution at least offers the constitutional possibility of organising referendums at a decentralised level. A negative list does not necessarily have to be regulated in the Constitution itself. This can also be regulated by an introduction law. Perhaps it is even more practical that this negative list should simply be included in the referendum regulation of the municipality, province or even in this case the water authority, which is also happening in referendum regulations at the moment. Does Mr Doornhof agree with me that this is a much more workable road than necessarily having to be set out in the Constitution? If not, why should this necessarily be in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u59	I would like to thank Mr Van Hattem for his question, which makes it even clearer. In itself, we agree, regardless of what you do in principle with a referendum. Only, Mr Van Raak had provided for this. He had foreseen that at national level the legislator could say: but at a decentralised level these, these and these generally binding rules cannot be subjected to a referendum. But that is the mistake, I say, which was made at the time of the amendment. That has not returned when amending that proposal. To be able to identify exceptions at national level is no longer part of Mr Van Raak's amended proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u60	I understand that, but the point is right: why should it necessarily be regulated in the Constitution and cannot it simply be regulated in an introduction law? That is also an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u61	However, you must now lay down in the Constitution the power for the legislator to designate such an exception. If you do not tell the legislator that he is allowed to do so, then municipalities simply have every right to hold a referendum on everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u62	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u63	I think that is too easy to assume, because there can of course still be an introduction law attached to it. Other legal provisions specifically regulating this can be laid down. It is not in this way that the Constitution states that this is a non-exclusive right. In my view, this is not something that automatically results from this, knowing that there is still a need for an introduction law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u64	Perhaps Mr Van Raak will be able to help me make it clear to Mr Van Hattem what my point is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u65	Mr Doornhof says that there are fundamental objections to the referendum in his party. That was clear to me. I have never seen the CDA vote in this or another Chamber for a referendum, so there is no doubt about that. But Mr Doornhof also says: that amendment that has been adopted actually makes the law an empty shell. But that amendment was adopted with the support of your group in the House of Representatives. Did you communicate that with your group in the Lower House? Did you ask how you could have voted for it? Another important question is whether you have received signals that your group in the Lower House would still be prepared to say: that was completely wrong and that part should be included in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u66	We have consulted our group in the Lower House. On the other hand, you also know that we do not have joint group meetings and that we ultimately make our own considerations here. The initiative was, I believe, of the Christian Union. In the end, with other parties as well, there was a blow. I don't have to judge that either. We see what has come out of it. If you are all here to see that this is a dead sparrow, then I think that Mr Van Raak's proposal has become much worse and much worse. In fact, you're raising expectations that you shouldn't want to raise as politics, because you're not gonna live up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u67	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u68	Then to Mr Doornhof, too, the question of how to proceed in advance, because we do not yet have practical experience with this threshold of outcome, and it comes to the conclusion that it is a dead sparrow, while the Council of State says 'anything at all', the Minister of the Interior says 'anything at all' and a majority of the House of Representatives, including your group, at least on this point, says 'anything at all'. Why the idea that that part of the law, which your group entered in the Lower House, would make the law a dead letter? That would be very cynical if your party had done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u69	Mr Doornhof, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u70	Mr Kox also put that question to Mr Koole. I have to say quite frankly that when Mr Koole proposed to involve scientists in more or less black-and-white, I also thought a little: good proposal, and perhaps better to have it actually recorded, but we all know that this is not going to work. You are right to point out a number of sources that may have a different view. That is difficult to say, because all these sources are not so explicit either, especially the Minister. Nor have I for nothing asked the Minister whether she actually thinks what Mr Kox has put forward, that it is quite good...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u71	Thank you. I'm afraid I have to finish a little bit, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u72	So my conclusion was that it was not for nothing that I thought it was right and that I did not expect this discussion either. Scientists who have looked at electoral behaviour, including internationally, have also said that this is a dead sparrow. Of course, you're welcome to have that discussion, but I thought it was a run-of-the-mill race.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u73	Thank you. Mr Otten has just one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u74	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. We recently had a referendum at the CDA on the list-leader election. I will not talk about what this has brought about, but I do not think there was any threshold. How does Mr Doornhof explain that? For the Dutch electorate there must be a threshold of outcome, but for his own party members apparently different laws apply, because there is no threshold of outcome. Would you mind explaining that to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u75	Mr Doornhof may be brief before we go through the CDA's party regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u76	Thank you for that restriction you're giving me. The involvement within the party is apparently so great that a huge turnout is assured in advance. Then you don't need an outcome threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u77	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u78	Well, I think the referendum showed above all that you had 13 000 non-paying members, but that is another matter! But I don't think the turnout was that big at all. How big was it then, I ask Mr Doornhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u79	Mr Doornhof does not need to respond to this in the microphone, I see. Do you, Mr. Doornhof?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u80	The turnout was at least 80%, confirmed by the group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u81	I shall now give the floor to Mr Fentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u82	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal before us today is a proposal to amend the Constitution in such a way that a correct referendum seems possible, but cannot be achieved in practice. So it's not a nice bill. The successive state committees all agreed that a corrective referendum is an excellent means of improving the functioning of parliamentary democracy. It is a fact, however you may think, that a correct referendum can be a perfect test of whether a compromise can be reached in the parliament, and can count on sufficient support from citizens. But what is now being proposed is a referendum that does not deserve that name, a lot has already been said about it. That is a referendum that should not be on subjects that affect the sovereignty of the Netherlands or a referendum whose outcome is determined primarily by the citizens who do not participate. I've heard the term "popper" come by more than once. I have also heard passing by "a wash nose," "a dead sparrow" or "the emergency brake hanging out of reach." It's not the petitioner, Mr. Van Raak, who's responsible for these flaws in the bill. It is the government parties in the Lower House who have castrated their good proposal expertly and silently. This was done through amendments tabled by the smallest coalition partners. At the initiative of D66, all international conventions were identified as subjects for which public acceptance should not be assessed by referendum. At the initiative of the Christian Union, an unachievable outcome threshold has been introduced, so that the referendum will not work in practice. And then these two parties in the Lower House voted in favour of the bill they castrated. The Group of the Forum for Democracy does not consider that to be a good policy. Last Friday, the Prime Minister started his press conference announcing the resignation of the cabinet, with a reference to the previous Liberal Prime Minister, Pieter Cort van der Linden, who has been here before. I would also like to refer to him, not because Mr Rutte did so, but because the First and Second Chambers appointed Mr Cort van der Linden the best Prime Minister of the Netherlands in the 20th century in 2002. And that best Prime Minister ever, the twenty-first-century prime ministers, we have to wait and see. He recognised the dangers of the party system and therefore tried to include the corrective referendum in the Constitution. However, the Christian parties were opposed to this. They would rather let the shepherds of the herd decide than the sheep themselves. And now, more than a century later, the VVD and D66, parties that call themselves liberal, think about this just as much as the leaders of the columns of that time. A hundred years of education in the Netherlands, citizens' development, countless billions spent on education and training, ambitions to become the world's most educated state, and still think that citizens are too stupid and too impulsive to decide for themselves on important issues of state. He must leave that to people's representatives. Cabinet and parliament in this country are constantly looking for support for their decisions. Nothing is more important than acceptance, they say. Well, Mr. Chairman, nothing gives as much support as a corrective referendum. You submit the decision to the people and that says yes or no. There's no way you can get more support. But most Dutch politicians find the voter only scary. They prefer to seek support from the people they know, from former politicians who are more interested in all kinds of groups. That is why we have here, since the Wassenaar Agreement, social agreements, pension agreements, a climate agreement, national prevention agreements and much more. The Netherlands is completely closed with chords, but agreements between who and who? Nothing is asked of the Dutch people, except once every four years to fill in a box with a red pencil. Dutch politicians, also many sitting members of this Chamber, would rather lobby than seek support from the electorate. It is therefore not surprising that there is a growing gap between citizens and politics in the Netherlands. The best way to bridge that gap is the correct referendum. Then why don't we? The proposal before us is not a strengthening of democracy, which we know is possible, because this debate has been going on for a long time. Everyone here has already recalled the history of the discussion on this subject. I can go back even further than all the historical facts already mentioned, for the lovers of history. I go back over 2,500 years and then we can see that introducing a referendum takes guts from the parliament. Seven centuries before Christ, the Greeks founded the city of Locris in southern Italy. That was the first city to get a written law. The people there were very satisfied that they were the first to have a law. That law also stipulated that anyone who wanted to table a proposal for a new law had to do so with a noose around the neck. If the proposal was not accepted by the people, he was immediately hanged. That takes guts from the legislator, that was a really correct referendum! The Forum for Democracy does not think that we should go so far here now. But I do call on the author, even though he has expressed his hesitations, to come up with two novelles: firstly, to get the too high threshold out of the legislative proposal, and secondly, to remove the international treaties from the list of subjects on which no referendum should be held, or even, if I have understood Mr Koole correctly, to withdraw the proposal so that we can talk quietly about a better formulated proposal, because I think that is really necessary. And I think we all know that we need to improve something about the Dutch political system in order to prevent the constant degradation and erosion of it from really leading to disasters. The correct referendum as it is now before us is rightly referred to as a pacifier. But what we need is a valve. That is what the corrective referendum should do. I would therefore like to call on all those who are still reluctant to meet the electorate to reconsider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u84	Many forms of government have been tried and will still be tried in this world of sin and misery, and no one claims that democracy is perfect or omniscient. It is even said that democracy is the worst form of government, with the exception of all the other forms that have been tried from time to time. And many who are following recent developments in the United States find with horror that Western democracy is cracking in its joints. The rule of law and the constitution of what many consider to be the cradle of modern democracy are being tested. But also closer to home, the democratic rule of law is under pressure. Where institutions are in principle intended to limit the power of the State and thus protect citizens from abuse of power, the supplementing affair in the Netherlands has shown that the opposite has taken place. Dangers from the inside and from the outside are real. Our democracy and our rule of law therefore require permanent maintenance. This is an important conclusion from the report "Low thresholds, high dikes" of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. Yeah, a conclusion we share. Rule of law and democracy must and must remain strong in order to ensure their proper functioning. Today's proposal to include a binding corrective referendum in the Constitution falls, as far as our group is concerned, into the category necessary. The people, the people, will be given the final say in important decisions if it is up to the author of this constitutional amendment. And so it should be, as a very recently responsible organizer of a binding referendum. I personally did not like the result. Yes, we are in favour of more direct democracy, and so we are in favour of an amendment to the Constitution which will make it possible by means of a binding corrective referendum. I would also like to mention the main arguments. These are: sovereignty, acceptance and dynamism. Sovereignty: who ultimately decides in this country, in the Netherlands; who is the highest power? The people, of course, at least on paper. But how great is the influence of the Dutch people on and their involvement with the State? Is that not the key to the legitimacy and credibility of our democracy? How's this going? Well, here's the deal. The State of the Netherlands is growing year after year. It expands, strengthened by a web of bureaucratic, supranational institutions that seek to acquire their own power and influence, such as the ever-expanding European Union. On the contrary, the influence of the Dutch people, of the citizen, is strongly waning. The involvement is under pressure and sovereignty is declining. Restoration and strengthening are therefore necessary. This proposal gives the people more and direct influence. That contributes to their sovereignty. And that influence is needed. The Dutch political culture is one of coalition formation, the polder model of cooperation and cooperation, and compromises are, of course, inevitable. However, we believe that ignoring large groups of voters through exclusion is detrimental to the image of democracy. We are seeing it again now in the run-up to the elections, and we do not think that is acceptable. Whatever the influence of the people is, the apparent tendency of some to paint certain legislation as too complicated, too complex for ordinary people. We heard that again today; a simple yes or no would be too difficult. That argument was also raised at the time by opponents of universal suffrage. The referendums held so far have shown that many voters are well aware of the content of the question submitted to them. But what was their vote worth? A detour via a goat path led to an inlay sheet. The voter was cheated. And because the outcome of the underlying referenda was not binding, so could we. Therefore now binding; binding makes sovereign. Mr President, then item 2: support. In our view, the possibility of the people making binding final decisions on important decisions will directly improve proposals by the legislator. The binding corrective referendum thus strengthens representative democracy, as it forces people's representatives to weigh more strongly in advance the will of the majority of the population, i.e. whether a proposal has support. A parliament that permanently feels the hot breath in the neck of the electorate who has entrusted it with the power, where the electorate knows that if it gets too furious, the discipline of the ballot box can be applied as an emergency brake. We believe that this will provide a basis for legislation and for our democracy as a whole. And then dynamics. Referenda ensure dynamics, more and more public debate, a lively democracy and no more inserts. Tie it up. The outcome must be taken over. So it has influence to vote. It makes sense to discuss this subject in the public domain, on birthdays, along the line or in the sports canteen with family, friends or strangers. It also works incredibly binding in a rather polarized society. Referenda can bring together citizens with a totally different voice on concrete issues. The trade union activist and the capitalist entrepreneur together for nuclear energy and against absurd climate plans. How beautiful that would be! Moreover, is it not surprising that in a world that is becoming more dynamic, where everything is moving faster, information is at its fingertips, the population is only allowed to colour a box once every four years for four years, an unclear mix of policies, without it being able to adjust? In 2017, the last time we voted for the House of Representatives, it was not about that very comprehensive climate policy or about the transfer union, which flows tax money into southern Europe. But that policy of climate agreement to transfer union came into being. And with a modern, innovative and dynamic democracy, it is appropriate that the people, the electorate, not even every four years but structurally have the opportunity to adjust. Sovereignty, support and dynamism are therefore arguments for the binding referendum. These arguments are much preferable to a number of objections that we have heard today, for example as regards the relationship with the representative system. The referendum would undermine the representative system of polder politics. That is partly true, but that is not bad at all, because it is precisely because of the polder that a number of major themes in the Netherlands have not been made a clear choice for ten years, or a choice that is not in line with the will of a large majority of the population. Furthermore, the binding corrective referendum is only an emergency brake that is applied only when the majority of Parliament makes obviously wrong decisions. We therefore believe that the referendum strengthens the system of representation. Now for our criticism. Article 89d. Unfortunately, my group has to note that Mr Van Raak's original proposal has not improved because of our counterparts from the States-General across the Binnenhof. What's hot: it's gotten considerably worse. The exclusion of international treaties is, of course, already quite a misapprehension. We read in the amendment that the argument for this is that such an international treaty is the end of a very long, a lot of talk and negotiations with several countries and that the signature of the Netherlands under a treaty would become an inherent uncertainty by not excluding it. That is true, of course, but in return the people get sovereignty back. If the cabinet comes up with excellent treaties, why should the people reject them? Precisely in the case of international conventions negotiated for several years, a result may at some point become more important than the result. Making this referenceable could put an end to these endlessly long negotiation sessions and provide for simple and decisive agreements on broad lines, which could also easily be judged by the population. My group is opposed to this exclusion, but is prepared to accept it anyway, in order to constitutionally anchor the binding referendum. Even less to be said is the addition to Article 89d, the contested threshold on which much has already been said, added to the House of Representatives. This is simply an attempt at political sabotage, which I shall return to in a moment. A referendum with this threshold will only be valid if the majority is the same as in the last Lower House election, 40% or higher, often cited. It's demotivating. Those who go out to vote will be punished if too many people stay home. The three position papers that Professor Dr. Hendrik, Professor Dr. Van der Meer and Dr. Jacobs have written, are clear about this: we should not do that. I'll take a look at the arguments. In similar countries, the outcome threshold is significantly lower. The threshold can lead to demobilisation campaigns: it doesn't make sense, stay home. I have to say, however, that housing campaigns are not working very well in view of the developments with the contagion rates. A threshold of around 40% is unrealistic and unnecessary, they write. Application would mean that all three referendums held in the Netherlands, the Sleep Act, the Ukraine referendum and even the EU Constitution would be invalid. That can't be the intention. This threshold of outcome is a huge obstacle to this legislative proposal. I just called it political sabotage, and of course it is. I liked the term castration too. Political sabotage by a number of notorious referendum opponents. Because, Mr President, it is remarkable that a number of major parties who helped this amendment to obtain a majority in the House of Representatives, the VVD and the CDA, in principle, are opposed to this instrument of the correct binding referendum, whether or not this amendment is in it. That's kind of a scorched earth strategy. If the binding referendum is to take place, then it will have the highest possible outcome threshold, making it virtually impossible to use it. My question is whether a political deal has been reached, for example in the House of Representatives. Is this article "Maybe" the representatives know that D66 swapped out in exchange for support for the exclusion ground on international treaties? That threshold has to come out, which several parties argue today. If you want to work with this, not as it is now, in the Constitution, but outside. Unfortunately, this Chamber cannot make any legislative changes, and that poses a great dilemma for our group: to accept this law, including this jumble of limitation, or to vote against it, to send it back and to throw away the baby with the bath water? That brings us to the question: what is the alternative, then what can we do? A novelle has already been cited a few times, an addition to the law in which the outcome threshold could be killed or at least reduced. How feasible is that? Has the other side of the Binnenhof taken notice of the position papers? How do they assess it and what happens in the event of a novel request? Who's gonna serve that? Does the initiator do that, does someone else? First Chamber versus Second Chamber if they don't agree, isn't that catch 22 where the proposal gets caught between the two Chambers? This minister has had bad experiences with that. We would like to hear from the initiator his views on this dilemma, we have already heard it from many parties, and we would also like to hear his consideration of the possibility that such a change of the outcome threshold will be timely and positive by the Lower House and here in the Upper Chamber. That's what the bill deserves, and so does the initiator. It has fought hard for it and, whatever the outcome, our appreciation and compliments on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. Mr Raven indicated that he would like to speak on behalf of the OSF in this debate after his installation. So it's his maiden speech. I call Mr Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u86	Mr. Chairman. I'd better get started. Can I take off my mouth cap? Good. I'll do that. As a legitimate democrat, on behalf of the platform of local and regional parties in the Netherlands, the OSF, the Independent Senate Group, I attach great importance to the opinion of the population. Who is not, here in this Chamber, I would say, because here the foundations of our rule of law are anchored. The standard attitude in a democracy is that the people are always right. Is that so? The opinion of the population is usually based on emotion, often not on ratio. If we had always followed the opinion of the majority of the people in the past, we would still consider the earth flat at the moment and I do not think it is. There are no easy decisions in a complex, coherent world. The art is to find the right balance in arguments and to find the balance between opponents and opponents. This requires a thorough balance of interests. The majority of citizens normally do not have time for this, and that is why, in a parliamentary democracy, politicians who look into social issues on behalf of the population, and on the basis of principles and well-balanced party programmes, they decide on social policy issues. However, it is becoming more and more frequent that parties do not even bother to make a balanced party programme. This does not fit in with our parliamentary democracy. Some parties even work exclusively with demagogues and folk-like one-liners to throw hardworking Henkie and heavy-duty Greetje on the wrong foot. In today's fast-paced world with daily surveys of the opinion of the people, it seems that the representatives of the popularly represented parliamentary democracy are no longer in line with the opinion of the majority of the people. That is why the call for an instrument for the people to be able to correct the opinion of politicians is increasing. The population must be able to control the controversial decisions taken by the parliamentarians representing the people. That call has now been translated into this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary democracy has so far worked to a reasonable satisfaction. The call for a remedy has been alive since '66, but has never really been addressed by the voters. There is an attitude of "not optimal, but we are satisfied." The need to amend the Constitution for this purpose has so far only been felt in part by the electorate. Experiments with the consultative referenda are getting bleak over and over again because the voters stay away massively. In order to make it look like anything else, the organisers of such a consultative referendum even consider it a success if 70% of the voters do not show up and do not participate in that referendum. Today, too, there are proposals for lowering the threshold. I think this is the world upside down. There is insufficient confidence in the means of popular intervention. It is true that the population will emerge when its interests are at risk of being harmed, even at a higher threshold of outcome. Mr. Chairman. Before we can reach a final referendum, it must be clear that the rule of law can achieve real profit with the remedial participation of citizens. This requires balanced procedures to ensure that we do not throw away our parliamentary democracy with the bath water and by incendiary referendums with massive lies and deceptions among the people rather than bridging, as has now happened in the United Kingdom. There must be a strong support for the people to overrule a parliamentary decision. Only then will a corrective referendum provide sufficient support for the population. We therefore tend towards a qualified majority decision by the population to make a correct referendum valid and to put aside a parliamentary decision or a decision by the municipal or provincial authorities. Switzerland is an example of a country where a corrective referendum has been in operation for a long time, without this really leading to a split-up among its citizens. The usual practice of having several referendums there at the same time and also with a high frequency prevents one subject from taking precedence and claiming unbalanced attention. At the same time, this system makes it difficult for voters to get rid of it and leads to a deepening of the underlying problem and the necessary choice by theme. Unfortunately, however, this system is not ahead and we must therefore look at the present system. I told you, the people aren't always right. Generating a simple majority at this time is therefore, in fact, insufficient guarantee for ensuring a stable democracy in the future. At this time of social media it is relatively easy for Brexit-Boris or tumultuoso-Thierry to generate fake majorities and destabilise European partners. Under the guise: "the liar tweets tonight" folkmen and demagogues can nowadays with one tweet make democratic states feel great again, with one tweet putting walls around a state, with one tweet ensuring that babies and young children are taken from their parents and imprisoned without trial, and with one tweet parliament buildings stormed by the people. Such a future for the Netherlands must be avoided at all times. A qualified majority decision for a corrective referendum offers more guarantees. Shoemaker, stay with your reading. The population doesn't have time to continuously explore social issues. For this, the people appoint politicians in a parliamentary democracy. I agree that the voice of the people must be decisive and that the people must be able to activate an emergency stop, but ensure balanced and stable procedures that guarantee the security of our current rule of law for the future. In the second reading of the Constitutional Amendment, the government's platform of independent parties expects OSF to have the effect of the law in such a way that the Netherlands does not fall into its own hands with the introduction of a corrective referendum. In this respect, we expect an adequate response from the initiators and a commitment from the government. Depending on the answer, we then determine our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u87	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Please stand still, if you'd like. Dear Mr Raven, dear colleague. Congratulations on your maiden speech and welcome to the First Chamber. It has not occurred to me before that a person is installed as a member of the First Chamber and on the same day both his maiden speech and his group chairman will be. You can write that scoop on your conto! Allow me to outline some of your background. You took several vocational training courses, including at the Limburg Executive Academy. Early on, you were professionally involved in the administrative and social life of the municipality of Sittard, first as cashier of the municipality and later as director of the Sports Foundation Sittard. Between 2002 and 2020, you were an entrepreneur in the field of ICT and energy. You have also been present for more than 35 years as a presenter at several local and regional broadcasters. From 1990 to 2020 you have been an uninterrupted city council member, first from Geleen and later from the merged municipality Sittard-Geleen on behalf of the City Party for Sittard, Geleen and Born. You were also divided over three periods of almost eight years of alderman in both municipalities, most recently in 2020. You have given up that position to become a member of the First Chamber and chairman of the Independent Senate Group. In addition to your professional and political-administrative career, you are also socially involved in many local organisations. For example, you are a member of Men's Choir Mignon, chairman of the Catholic League of Elders Sint Augustinus Geleen and board member of the Chamber Football Association Awt-Gelaen. In your letter to the City Council of Sittard-Geleen in which you explained your decision to quit as alderman, you wrote that you want to work in the First Chamber for the interests of municipalities and provinces and want the voice of the independent local and regional parties to be heard. That is what you started today! Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further entry into the Upper House. I shall now suspend the sitting so that I can naturally congratulate you on behalf of all my fellow Members at a distance of 1.5 metres. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations. I would ask Members to remain seated for a while. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u88	We are now ready for the response of the initiator and the government in the first term. I give the floor to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would of course like to congratulate Mr Raven on his maiden speech. There are many groups in the Senate, but there is only one Senate faction. I hope he still has a lot of fun in this wonderful work in this beautiful room. We're standing here today in the Knight's Room, not in the First Chamber. I also think it is nicely symbolic that we stand between the First and Second Chambers. A debate is now taking place in the Lower House because the cabinet has fallen over the supplementing affair. It is very nice that the Minister can be here. Across the street, we are talking about a lack of confidence in politics. I do like that we are standing here now, also symbolically, between the First and Second Chambers, to see if we can come up with a solution. I'm just gonna take today's state-law bible. "If the substantive representation deficit fails, it may lead to discontent and even alienation of the parliamentary system. Lack of public acceptance of government decisions can make government policies ineffective, damage the basis for political decision-making and undermine the democratic rule of law." Members of the House could have read this to us by now. What the state committee is proposing is this referendum. Mr Dittrich said it very nicely: it has been a political thriller for many decades. He warned the Chamber, his colleagues: do not let this die in beauty. The romantic in Mr Dittrich can be heard here. That's what I want to talk to you all about. But when you talk about "die in beauty" in a political thriller, that also implies death. The referendum has often been declared dead, but never died. That explanation of death actually began in this Chamber once, in 1999. It has been referred to, the Night of Wiegel. All VVDs were in favour, except Mr Wiegel. Those were the days. The referendum was declared dead, but came back again because the government came up with a new proposal. Then the Balkenende II cabinet actually declared it dead. But then there was an advisory referendum on the European Constitution. Mr Kox has campaigned for this. Oh, my God, those were such good times. Although it was a consultative referendum, this led to the submission of two legislative proposals, one for an advisory referendum and one for this binding corrective referendum, for MPs of the Labour Party, GroenLinks and D66. In fact, quite soon, after two referendums, that consultative referendum was declared dead by the government. But also the binding corrective referendum, which I am defending here today, was declared dead by the then creators of the Law of the Labour Party, GroenLinks and D66, even before they had filed it. It disappeared in a drawer, and that's where I found it. I took it out. Why did I do that? To, as a State General, also on your behalf, fulfil our constitutional duty. That's why I became the owner of this law. I thought you should take a constitution seriously and, as a Lower House, you should file a law that was passed at first and second reading and comply with your constitutional duty. Together with this minister, I defended this in 2017 in second reading in the Dutch Parliament. That failed. So, what's the number of times President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). But it took less than a year for a state commission to be set up on the initiative of the First Chamber. It was an initiative of the VVD, led by Johan Remkes. This state committee has done something special. The state committee has made a very good, thorough analysis of our parliamentary system; Mr Koole can talk about it. The State Committee has said that this binding corrective referendum can be a very nice solution to the waning confidence of citizens in representative democracy. It is a strengthening of representative democracy. "The binding corrective referendum can be understood as a form of counter-pressure, intended to give extra strength to existing democracy and thus to strengthen the essential functioning of the political checks and balances in Dutch democracy. And," says the committee, "just those groups of citizens, which are less addressed in representative democracy and in the parliamentary system, and who use less other channels of political participation, such as lower and secondary education, can agree as an instrument in the referendum." And finally: "They see the referendum as an appropriate means of political engagement and participate more actively than in other forms of participation. The referendum is thus also a good rebuttal of diplomatism." Mr. Chairman. Some of your members have said, including in the written preparations: Mr Van Raak, what do you think? What do you think of this or that? I deliberately held off that boat because I also do not have the pretence to know as a simple MP better than the state committee. Mr Otten bears the report of the State Committee under his arm. I also think that when a state committee writes such an opinion, we should take it seriously as a State-General, as First and Second Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u90	I agree with Mr Van Raak. I have a question for him. In the final report of Remkes "Low thresholds, high dikes," on page 151, a threshold of "A majority of at least one third of those entitled to take part in the vote" is advocated. That seems to me to be a reasonable number. How does Mr Van Raak explain that, unfortunately, this discussion was derailed in the House of Representatives, which led to such an absurdly high threshold in the proposal? That is a purely enlightening question to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u91	I listened with particular attention to Mr Otten's input. I agree with almost everything he has said, but not with the final conclusion. I come back to this in detail in my reply. Through the President, I would like to ask Mr Otten to wait a moment, so that I can answer this in a broader context, rather than a bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u92	I see Mr Otten nodding in agreement. He's already getting his mouth cap, so I think he's on his way to his chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u93	But if I do not come back to it properly, Mr Otten knows how to find the interrupting microphone. That was special. What was also special was that at first I was a little bit nervous about the fact that the Council of State did nine months on an opinion on a law, on which they had often given advice in the past. I thought, ladies and gentlemen of the State Councils, it can't be that hard. But when I got the advice, I figured out why. The Council of State says: "The possibility of holding a referendum is one of the measures that could contribute to reducing the feelings of isolation, alienation and exclusion existing among certain citizens." They call this binding corrective referendum a nice ending, an ultimatum remedium, but at least a strengthening of representative democracy. That means that something really has changed at that time. Something has really changed in recent years. I have tried to get this straight and I see three points in the debate on this referendum. It started in the eighties. Many of your Members have referred to this. State committees in the 1980s already started on this subject. I do not want to say that the referendum was then a hobby, but the people who warmed up most for it were highly educated, mature citizens who already found their way into politics. Maybe that was about the time of neoliberalism. I don't know. But it was above all a liberal upper layer that was extremely enthusiastic about the referendum. In addition to these groups, you can now see many other groups, especially those who have less faith in politics, who may have dropped out or who doubt whether they are going to vote. People who say: I don't want to vote anymore because if I say something, they won't listen. People with less access to politics. Those groups have embraced this medicine. The State Commission and the Council of State actually say that this is a strengthening of our representative democracy. That's a second time that's happened. In the past, until the debate on the abolition of the consultative referendum by our Prime Minister, the main argument was always used: yes, that referendum is a form of direct democracy and therefore not to be combined with our representative democracy. Sometimes thinking takes some time. Sometimes it takes a few decades to get over it. Sometimes thoughts have to mature a little. Now you see that the binding corrective referendum is, in fact, a general one, even today by this Chamber, seen as a strengthening of representative democracy, as a final piece. That is an important development. A third development, which I have seen in any case, is that the debate has become increasingly detached from party politics. Of course, that has to do with the fact that we have appointed a state committee. A state committee looks on our behalf all of us. That does not mean that we have to agree with everything that a state committee says, but you name it and let it compromise you. When I was treated in the Lower House, I sometimes felt like I was in the Senate. I must say that I sometimes felt a little bit like I was in the House of Representatives in the Senate today. Anyway, whatever I noticed, the referendum is some kind of glue. The harder you try to push it away or throw it away, the harder it sticks. The referendum is not going to leave us. The referendum stays. The referendum won't go away. The referendum is about to take place. Why is that gonna happen? The people want it. 70% or more of the population says: yes, we do not want to interfere with politics every day, but we do want to be able to intervene when necessary. That is also very logical, because the voters choose their representatives. It's actually very logical that you can whistle back your representatives when they do things you don't want to do. Every company does that, I say to Mr Meijer. I didn't make this law. That was rightly noted. I didn't write this law. This isn't "the law of Ronald van Haak van de SP." This is the law suggested by the State Committee, with the explanatory statement of the State Committee. I can imagine that some of you would have liked to enter into the debate with me on all kinds of points and would have liked to know what Ronald van Raak thinks about that. I deliberately held that off a little, because I don't think that's what it's supposed to be about. It's not my referendum. If I had made this law, it would have been very different, I would also say to Mr Otten. It would have been very different. Only, this is the law that makes me feel like the counselor. I support this law because I believe that this law, this referendum, should remove this democratic means from party politics. This referendum is not SP. It's not from GroenLinks, the Labour Party, D66 or the Christian Union. At the time when the report of the State Committee came and there was a law that fit that, as a Member of Parliament, I tried to merge one and one into two and defend that. I tried to stand above the parties as much as possible and to see what consensus is possible. Is it possible in this country to make a referendum that has sufficient support in the States-General, the First and Second Chambers, and with which we can work? That was my goal. I want to defend that today. From now on, I would like to answer all your Members' questions, starting with those of Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u94	Mr Van Raak is the initiator of this law. Now he's saying, if I'd thought of it myself, I would've done it differently. It is new to me that he sees it more as a continuation of the Remkes report. How else would you have done it? What important matters would you have done differently if you had made the law as you see fit? What else would you have done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u95	I campaigned together with Mr Kox in the referendum for the European Constitution. The Ronald of Raak-wet would have looked really different. It is not very helpful to the discussion, but if Mr Otten wants to know, I am in favour of, for example, a referendum when sovereignty is abandoned. That could be a municipal reclassification or an international treaty. It doesn't matter. I believe that sovereignty lies with the people and not with the representatives. So the moment sovereignty is transferred, I, Ronald van Raak van de SP, think it's a good idea that you ask the people, the bearer of sovereignty, if that's a good idea. That just has nothing to do with this law. That's a very different law. This is a consultative referendum in case of transfer of sovereignty, while this is a corrective referendum at the time when the States General, First and Second Chambers, have passed a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u96	On the question of sovereignty, I agree with Mr Van Raak. Anyway, that's not what this is all about. I thought you might also have some ideas about turnout and outcome thresholds, etc. You mentioned the European Constitution. Now my memory leaves me in the lurch as to what was the legal basis for that referendum on the European Constitution in 2005. I thought that was done ad hoc at the time. So the question to Mr Van Raak is: how does he see the possibility in the future of applying such ad hoc arrangements outside this law to certain urgent matters that live with the population? According to Mr Van Raak, are there any?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u97	Yes, because the government or the House of Representatives, a political group or a number of political groups in the House of Representatives can simply make a law for a referendum that is or is so consultative. For a binding referendum, you will have to change the Constitution, but in the future any MP can take the initiative for a law to organise a consultative referendum. That can be tolerated and with everything and everything. In any case, that does not stand in the way of this law if it reassures Mr Otten. Mr. Ganzevoort mentioned a phoenix to fly. A phoenix is a mythical bird that doesn't exist. I'm trying to get this bird that does exist to fly. Let me start with the amendments of the House of Representatives. Mr Kox mentioned them. As far as international treaties are concerned, I have just told Mr Otten what I think of them. When it comes to the local referenda of the CDA, the provincial and municipal referenda, and the water boards.................................................................................................................................................................................................. You don't have to. You can do it. I think that is appropriate, because municipalities are very different. I find it fitting into Thorbecke's house. There is a secondary capacity between the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities. It's not like we're in charge of them. So the fact that there is a constitutional provision here that it is possible and that these municipalities can also set their own conditions, their own thresholds, what is and what is not, was, in any case, an improvement. What I thought was that all these thresholds did not have to be included in the Constitution. We removed the mayor's appointment from the Constitution. It would not be constitutional in nature, but thresholds for the implementation of a referendum would be constitutional. There's a difference of opinion on that. The Council of State didn't think so. He insisted that this should be done in the Constitution. I believe the government, too. In the end, if this proposal had come through your Chamber, my proposal would have been to make an implementing law for all thresholds after the elections. So also for the signatures and for the outcome. I would also like to say to Mr Otten that these thresholds do not have to be so high. I don't care if they're lower than the state committee. But I think that if a state committee makes a proposal after a long study, you should at least take it as a starting point for discussion. What I have seen happen in the House of Representatives is that this discussion has been closed with regard to the threshold of outcome and that a choice has been made for that. That is an explicit choice made by the House of Representatives, and also a choice that parties had to offer some comfort in order to enter into this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u98	I would like to continue at that point, where referenda are concerned at a decentralised level. In itself, I agree with Mr Van Raak that it is better as it stands in the proposal, that you leave it to provinces, municipalities and water authorities themselves to decide whether they want such a binding referendum. But my point was, in my first term, that a constitutional error was made in this matter, now that we agree that you should also be able to limit it at this level. You would have done the same in your proposal, but that has been dropped in the course of the amendment. That is quite a flaw in your proposal now. Would you care to go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u99	I do not think the authors of the CDA house saw that as a defect at the time. They just said: it says now that it has to be, these are the terms, and that's not how we got married in Thorbecke's house. I think that, in my own way, was the argument put forward by the authors of the amendment at the time. They have said: let us give it a chance. I'm sure there are a lot of municipalities that would like to get to work on this. There will also be municipalities that say: our people do not want that. Then why impose it on a local level? Then it is also up to the municipalities, provinces, water boards and public authorities themselves to make demands. If we want to make national demands, we can, of course, do so in the implementing law which is still in force, which includes, among other things, the thresholds for holding national referenda. Of course, you can also set conditions for those referendums at other levels. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u100	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on this. This is exactly the point I discussed with Mr Van Hattem in the first term. I'm glad you're being recognized for doing that. It's just, it's not right that you can do that on this level, too. Where we are now the constitutional legislator, we must ensure that the legislator has the power to impose those restrictions. It is precisely in this proposal that you should ensure that we, as legislators, have the opportunity to make these exceptions. That is a lack of the proposal now, I ask Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u101	No, I don't. Then I feel more in favour of Mr Van Hattem's line that this is certainly not of a constitutional order. In order to determine how a referendum in Hilvarenbeek or Den Bosch should be carried out, I do not think it would be constitutional. If it is constitutionally established that there is a possibility of holding a binding referendum, for example in a municipality, it seems possible to give national guidance, if that is desired by the Second and First Chambers. That doesn't seem weird at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u102	Mr. Doornhof, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u103	Mr Van Raak had done well. Apart from whether such a referendum is optional or mandatory at a decentralised level, it is a matter of agreeing that certain decisions at a decentralised level cannot be subject to a referendum. But then you have to make provision in this proposal that you, as a legislator, have the possibility of doing so. That's a problem with this bill now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u104	That's not a legal problem. Mr Doornhof pretends it would be a legal error. No, that's just a choice. It is a choice to leave it to municipalities, provinces, water boards, public bodies. That was the political choice. That's not a legal error or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u105	I have a question about the last part of Mr Van Raak's speech just now, just before Mr Doornhof. He indicated that the choice of the outcome threshold as it currently stands has been a very conscious, clear choice within the balance of the House of Representatives. He even indicated that it offered a number of lots of comfort. Is he saying that it makes no sense to go back to the other side with a novelle, because he already knows what the outcome is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u106	I heard many spokesmen in your Chamber say that the threshold of outcome is too high. Many of your members want to send me back to the House of Representatives, asking whether it can't be reduced. A number of Members have also asked whether these Lower House Groups are going to do so. I heard the spokesperson of the VVD say that that threshold is high, but the VVD across the street put it in. I heard the CDA spokesman say that that threshold is high, but the spokesperson across the street put it in there. I have heard the Christian Union spokesperson say that it is high, but it is made of its own accord across the street. If these spokesmen could say that they have heard that there is a difference of opinion now, I will not even finish my answer here. Then I'll pack my things and run across the street now. If it's possible, I'm gonna do it. But if that's not possible, I'll get into the chase patate, but I don't know if you're a cyclist. Then I sprint, then I demarre from the Knight's Room, knowing that I will never arrive in the Lower House. That too is something the First Chamber should not actually ask of me, because the First Chamber knows that that is impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u107	At the exhibition, Mr Van Raak forgot to mention at least one party who felt that it had been even higher; that was the party of the SGP. But I do appreciate his answer. So he actually indicates: it makes no sense for me to go back. That means that he doesn't run back to the other side either, where he wouldn't get much hearing at the moment. But I understand that you do not intend to do so in advance, except when parties are going to say: we are going to bring our parties so far across the street that they want to adjust him down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u108	As a simple trial counselor, I am willing to do anything, if there is any possibility. If there's any clues that I can do it, I'd be happy to do it. By the way, I would also like to point out in a moment why the problem is much smaller than many spokesmen have suggested here. In my opinion, the problem is much smaller, but I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u109	Mr Van Raak would like to present himself as the representative of the House of Representatives. He is, at the moment, speaking on behalf of the Chamber. Perhaps then he can explain to us what those in-depth considerations were about getting to 40%, because that is an important part of the question for me. There's been an extensive analysis of the state committee. He said, "33 is on the high side." We also heard later from other experts that that really is the top. What we have read is that the Council of State actually says, without much argument: this seems to be a logical argument on paper, namely half of the last time. That has played a role in the House of Representatives and the Minister has said that she can imagine something about it. What was the deep, well-founded reasoning of that 40%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u110	Well, let me begin by congratulating Mr Ganzevoort, and also Mr Koole, for consulting experts. That's good. That's what the Senate's supposed to do. That's what any people's representatives are supposed to do. Mr Ganzevoort's remark that the Lower House had no idea what the threshold meant... I don't know. Look, it's not that complicated. Experts have looked into it, but it's also arithmetic. And I think that MPs can do the math, too. The House of Representatives who proposed this can count on it. I believe that the state councils that have proposed this can also count. And I'm sure the Minister can do it for sure. They all said, "Let's try this, let's do this." Then I see a number of problems. And I agree with Mr Ganzevoort's analysis and Mr Koole's analysis that this is a very high threshold. I, as Ronald van Raak of the SP, would much rather have had a much lower threshold. It's much lower than the state committee's. But Mr Ganzevoort's conclusion is that there will never be a referendum and the referendum will not work, and I do not agree with that, and I will try to do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u111	At that point I may have a follow-up question, but now the question was: what was the argument? I didn't say people can't count. I did ask: where is this argument? I didn't see that one, actually. And I do not know whether Mr Van Raak, who represents the Chamber here, has seen that there is an argument as to why 40% is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u112	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u113	This threshold has been necessary to offer parties comfort in order to do so. That is, I think, in my analysis, the consideration of the author of the amendment. Well, I didn't recommend that; so I can't defend that here, because I didn't recommend it in the Lower House. I am standing here defending this law and saying that this is the threshold that the House of Representatives has set. Where every threshold is, of course, arbitrary at the moment, because for the SP or for the Christian Union, politicians can always interpret a result differently. And what I always find: an outcome threshold suggests an accuracy that may not be there either. We are all representatives of the people of different parties. So depending on our party, our person, the subject and the outcome, MPs will always rethink after a referendum and politicians will always be able to make their own new consideration. I think it could have been done very well with a lower threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u114	I am grateful to Mr Van Raak, because he actually says that this was just necessary to offer comfort. So there was no substantive argument behind it. It was necessary to offer comfort. I note that this was necessary for parties who do not really want to support a referendum. And I find that interesting: that he is defending a proposal here with a threshold of outcome that is included for parties who do not want a referendum. That is why I ask him: has this not been a destructive amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u115	No, it would have been destructive if Mr Ganzevoort had been right not to hold a referendum. That is not what the experts are saying either. That's three experts. And as it should be with experts, they have three more stories. I do not agree with the conclusion that this law does not make a referendum possible or even possible. I'd like to explain that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u116	That is what we would like to hear later, because these experts have come to that conclusion for a reason. My question concerns the following. Mr Van Raak just said: if I knew now that the spokesmen in this Chamber had spoken with their kindred spirits and there would be a majority for another proposal, I would run straight back to the House of Representatives and then I would arrange it. He used a cycling term for that. What exactly does Mr Van Raak say here? We are judging here on substantive merits a legislative proposal. And when we make comments about this, in this case about the threshold, he says: but I want to know whether the political relations in the House of Representatives allow that. Is he saying that we should put aside our substantive considerations and just see if this is feasible in the House of Representatives? Mr Van Raak can't be serious!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u117	No. I do not agree with Mr Koole's conclusion that this proposal makes a referendum impossible. He uses heavy words like "popper" and I don't know what. I heard "wash nose," I heard "pollination" in this room. In my day, you didn't hear words like that here in the Senate. I do not agree with the conclusion that this bill makes a referendum impossible. I'd like to explain that in a moment. When it comes to the level of the thresholds, I said in the House of Representatives: there will have to be broad support for this. Wide support, a two-thirds majority, preferably even more. This is an important democratic means, an important strengthening of our representative democracy. Then I believe that these thresholds should have broad support. This applies to the signatures, and that applies to the outcome threshold. Wide support. So I'm looking for a threshold that can count on broad support. Is that just counting heads? No, it's not. But every threshold we meet now is arbitrary, because we will only see in practice in the course of time what a good workable threshold is. And what is a good workable threshold? That is a threshold that is feasible, but that is also a threshold that ensures that the majority of this parliament in the First and Second Chamber says: that is a good threshold. And right now, we're not that far, because the threshold of the SP and the threshold of the Christian Union are miles apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u118	That is precisely why there was the idea to ask experts not only to look at what is possible here, but also to look at other countries. They really come to the conclusion that this threshold is too high. Now Mr Van Raak says: I do not see any enthusiasm for that in the House of Representatives. But does Mr Van Raak rule out that if there is another discussion in the House of Representatives, with the arguments that these experts and possibly other experts also put forward, the people who have spoken on this issue would not be able to change their opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u119	Yeah, but I can't hear those noises. I can assume not only that, as Mr Koole does, or no, it was not Mr Koole, but Mr Ganzevoort, that Members of Parliament cannot count. That's too skinny. I can't go across the street with "you can't count." That's not a story. I can't go on with that. I need clues. I can make changes on everything else, or no, I can't promise them, because I have to go back to the other side of the street with them, which I represent. But it cannot be done at a point that is so appropriate for the House of Representatives that it has so explicitly amended it. Because then Mr Koole also has to see he's experienced enough there for him to know that I'm definitely in the chase patate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u120	Mr Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u121	That the House of Representatives can count, I'm sure. No one here has said that the House of Representatives can't count. Some parties, I would almost like to say, can count only too well, but they know that there will never be an effective referendum with a 40% threshold. No one said they couldn't count. It is about whether new arguments, presented here in this Chamber of review by outside experts, would not be able to convince reasonable MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u122	I don't have any leads on that. Those MPs have, of course, seen the same thing. I wish the House of Representatives had invited experts and experts. But there have been many experts and experts here and it is not that they only know how to find their way to the First Chamber. They also know how to find their way to the Lower House. However, that was not of decisive importance to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u123	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u124	Mr Van Raak says that he does not have any indication of this, but he could, of course, achieve it by taking back this law, entering into the conversation and seeing if new information might be the basis for a different position, so that everyone is really convinced that it is workable, whether there might be a lower threshold, which I hope will make it a truly effective instrument. Then why does Mr Van Raak not take this back? Perhaps he will come back to this later in his speech in order to hear the kind of sound he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u125	I heard the representative of the VVD today say, "God, that threshold is high. I have also heard that from the CDA, the Christian Union and from everyone and everything else. But I haven't gotten any news yet that the brothers and sisters across the street think differently. And then Mr Koole sends me into the chase patate and I cannot commit that demarrage. I can't commit that demarrage until I see the breakaway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u126	It is, of course, a question of whether the threshold is too high and whether it can be changed. Can Mr Van Raak explain again what the term 'comfort' means and what parties explicitly needed that comfort in order to move the proposal forward? The VVD, the CDA and the SGP I have heard most explicitly say against it. These are parties who have all tabled that amendment in the House of Representatives. I call it 'political sabotage', I call it 'obstruction' to raise the border. What parties does he see who need that comfort? And what's that? Who are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u127	I would like to say that, but at least let me say this to Mr van der Linden. I do not think that this law makes a referendum impossible. On the contrary. I think we have a theoretical problem that can be practically solved. The threshold we now have is directly linked to the outcome of the Lower House elections. That problem can be overcome if we follow the Minister's suggestion, also in her answer to questions from this Chamber, by saying that as much as possible those referenda are held in principle at the same time as those Lower House elections. If that happens, the outcome threshold is by definition not a problem. We have the other advantage that all those people who are going to vote are also invited to give their opinion on that referendum. So you'll get a very high turnout before that referendum. If you do that, if you organize those referendums together with the Dutch Parliamentary Elections as much as possible, you will not only solve the problem practically, but also strengthen the means. Then you also strengthen the turnout and make sure that almost every Dutchman really starts thinking about it, forming an opinion about it and discussing it. That is, of course, very nice democratically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u128	Mr. Van Raak, do you have any blocks where you'd like to handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u129	I come a long way with these questions. After my comments on the threshold, I have some things to say, but I can do so as long as the President allows me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u130	That'll be until 5:50, minus the time the minister needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u131	The minister's gonna have to pull my jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u132	Mr Van Raak talks about holding referendums at the same time as the elections. That is an interesting aspect, but the question was: what comfort and which parties? I ask that for the following reason. We can prevent, Mr Van Raak, that you enter the chase patate by asking the representatives of those parties in the Upper Chamber if they are willing to call their party members in the Lower Chamber during the suspension. You do not need to organize a round table and can they ask their party mates in the House of Representatives the question: boys, we have all talked here about the threshold of outcome, which is far too high. Then We will hear it from them in the second term, and then We will be able to address them. Then we also know where we stand when we have to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u133	Mr Van der Linden is a practical man. I like that. I just addressed the representatives of the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union. Mr Van der Linden does the same. If they're willing to make calls across the street, fine, I won't stop them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u134	Because all of a sudden it was about organising a referendum at the same time as the elections, yet a question to Mr Van Raak. He said that we should keep referenda as much as possible equal to the Lower House elections. Now he also knows that hopefully we do not have a new cabinet every year on the basis of new Parliamentary elections. This happens in principle once every four years. We have already discussed this in the first period. If there is a law that is passed in the new period after a six-month period and is put to a referendum, then we should wait until 3.5 years before we can vote on it. That's not feasible, is it? So the idea of summoning many people by organising referendums as much as possible simultaneously with the Lower House elections may then be possible for a single law, but most of the laws cannot. So this is not a real solution. Does Mr Van Raak agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u135	No, because the outcome threshold does not determine whether there will be a referendum. That's determined by the number of signatures. Soon, 400,000, 500,000 or 600,000 signatures will have to be collected. That happens with great laws, great things, which are also controversial from that moment on. At the moment when 400,000, 500,000 or 600,000 signatures are collected for a law, we do not think: let's settle this quickly. I don't see big laws like this coming in the first year of a cabinet either. It usually happens a little later. But if something is controversial, there is in many cases, I think, but perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about it later. There is no reason not to wait. There is no reason to do so very quickly. There can always be an exception, that's right, but in most cases I don't think it should happen very quickly. And the further you go into that cabinet period, the more logical it gets. The idea that, on the first day that a cabinet starts, a large law is immediately promulgated that is very controversial, so that 30.00, 400,000, 500,000 or 600,000 signatures are collected, I do not think this is going to be the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u136	That is how I know Mr Van Raak, I say with some exaggeration, because he talks about it nicely. I didn't talk about the first day on which the cabinet joined, but six months after that, at the earliest. Suppose after a year it comes to such a large law, which fully meets the condition of those many signatures. Does Mr Van Raak now say that this kind of big legislation, even though it has to wait another 2.5 years after a year, before a referendum can be held? Should the agreement be that all proposals for a referendum should always be combined with the Lower House elections? Does Mr Van Raak say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u137	Yeah, I'd like that. I, Ronald van Haak van de SP, would think that was a good idea. But that is, of course, also a matter for the House of Representatives. It is therefore up to the House of Representatives to make the assessment: in this case it is not possible, but in that case it is possible. The Second Chamber is there itself and can therefore also give form to this plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u138	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u139	Finally. If this goes on, it's not up to the House of Representatives. It's an initiative from the people. The people take the initiative. If after that year the people say they want to hold a referendum, that will happen, whatever the House of Representatives or the House of Representatives thinks. That is the idea of an initiative from the people. This argument is therefore not valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u140	Mr Van Raak and then Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u141	No, but it would be nice to do so at the end and to give the people the opportunity to do so. That is the suggestion made by the Minister in his reply. I actually thought that was a very nice, practical solution. Something else is when a situation arises where it really can't. Suppose a referendum is held, there is a high turnout and a clear result, but the threshold is just not reached. Then a law does not automatically lapse. That is what the law says: a law does not automatically lapse if the threshold is not met. We, or you, after March 17th, are all politicians. You cannot put in the Constitution that people's representatives, members of the First and Second Chambers, should no longer make their own considerations. You can't put that in the Constitution. So there will always be a possibility that, for example, the SP says: the outcome threshold has not been reached, but we do not want to go through with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u142	Mr President, through you, in the direction of Mr Van der Linden, who implicitly asked me whether I would like to talk to my colleagues from the VVD on the other side during the suspension. Now I have been raised here with a nestor who constantly reminds me of the fact that we have a stand-alone position. I was a little disappointed that he was putting us across the bar of our colleagues across the street all day today. I think that we should simply come to a decision on the proposal before us on our own. I'm not calling at all on a break. But in my first-term input, my answer to this question was already there. I think it's a high threshold. I have qualified that positively, where others may have qualified it negatively, because it brought it closer to representative democracy. We had more fundamental objections, apart from all these amendments, but that does not give me any reason to oppose them. So that's not gonna get us across the line either. But I'm not gonna confuse the Lower House and the Upper House here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u143	I respect that. But if Mr Meijer sends me on the road with the message to lower the outcome threshold in the House of Representatives, then I am not okay with that if I am sure that outside the sword of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt falls into my neck. Then I'm not okay with doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u144	But I'm not sending you out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u145	My question is in fact a continuation of this. At the moment when it becomes a kind of cow business with the House of Representatives during the break of this First Chamber, we are very far away from the content. That can't be Mr Van Raak's intention, can it? Doesn't he just want to point out that he's just not gonna do it? That makes it much clearer for the debate rather than trying to see if we can settle anything here or there, so that there is another percentage on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u146	I'm a trial counselor. I got a law out of a drawer. I took a report off the shelf. I'm supervising this process, and I want to bring it to a successful conclusion. It can't be that one chamber sends me out knowing that the other chamber will change me. Then I'm in the chase patate or "who said that?" Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my It can't be. You ask me to carry out an impossible task. There will then have to be movement on one side or the other. If that movement isn't there, I can't go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u147	This actually makes it very clear. Mr Van Raak says that he will not go back to the other side if he does not get enough comfort here to use that word himself. Is that the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u148	If I'm confronted with the sword of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, I can't. In that case, it can't be, in another case maybe it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u149	Before: if only the sword had belonged to Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. Then he would have said, "It's not gonna knock my head off." But unfortunately it was in the hands of others. I have a brief reaction to Mr Meijer first. If I am addressed as a nestor, even though that is a title based nowhere, I would like to say that I do not say to this Chamber that it is measured by the House of Representatives. In the debates we have had on this subject, this Chamber asked this Minister whether he was entitled to do one or the other. Now the question is whether this Chamber can say to the other Chamber: do you want to amend an passed law? If you're gonna do that, it's reasonable to at least have an idea if that other Chamber is willing to do that. Then the initiator runs there and otherwise he doesn't. Anyway, that's his responsibility. The initiator says that the problem is made bigger than it is. I don't want to make it smaller than it is. The turnout threshold introduced by the House of Representatives in this law is a very high one and in my party's opinion it is far too high. At the same time, it is a threshold that is in it. If we get this law passed in first and second reading, it's gonna take a long time. If at some point there is an application for a referendum, could it be that we will first gain experience? We would then find that the idea that we always do it in elections does not turn out to be such a good idea or that it actually turns out to work very well. I think there's a little too much speculation about what might happen. In any case, I do not know the Netherlands as a country where referendums are held on the assembly line. We've had three in 150 years. So that's not so bad. What does the initiator think? Would he like to explain again why he says that the big theoretical problem seems to be a smaller problem in practical terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u150	Theoretically, there's a problem. I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Kox. We both don't want that outcome threshold. But the analysis of a number of members that makes referendums impossible is simply not true. Whether there will be a referendum has nothing to do with a result, but with a start, the number of signatures. How many signatures are required, this Chamber will decide at a later stage. That's where you're at. Then you can determine how many signatures these are, what the threshold will be to hold such a referendum. Then at the moment there is the threshold of outcome that is very high, because it is related to the results of the Lower House elections. I therefore agree with all the Members who say that Parliamentary elections are not the same as a referendum and that you should not compare those two appearances. Not on behalf of the House of Representatives, but on my own behalf I agree. This is very practical by the Minister's equally simple and brilliant proposal to hold these referendums at the same time as Parliamentary elections. If you do, there are two advantages. You always have that turnout, because there are also Lower House elections. You'll always have that turnout from the House of Representatives. There's no voice in that. Another great advantage, which also makes it so beautiful, is that because of that many people are in that booth and many people can give their opinion. My experience with referenda is that the more people participate, the more careful and qualitative the decision and the debate are. I think that's a win too. In that sense, we can also make something very nice out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u151	Thank you. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u152	The Remkes Committee has, of course, advised the binding corrective referendum because of the Ostrogorski paradox, the paradox that party frameworks often vote and think very differently than the voters. This paradox was the reason for me to go into politics and do something about it. So that can also be done if you really want to. It must be feasible. I have the following question to ask Mr Van Raak. In footnote 105 on page 152 of the Remkes Committee's report, a detailed argument is given as to why the advice is given to use 33% of voters as the threshold of outcome. It says: "The discussion in the committee on the exact level of the outcome threshold was conducted in response to different preferences. For example, a number of Members preferred to stay closer to the standard applied in the neighbouring countries, while a number of other Members advocated a higher threshold. The final percentage has become the common outcome of that conversation." I believe that Mr Koole, among others, was on the Remkes Committee. So this is actually already a compromise. According to the Remkes Committee, the highest possible threshold is considered to be half of the House's turnout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u153	So what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u154	Why is this compromise not accepted, whereby the committee has reached a realistic threshold from different political points of view? In an unguarded moment, did you agree too quickly in the hope that you could get it through, under the guise of: rather half an egg than an empty cap? What was your thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u155	Your analysis is correct: this was a compromise. In the House of Representatives I said that I, as Ronald van Raak of the SP, because that is how I stand in the House of Representatives it would be okay if this was the beginning, the starting point, of the discussion. The end point is that here, in this First Chamber, the threshold is finally set. At the same time, we have received the advice of the Council of State. It had a different threshold. Then suddenly there are two thresholds on the table. A majority of the House of Representatives has chosen that other threshold. That was a choice of the House of Representatives. I defend that choice because I am defending the law of the House of Representatives. In my contribution, I have perhaps already indicated here and there that I think it is a very high threshold. I think he's way too high. But I do not agree with the conclusion of a number of Members of your Chamber that this has made the referendum impossible and that there are no referendums. These are possible, but they do set conditions for the way in which they are to organise. For example, when we organise referendums together with elections, the problem is solved. Then you have reached that threshold by yourself and as an extra positive point you have that there are a lot of people in that voting booth, who then all give their opinion on that referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u156	I agree with Mr Van Raak. In my first term, I said that we are talking about the result. The way in which, we find secondary. We could, for example, resolve this by getting the Minister's promise that the referenda will always... But then you have the problem that you have only once in so many years of Lower House elections. Do you want to save everything and then wait three years for the next election? If a subject is alive now, it is practically not feasible. How does Mr Van Raak see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u157	To begin with: in the early days of a cabinet, there are usually no such great laws passed by the Second and First Chambers. It'll take a while. When it comes to big things, it usually takes a long time. Then you have the situation that in the near future 400 000, 500 000, 600 000 are going to be called 'the threshold' or at least a lot of people are going to sign it, because they want to have a referendum on something. So that is a controversial proposal. Then it's not weird. If there is no reason to do it acutely and immediately, it will in many cases not be, because it is a new policy, there is no reason not to wait. I can't speak on behalf of the Minister. I certainly cannot promise on behalf of the Minister that this is always the case. It can't be. I can say that this is a trade-off that will have to be made by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u158	Mr Otten, a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u159	Two referendum referendums were held under the Temporary referendum Act, as I explained to Mr Schalk. One referendum on the European Constitution was held. Two thirds of the referendums were therefore on issues that have been addressed by the EU. In this sense, the Dutch cabinet formation does not have much to do with that. Of course, this is not arranged as a Dutch conversation. There are also outside influences and all kinds of things can happen. So that's not a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u160	Of course, we had that debate in a previous interruption. I regret that these treaties have been taken out. That does not mean, however, that we cannot hold referendums on treaties in the future. That's just not possible with this law. This will require a separate law and these referenda will be advisory. Those referenda could be there, just not with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u161	I'm just gonna take a look at what's going on. The first hour of your term has actually been built up on the basis of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u162	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u163	That's great. You may also want to have some speaking time yourself proactively. Is that right? If so, is it then an idea that we first Mr Van Raak...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u164	I'd like to answer some questions. When this matter is concluded, I can do it quite quickly. I would, of course, run the risk of some Members saying: you have not answered my question and sister and so on. Then we may have a slightly longer second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u165	That only happens if you haven't answered any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u166	Everything, everything, everything can't answer comprehensively in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u167	No. Minister, do you have any idea how much time you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u168	About 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u169	I thought you'd like to suspend at 5:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u170	If that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u171	If that's possible, the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u172	That's why I'm looking at the time. Is it true that you would like to make some meters with the answer? Then we will stop the interruptions for a moment, because we have only had interruptions for an hour now. Or should we continue on the basis of the interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u173	It's possible. That is your order, but I would like Members to be able to ask their questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u174	Fine. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u175	I am pleased with that, because I am really confused by Mr Van Raak. I don't think we should have that. It doesn't make anyone any better. The first point is that he is now suggesting this brilliant solution to link it to elections. Yes, that does something with the turnout and with that the outcome threshold. That's the idea. The idea that it is only about big laws is, of course, very much the question. Mr Van der Ham mentioned the corrective tap. I don't think that's something a cabinet has been meeting for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u176	Mr. Van der Ham? It was the same first name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u177	I meant Mr Dittrich. All those Boris, Chairman. Let's not bring up Boris Pasternak. So it's not always about very big laws. It's about laws that affect people. This does not necessarily coincide with a very large cabinet proposal. That is the first point I think is a weakness. On the second point, Mr Van Raak really confuses me. He's here defending the Chamber. I have read the explanatory statement to the amendment that we are talking about all the time. Mr Van Raak says that the advantage of combining it with elections is that you automatically have that majority, because then those elections count. However, the explanatory statement says something quite different: if a binding corrective referendum takes place at the same time as elections at that level, then the final elections prior to the referendum will be considered for the determination of the threshold. In other words, Mr. Van Raak, what about your explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u178	In my view, this corrective tap is exactly an example of a proposal that can wait a while and that does not necessarily need to be introduced immediately. The national interest won't call for it. It's true it's not one-on-one. But if a referendum is held during elections, there is a very, very, very good chance that that threshold will be met. In any case, the chances are extremely much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u179	But that is not what Mr Van Raak just said. I think he just said, "You made it automatically, because you have that election at the time." I understand that is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u180	The turnouts at Lower House elections are fluctuating. That's true, but the difference between Lower House elections and, I'll just say, watership elections is really big. At Lower Parliament elections you can assume within a margin that it is always high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u181	I'm going into the same point. I do not want the explanatory statement, but I would like to take the legal text itself to ask Mr Van Raak if I have understood him correctly. Article 89d (1) states: "If, in the referendum, a majority votes against the bill and that majority is at least equal to a majority of the votes cast in the most recent elections of the members of the House of Representatives."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u183	So my question is: those most recent elections can also be the elections with which the referendum is taking place simultaneously? If you say yes to that, I think you are right that there are quite a few referendums that can reach a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u184	I also think that this is the case, but it was a suggestion from the Minister, so I hope she can give us some clarification here. It matters to me that if you tie it to Lower House elections, you always have a high turnout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u185	The documents do say that we are looking at the previous, so the last, Lower Parliamentary elections and there we have that measuring bar. Here it is said: no, those elections can be simultaneous. I'll ask the Minister, too. If so, I think the problem is many times smaller than we all think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u186	Since this was a suggestion from the Minister, I think it is a good idea for the Minister to give a ruling on this. I'll take a look at her. She likes to be willing to do that, I just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u187	I would like to await the Minister's answer to this question, but my point was to Mr Van Raak. He said at one point: this proposal does indeed allow referenda, while a number of Members in this Chamber say that it is not possible. It is not so much said here that no referendum can be held. After all, if you've taken those first and second hurdles, so you've collected signatures, put them on the town hall and then 600,000 more... That's already there. The point is that, according to the experts I mention, that threshold is a recipe for disappointment. The referendum will be held, but you already know that it will never lead to a law being stopped. That's the recipe for disappointment. If you know that in advance, you shouldn't want to, so you should change that outcome threshold. It is therefore not a question of saying: no referenda can be held. So you have three, four, five disappointments, and then we're going to say that maybe it wasn't good, when you could already foresee it. Since we can foresee it now, we must change it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u188	Not if you're gonna have it at the same time as the Lower House elections. Then the problem is practically solved. I also think that after a number of attempts we can achieve an equilibrium. I think it's very complicated to set the ideal outcome threshold now. That is why I said: let us take that of the state committee as a starting point for discussion. But also that's... You don't know. You will have to build an experience, a culture, a tradition to see what the right outcome threshold is that works for both the turnout and the acceptance of the outcome by political parties. You're gonna have to experiment with that. The question before us now is whether we are going to do that. Is that what we're gonna do? Then Mr Koole says: well, but then there will be no referendum. Or: that's a pacifier. No, if you can practically solve that, you can start holding referendums. So we can see how this will work out in practice and whether or not the outcome threshold can be reduced. That is for the future, but I think this is a good practical solution. I hope that Mr Koole will continue to think about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u189	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u190	We will soon hear the Minister about this parallel with the Dutch Parliamentary Elections. I do not believe that this can apply to all laws, but it should be possible, in principle, for all laws to hold a referendum, except for those on the list of exceptions. My point is: if you want to hold that referendum, is it true that people in the country should not be left with a recipe for disappointment? You already know that the odds are about nil that they will ever be able to stop a law. Does Mr Van Raak really want to take care of this recipe for disappointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u191	That is what Mr Koole has been saying for the third time. If you hold such a referendum along with the Lower House elections, you don't have that problem. I can't make a commitment on behalf of the Minister anyway, but I can't imagine the Minister going to say that it can always be done together with Lower House elections. You'll always have to keep the possibility of exceptions. Then it is not up to the minister in her uppity to determine that, but the House of Representatives will also have a say in that. Suppose a referendum is held and there is a high turnout and a clear outcome, but the outcome threshold is just not reached. It's possible. Then such a law does not automatically lapse. Ready. Then it won't expire. What can happen, what I think is happening, especially at such a high threshold, is that within groups, within political parties, there will be a discussion of: yes, but is this what we want? Then that's also up to the House of Representatives. Then it is also up to the Lower House, and to the Senate, to this Chamber, to determine what you do with that outcome. If a threshold is lower, the scope for that consideration is lower. When a threshold is higher, that demand will start to play with more politicians. But it always will, at every threshold. It cannot be constitutionally prohibited that people's representatives, that politicians, should review the outcome of a referendum, whatever the outcome. That has to do with the politicians, with the parties, with the subjects. An accuracy is suggested with that outcome threshold. To anyone here who thinks that an outcome threshold will mean the end of the discussion, I say: that is not true. That's not true. We cannot put this discussion, the responsibility of politicians, of representatives of the people, into a threshold of outcome. That will never happen in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u192	Thank you. I have the feeling that we are now beginning to repeat ourselves a little bit. We will have another term from the Minister, another term from the Chamber, and then the terms of Mr Van Raak and the Minister. Maybe the subject will come back to that as well. That's what I'm guessing. I'll give Mr. Otten one last chance to ask one more question. Then I suggest we give Mr. Van Raak some time to keep his own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u193	I should like to support Mr Koole, also as an expert in the field of experience, in carrying out a referendum campaign. That soon became a campaign for the rise. There were just active forces from politics that said, "Don't vote, they won't make it to the threshold." Don't go! Don't go! That's what the newspapers called for. Mr Koole is quite right about this; I think he was also in the referendum committee of that first referendum when he read a recipe for disappointment, which means that people are going to drop out. And so many people have already left politics. You sell it as a trial counselor with verve, but it just doesn't work in practice, I can assure you. People are pulling out. How are you going to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u194	I also have experience with referenda, with extraordinary pleasure. Mr Otten is, of course, quite right. The turnout has become the subject of discussion. It has become the subject of strategy. I think that, like Mr Otten, is actually wrong. But if you're going to hold a referendum like this at the same time as the Dutch Parliamentary Elections, that problem will be solved as well. The nice thing is that we have a theoretical problem here that we are looking for a practical solution to. That practical solution has a number of other positive things. One of those positive things is that that thunder of "people, please don't vote" is over, because people go to the polling booth before the Lower House elections and then they just vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u195	We have heard this argument a number of times. Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u196	I do not think that the law states that the referendum is to be held at the same time as the Lower House elections. You should have put that in there! Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u197	No, it's not in the law. The law contains an outcome threshold, which Mr Otten and I both believe is high. We both have concerns about whether it's too high. We both want to experiment. If you take these three things together: we think it is a high threshold, we want to experiment and we want that referendum, then we can see if there is a practical solution. I think it is a practical solution, but perhaps there are more to hold these referendums as much as possible at the same time as Parliamentary elections. Then you just solve the problem of the turnout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u198	I understand the Minister will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u199	And then Mr Otten is also served, because he is right to say that occasional calls for non-voting are therefore not possible. Yeah, you can do it, but people are still in that booth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u200	This is what the Minister will come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u201	The Minister will come back to this in great detail. I have a dilemma. I would like to be very brief, but I would also like to answer as many of the Members' questions as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u202	I'd rather suspend at 6:00 for what's called dinner break here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u203	I'm just gonna skip Mr. Kox. I think I have already answered most of Mrs Baay-Timmerman's questions in the discussion we had. When it comes to disinformation, the Minister knows a lot more about it than I do. I mean fighting that. I hope the Minister can say a little more about that. I say to Mr Otten: three times is the charm. Mr Nicolaï, like many people, talked about this threshold. In this respect, we have had a long discussion and sought a practical solution. I do not think that the President will allow me to change these arguments again. Mr Van Hattem said: watch out for Echternach's procession. I liked that. That's what I'm afraid of, if I'm just sent across the street without perspective. He also quite rightly said that 70% of the people are in favour. It is this referendum or not a referendum. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u204	Mr Nicolaï has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u205	Maybe the Minister will go into it, but where does the proposal say who decides when the referendum will be held?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u206	The Minister will discuss this in detail. Otherwise, I'm gonna be saying things that may be wrong, and we shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u207	I wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u208	It's the Minister's proposal, so I'm gonna have to be a trial counselor here, too, and pass it on to her. Mr Verkerk had a wonderful input. I would like to present him with a quote from a booklet I made: Thinking on the dikes, about the Netherlands of the philosophers. "Where in the world is a people more difficult to cope with by big words and ideologies than in the Netherlands?" A beautiful quote by Helmut Plessner. After the takeover of power by the Nazis in Germany, he fled to Groningen. He found us a strange country, where no philosophies were made, where there were no outspoken thoughts. After 15 years in our country, he found our polder thinking so fantastic. You can also see that in history, whether it is modern devotion in the late Middle Ages, or Newtonian philosophy in the eighteenth century, or the philosophy of sanity, a truly Dutch invention, in the nineteenth century. You can see that many ideas from outside are taken over in our country... radical ideas, strong ideas, revolutionary ideas... but that it always lands in a polder, always muffled in the clay of our polder. You can see that at Domela Nieuwenhuis, for example, who wants to organize the revolution, but above all wants to change practical things for workers and write letters to Karl Marx asking if he still has any clues for the practical struggle. Then he gets a reaction from Karl Marx about the upcoming revolution and then Domela Nieuwenhuis says that he has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u209	Isn't it getting a little broad now, Mr. Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u210	What I want to say is that we have a polder policy. We are a country of minorities. That's true, and it always will be. It is not the case that, with this referendum, the people will soon be able to take an initiative to limit the rights of minorities. That's not the point. What this is, is that if a law is passed by the Second and First Chambers, the population has the opportunity to take it off the table. In fact, if a law were to be introduced that specifically threatens minority rights, the people would be able to take it off the table. That is the only thing this referendum can do. This referendum will never, ever, be able to take the initiative from the people to limit minorities. And that's the nice thing about this referendum: it's an ex post check.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u211	I agree with many of the things Mr Van Raak says. My question is: imagine now that the cabinet will come up with a law that protects minorities, and that a referendum will be held that will be coordinated. So I'm not talking about that situation where you say that the cabinet is coming up with a bill threatening minorities and the people are tuning it. Well, then I think it's beautiful. But it could happen the other way around. Can you reflect on this? Just reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u212	These rights of minorities are secured by the Constitution and by the Second and First Chambers - and perhaps later a constitutional court, who knows. If a compromise establishing minority rights is reached, this compromise will ultimately have to be supported by the people. A compromise that cannot be accepted in such a way that all those people sign up and half plus one of the people who do not want to vote in elections is not a real protection of minorities if such a proposal does not have the support of the population. I think it is very important in our polder that we respect each other's rights. This will therefore require support from the population as well. And I also think that's because in the Netherlands everyone is a minority. That's what I like about this country, and so nice of this policy. If a compromise is reached, which is always the case, because for that we are a polder country, then that compromise, in order to be effective, must also have support. In that sense, such a referendum can be an ultimatum remedium and also a test of whether such a compromise really will protect such a minority, because such a compromise has support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u213	I understand your line of thinking, but there is something in this Chamber that, however fiercely we have a debate, we always say: we want to have room for those minorities. And then there may be a sharper or different debate here than in society. And here's the next thing. I am also thinking of a debate I had with the Minister in writing on the interpretation of Article 1: what happens if a non-discrimination ground is made explicit? Then there is also a mandate for the government to come up with legislation to protect those minority groups. And I agree with you that it would be a concern if the population agreed, but you cannot tell me that if a government does this very carefully with the parliaments, it will never happen that society will coordinate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u214	In that future, I can't see. I can see that, apart from Belgium and Bosnia, every country in Europe has referendums. And those referenda are all different, too. Why is that? Because every country is different, every political culture is different. This referendum, I think, fits very well, and that is also the view of the State Commission and the Council of State. This form of referendum, not another one, but this form of referendum, fits very well with our representative democracy, as a final piece of that representative democracy. But I do not understand that referendums, in any country in Europe, lead to objective rights of minorities being undermined because of the referendum. And I think that this means of referendum is the least of it. I therefore have no indication that this has ever been the case in Europe. Thank you very much. I have to laugh at Mr Dittrich's "die in beauty."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u215	Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u216	He also said a little pragmatism. Oh, Mr. Nicolaï. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u217	I have a question for Mr Van Raak. What Mr Verkerk puts forward is not easy to resolve by saying in 89b that proposals for a law on the protection of minority rights cannot be the subject of a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u218	Yes, but then we should amend that. I can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u219	I mean, here's the thing about my question. The question by Mr Verkerk and the Christian Union is aimed at the referendum as an instrument, but my question is whether that is a proper vision. Shouldn't you say we should watch out for the protection of minorities? But that doesn't mean we can't use the instrument. This means that we can deal with this in the design of the provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u220	Yes. There are many differences in this country: from socialists to liberals and everything in between; there is a lot of things. But I think respect for and recognition of minorities are really deep in our democratic blood. I think that has been the case for a very long time with an overwhelming majority in this country. Because we're a country of minorities. So there's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u221	It sounds a little easy to me, but we're just here in the First Chamber thinking about measures against racism. Now there's gonna be a law that's focused on that. I understand Mr Verkerk's question as follows. He says: it may just be that if that is subject to a referendum, that law will then be set aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u222	Then a discussion will take place first. I find it very interesting how this discussion is going to run. I don't think that's gonna happen. I think that's too theoretical. I think that almost every Dutchman is against racism. But let's say that's true. Suppose such a provision is adopted, and it turns out that more than half of everyone who participates in such a referendum is against it. Suppose it turns out there is absolutely no carrier. With that high threshold! So there are so many people who don't want to. Then we really have another problem. Then there is no point in such a provision. If such a provision were to be rejected in a referendum, which I do not think at all; but there is a theoretical possibility that that would happen, then we also live in a society in which such a provision would be pointless. Then there's just something else going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u223	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u224	I'm moving on. I would also like to thank Mr Dittrich for his call for pragmatism. I have already said a lot in the direction of Mr Koole. Mr Van Schaik referred to Mr Holdijk. Yeah, I've had a lot of debates with that. Extremely interesting! It was someone who was far away from me, ideologically and perhaps personally. But it was someone from whom I learned a lot and who has been an example in a strange way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u225	You meant Mr Schalk, not Mr Van Schaik. Mr Schalk referred to Mr Holdijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u226	I meant Mr Holdijk. Oh, yeah, I mentioned the wrong name. I did mean Mr Schalk. But I was concerned about Mr Holdijk. I thank Mr Meijer. I find the history of the referendum at the VVD really interesting. I've been in the Lower House for 15 years. So I've been through a lot of Home Affairs spokesmen at the VVD. They're kind of changing over there. I have experienced strong opponents, I have experienced strong supporters and everything in between. And what I like about the VVD is this. There are VVD'ers very much for it, there are VVD'ers really very much against it and there are just a lot of VVD'ers who doubt it. I think that's very good, too. Mr Meijer referred to the debate on the electoral programme, which contained a somewhat strange proposal that was taken out again. But the discussion is taking place within the VVD at the moment. I like that. The discussion within the VVD is currently taking place. That also means that, when we are in second reading, Mr Meijer is now very pertinent, I understand that the discussion in the VVD continues. I'm curious about the outcome. That discussion has not yet been concluded, and that is what I mean in the most positive way. At the CDA, the content of this discussion is less. We've been talking about the local referenda. I believe that this has been completed, but otherwise Mr Doornhof will have to come back to that in the second term. Mr Frentrop also mentioned that threshold. I hope I have been able to offer him a little comfort through that practical solution. I'll get that in a minute. The same applies to Mr Van der Linden. He talked about the necessity of great maintenance and about the catch 22 that I'm being sent across the street, but there's nothing light about it and I can't knock anywhere. Then Mr Raven of OSF. I think it is very handsome of you that you were able to make an immediate contribution to such a complex subject of state law. Then hopefully I kept my promise to at least keep it as short as possible. If I'm still short-handed, I'll hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u227	It is good that Mr Van Raak has learned a great deal from Mr Holdijk, just not what I have put forward, namely that we must rule for the people and not by the people, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. I had asked a few questions to which I have not yet had an answer, but those are also a little questions of sensitivity and I will leave them. On the substance, I asked a question about Article 89c, which states that ratification of a proposal for a law can only take place after a referendum has been held on the proposal or after it has been established that no referendum will be held on it. That's gonna stop the trial. I would even add that question to what we have heard from Mr Van Raak today, namely that perhaps it is best to link it to the elections, because that means that Article 89e will be dealt with very often, namely that a legislative proposal cannot be delayed and that it will be ratified. Then perhaps a referendum will follow a long time later and that law will have to be repealed again. Isn't that an inner contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u228	The provision to allow it to enter directly into force shall apply to exceptional cases. That will therefore be exceptional and certainly not standard. Then it is and it may take longer. That's the choice, but that's exceptional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u229	Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u230	A very concrete example: Mr Van Raak says that it usually takes a very long time before there is a law. Let's just say that the cabinet would go on again, then you could just have the situation that things are moving faster and that after a year and a half you have a law. Then you can just have a three-year period where we're waiting for that bill to come into effect, because there might be a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u231	Yes, but then there are 400,000, 500,000, 600,000 or I know a lot how many signatures that have yet to be established, also picked up by your Chamber and many people have said: whoa, wait a minute, pause. A lot of people have then pressed the pause button because they want to make their voices heard and make a choice. That pause button is then pressed by the population, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u232	I suggest that we keep this for the second term, if necessary. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I repeat the agreement that I will at least suspend at 6 p.m. for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u233	The schedule says 6:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u234	That is correct and, at the request of one of the participants, it was 6 p.m., until 7 p.m. by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I assume that you do not expect me to answer everything before 6 p.m., because I will not be able to do so. I can tell you that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u236	No, but I'll suspend at 6:00 anyway. That is also at your request, so I apologize in advance. You may have some left after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u237	I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u238	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u239	I should like to congratulate Mr Raven most warmly on his maiden speech and his entry into this chambre de réflection. I'm here today as an advisor to Parliament. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van Raak in this Chamber. I have done so in the House of Representatives and many have already done so for me. Taking an initiative for legislation is, of course, worth complimenting, especially for ground legislation, even if the person concerned only sees himself as a counsellor. The report of the Remkes State Commission is here on the table. Many have quoted it and it is actually the basis of what is now ahead. The State Committee calls for the introduction of a remedially binding legislative referendum. In its first position, the cabinet did not give a substantive opinion on the concrete recommendations on this issue. We then chose to say that we involve the recommendations of the State Committee in the formulation of the position on the present Constitutional proposal. I have made a number of comments in the House of Representatives. I think it would be good for the history to repeat it now. First of all, I have noted that the cabinet believes that the binding referendum is a figure that is not easily applicable to representative democracy, which has been in place for a century and a half. I have also said that there are very different views. The latter turns out to be today as well. I know that the benefits mentioned by Mr Van Raak today are warmly endorsed by some in this Chamber. There is, of course, another aspect, namely that it is an important and fundamental change in our state system and that it is essential that you weigh the advantages and disadvantages well, if you wish to do so. That is why the cabinet also wanted to name the objections to the proposal, for example that compromises are inevitably made in a representative democracy, which sometimes do not correspond to the views of the majority of the population. That dilemma has been mentioned here. It is also a fact that a referendum can lead to disappointment, for example in the case of a relatively large minority who will think after a referendum that his or her interests have not been taken into account or not taken into account. This can make social contradictions stronger. There's another side of it, too. I'm about to go into that. It is also true that we do not always know exactly what voters' motives are for rejecting a legislative proposal, let alone what alternative they would prefer. All this can affect the power of government. In short, considering everything, the cabinet has chosen not to bring a constitutional proposal into procedure itself. If, in addition to the House of Representatives, your Chamber also considers that it is desirable to take the first step, to agree to this proposal and thus take the step towards the introduction of the corrective binding legislative referendum, the Cabinet will not, however, stand in the way of this proposal. In other words, the cabinet leaves the judgment to the Chambers. I insisted in the House of Representatives that there should be some substantive changes. These are changes that have been called for in the opinions of the State Commission and the Council of State. Some of the suggestions have been taken over by the House of Representatives. It has adopted a number of amendments. I shall come back to that in a moment as a result of the questions. I would also like to say something about the financial consequences. Well, I guess that's something you've noticed. I did the same thing in the Lower House. If this continues, there will of course be structural costs. We do not know exactly how much is involved, because that depends on the number of referendums that are held. No proposals for coverage have been made for the time being from the initiator. That will have to happen in due course. Maybe I can make one procedural point at the end of my introduction. It is also addressed to Mr Van Raak as initiator. If this House adopts this proposal and therefore the first reading of the Constitutional proposal is completed before the forthcoming elections of the House of Representatives, the second reading will take place in the next parliamentary term of the House of Representatives. At least that's the point. Mr Van Raak knows, like no other, how important it is that the legislative proposal for second reading is brought before the House in good time. He has often questioned and pointed this out to me. We've taken care of that well by now, I think. It is customary in a constitutional proposal to which the House of Representatives has taken the initiative to do so by a member of the House of Representatives. In fact, I assume that he will take care of that before the elections. Then the Advisory Department of the Council of State has the time to advise before the new Second Chamber meets for the first time. I call this explicit because it is part of the process. Once again, that is, of course, subject to the reservation of what this Chamber decides. I thought it appropriate to say it here, so that there is no misunderstanding and there will be no delay at a second reading, should that be the case. Mr. Chairman. Then the questions. I divided it into five parts, with some general points first. They're not insignificant. Then there are the various amendments that have been mentioned, on the threshold of outcome, on the treaties and on the local authorities. On a number of practical questions, I would also like to talk about the combination with the elections. There was just a lot of talk about that in an interruption. Then I come to questions about the process on this proposal, and finally to the relationship with other initiatives that see democratic renewal. First of all, the more general part. I shall start with Mr Verkerk's question. Others joined, such as Dittrich and Koole. The question was whether having the possibility of a corrective referendum and holding it could lead to an increase in the contrasts in society, and thus implicitly, and I also think that it would be undesirable to reduce confidence in the government and the institutions of the government. In itself, I do not think that you have to be afraid of that, because the Constitutional proposal provides a balanced arrangement for the legislative referendum. It is clear that this is actually an emergency brake, and thus an addition to the representative system and not a replacement. Moreover, we are there ourselves; not we in person, but we in our role. It is always up to the parliament and the cabinet to relate to signals from society. The same applies to other layers and to our co-government. Thus, even in cases where a referendum does not lead to the expiry of the law on which the referendum was based, social sentiments are expressed. I don't think this risk should be there if you do that well and carefully with each other. Again, this comes on top of what's there and is no substitute for what's there. Mr Verkerk also asked about the protection of the minority or minorities. He asked Mr Van Raak to do so just now in the event of interruption. Our country is full of minorities, as Mr Van Raak said. This is essential in a democratic rule of law such as ours. I actually agree with what the initiator said: the most important safeguards we know about minorities and fundamental rights of all are enshrined in our Constitution. Changing the Constitution is a difficult and time-consuming procedure. That's not for nothing. There is therefore already a guarantee in the Constitution itself, because of the way in which the Constitution can be amended. Amendments to the Constitution are also excluded in the present draft Constitution. However, I do not think that Mr Verkerk pointed that out. I think he was talking about ordinary new legislation coming on top of existing legislation. With the proposal now before us, it is not very easy to reverse that legislation either. So there's a guarantee in that too. In fact, I cannot imagine what Mr Verkerk is describing unless the current situation is extremely detrimental to the minority, because you fall back on that when certain legislation would not go ahead. Mr Verkerk also asked whether it would not be possible for politicians, at the moment when this instrument exists, to listen even more to the voice of the people, assuming that there is something wrong with that. I don't think that's true. A valid result of a binding referendum results in a legislative proposal that has been accepted by both Chambers automatically lapses. But that does not relieve the legislator of the two Chambers to think about it: how to proceed? Perhaps this will lead to a new legislative proposal, taking into account the wishes of the electorate. I assume that we, as legislators, are always trying to do that. So you can always make a trade-off. Mr Van Hattem asked whether it might be possible for cabinet members to try to avoid referenda by settling more cases in general governance measures. This proposal only refers to changes in the law, so not to AMvBs, but we have a very clear set of rules in the Netherlands. We have the primacy of the legislator. This means that the main issues in our laws and regulations are laid down in laws in a formal sense. Both chambers have a decisive role to play. The ability to delegate certain issues, i.e. bring them to a lower level of regulation, is actually limited. In other words, I think that what Mr Van Hattem refers to is hardly possible and that the Chambers themselves are there, because in order to be able to delegate, there must be a basis in the law. That's the only way it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u240	I do see that problem, because you can, of course, get the situation that the cabinet chooses to create more coat-and-dress legislation, which includes a lot of delegation bases, precisely in order to avoid referenda being held on matters that would normally be governed by laws and then delegated via AMvBs. How does the Minister assess that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u241	Actually, in line with what I just argued. Mr Van Hattem now outlines a theoretical possibility. It should then be agreed in both chambers. Moreover, it seems to me, even in the tradition we have, in which we say that the main issues are laid down in formal laws, that it is also extremely complex for matters which we have always referred to as key issues, to be regarded as a secondary issue for this reason, at least as something which could also be laid down in lower rules and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u242	Further on, the Minister said that lower regulation cannot be subjected to a referendum and that the main principles of course should be contained in a formal law. That's exactly how it's agreed. That is even in the rules of law. But, of course, practice is an enormous increase in the trend towards a withdrawal of the legislator. If we look at the Environment Act alone: about 130 pages of law and 3,000 pages of AMvB's... you know about the ratio. Does the Minister now say that it is a bit side by side with the referendum that if the referendum continues, we should therefore strive for much less delegation of legislation than we do now, so that we should put much more real principles into the formal law? So no more open standards and no more empty standards, but really a general pursuit of basically loaded formal laws, so that if the voter could agree on them, then he can give his opinion on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u243	In itself, that is a good and interesting question, but my point would be that the way we do it now is therefore sufficient to take the main points of the formal law as a starting point. That is, of course, very different by law. Mr Koole happens to mention a very large law, the Environment Act. It is, of course, very extensive in terms of the subject matter. There is, therefore, a great deal at other levels of regulation, because it requires a lot of work to be done. I believe that the principle of the substance of the law and the application of this constitutional proposal can work very well in practice. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question before I reach the outcome threshold. Mr Schalk had a question about the turnout threshold. Could a turnout threshold help to offset the stagnant effect of referenda? He pointed out the delay in the legislative process. In my view, the choice of the entry or exit threshold has no effect on the delay in the legislative process. The thresholds are in force at the time when it has already been decided to hold a referendum, not in the preliminary phase. Perhaps I have misunderstood Mr Schalk, but that is how I look at him. Then there are the amendments. I shall therefore come straight to the point of the outcome threshold. Much of the discussion was about this. Of course, the cabinet has also taken note of the position papers requested by this Chamber and of the discussion that has taken place on this subject. It was said a moment ago, as if the cabinet had fully supported the opinion of the most serious outcome threshold. No. During the examination in the Lower House, I advised on behalf of the Cabinet to set a threshold of outcome within a certain bandwidth, namely somewhere between the threshold proposed by the State Committee, at the bottom of the bandwidth, and that of the Council of State, at the top of the bandwidth as I outlined it. I repeat: the role of the cabinet is an advisory role when it comes to legislative proposals. So it has been the choice of the House of Representatives to sit in that bandwidth at the top. This indeed means that the outcome threshold is high, also in comparison with referendums in other countries. I agree with what appears in the position papers, namely that it will not be easy for a valid referendum result to achieve that outcome threshold, because that calls for a relatively high turnout. And indeed, the combination with an election for the House of Representatives makes that much easier. I will come back to that point in a moment. But there is a logic behind the reasoning. I try to think along with the House of Representatives which amended it, because it concerns the correction of a decision taken partly by the Parliamentary Assembly, the directly elected House of Representatives. It is, of course, difficult to predict exactly what will happen in practice. We also do not know exactly to what extent this threshold will keep the legislator sufficiently firm in the adoption of this referenceable legislation. In short, the cabinet has shown understanding for the wish of the House of Representatives in the House of Representatives. It was at the top of the bandwidth I advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u244	Mr. Ganzevoort just got up a little earlier. Sorry, Mr. Koole. I saw it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u245	I also asked the Minister if she would repeat that advice now that she has read these position papers and the analyses in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u246	Yes, in itself. I would repeat the advice to be in that band, so to have a serious threshold in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u247	There was no discussion as to whether there should be a serious threshold. For me, that's not quite the point. The Council of State has said something about it. The Minister says in the oral hearing in the Lower House that she agrees with the proposal of the Council of State. That's not quite the same as the bandwidth that was also mentioned. In the end, she says she agrees with the Council of State's proposal. Would she repeat that now that she knows that experts say that this is simply unrealistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u248	Once again, I repeat what Mr Van Raak said: it is always good to consult experts. But I do not think it was known at the time of treatment in the Lower House that this threshold, half of the turnout at the last elections, would be a relatively high threshold. In that sense, it is certainly useful information. Those who say it's on the high side are supported by the experts consulted. But I do not think that I or others, for example Members of the House of Representatives who are reading this now, are saying: but we did not know that when we discussed that amendment with each other. Once again, I referred to the Council of State, but I also referred to the State Commission and what it proposed for threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u249	Then I suggest we pick up the discussion in an hour where we are now. I'm gonna do what I've agreed, with an apology. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u250	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I would have stayed with the questions relating to the outcome threshold. Mr Koole asked whether it would not have been more logical to include the general standard in the Constitution and leave it entirely to the ordinary legislator. The Cabinet endorsed the opinion of the Section for Advice, namely that the system should be incorporated into the Constitution. We do not think that the importance of rapidly adjusting the threshold is a reason for doing this differently. We do not think that this crucial element of the referendum can be changed only after the process laid down in the Constitution has been completed. I have also mentioned another, more practical argument in the House of Representatives. If this were to be left to the ordinary legislator, there would be a risk that no agreement would be reached on the required legislative proposal. In that case, the constitutional provisions on the correct binding referendum would only really remain a dead letter. That wouldn't help anyone either. I referred to this in my written reply. We have also seen it happen in practice around consultative referendums in Belgium at the level of the regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u252	I believe that we have remained in favour of the suspension at the point where the Minister replied to what Mr Ganzevoort said, namely whether you should look at the proposal differently in the light of the scientific research that has been put forward. The Minister replied to that. Mr Van Raak has said that he is here as a trial counselor. I understand that he may say so, because he is also more of a defender of the proposal as such. The minister said, "I'm here as an advisor." That is why, in my second term, I asked how the Minister is now looking at the quality of the Constitution, also in the light of scientific research, if you include such rules, which are actually going to lead an unnecessary existence, in the Constitution. Shouldn't the minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u253	I just need to see if I understood the question correctly. See the question at the outcome threshold? Yeah, exactly. I've already said I'm okay with scientists advising on what's ahead. I also said that this in itself does not lead to a different assessment, because the whole discussion about the level of the threshold is actually a very old discussion. It has also been held before, including in previous discussions on, for example, the Temporary referendum law. Other state committees have also made suggestions for this before. So in itself, this is a recurring discussion, which has different views, depending on whether it is a political or a scientific discussion. But the fact is that you have to make a choice in a political sense. With regard to the inclusion of the threshold in the Constitution, the cabinet has followed the Council of State's opinion and said: it is wise to lay it down in the Constitution in this way. With regard to the level, I repeat my position, even after taking note of the position papers, that the bandwidth between the Remkes Committee and the Council of State had been agreed on the whole band as far as the cabinet was concerned, so also on the bottom of the band. But we can also agree with the choice of the Lower House for the top of the bandwidth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u254	I would like to ask the Minister very specifically how she qualifies the threshold. She said it won't be easy. But you can see, of course, that the scientists are much harder. They say: it will simply not happen that this threshold will be met. I would like to ask the Minister: a she agrees with that and b what would this mean for her appreciation of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u255	What does it mean? So I've shown some sympathy. I agree with the initiator when he says that it is a high threshold that can be explained. It also has to do with the fact that it is a correction to a legislator's wish. Finally, the legislator is again basing itself on the outcome of the last elections. So there is a logic in that, but it is indeed a high threshold, also compared to what we know from other countries. On the other hand, you can't put it all one-on-one back on referenda we've had. At that time there was an emerging threshold and not an outcome threshold in the same form, but indeed this threshold would probably not have been met. Those referenda were held, however, among other rules of the game. At the time when this would be adopted, even at second reading, and would soon be constitutional and applicable, with the corresponding implementing laws, it would be the first time that you hold a referendum under those conditions. I will come to the point about the combination with the elections. Then it is a question for the organisation and, secondly, for those involved in the subject of the referendum to ensure that the turnout is sufficiently high so that the outcome threshold can be reached. At least that applies to those who consider it important. But of course we have never been able to put that into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u256	Mr. Doornhof, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u257	Mr Koole has been responsible for initiating scientific research. We have all been able to take note of this. I understand Mr Van Raak. He's walking around there a little bit. From his position, I understand that. But you can't run away from those facts, can you? You should not run away from the two reports, I would ask Madam Secretary through the President. That's two things you achieve. First of all, you get a constitution that contains provisions that are never going to be used, and that detracts from the quality of that constitution. Point two is that you make civilians happy with a dead sparrow. This has also been made very clear by others here. The government can't be for that, can it? In her position as an advisor, should she make more comments on this bill than is currently the case? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u258	That was also your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u259	I'm afraid my answer remains the same. I'm an advisor to both chambers on this point. The cabinet has pointed out that it is important to consider that there is an outcome threshold of sufficient height. The knowledge we have about this, the opinion of the Council of State and of the State Commission, and also the previous discussions on this at earlier times in our parliamentary history over the past twenty or thirty years, have all played a role in this. Of course I think it's relevant that these position papers are there now. I have also admitted that it is on the high side, but I am not convinced that it is prohibitive. So it is difficult to predict how it will work in practice. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it must be possible and feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u260	The Minister says it has to be doable. This is about that outcome threshold again. She said earlier: we had the advice to stay within the range of the Council of State and the State Commission. I have two questions about this. The first question is, what exactly is this bandwidth? This was discussed in detail in the State Committee. I can tell you that was based on all kinds of scientific research. According to all the scientific insights, that 33.3% really is the top of the band, it wants to be a referendum that is feasible and not a dead sparrow and not a pacifier. In practice, the Council of State's proposal amounts to more than 40%. Would the Minister like to see the bandwidth that the scientists suggest? That is actually between 25% and 30%, with the highest limit than the 33.3% of the state committee. Is that the fire width the Minister's talking about? If not, why isn't that the bandwidth? It is based on science. The second question concerns the Council of State, which says somewhere that it is appropriate. The logic is not contested that you want to have a high threshold because it is an adaptation or supplement to representative democracy. That was also the reasoning of the state committee. Then she comes to that maximum threshold. This does not lead to an even higher threshold. Can the Minister explain why she is going along with the Council of State's opinion? Why does she think that's convincing? Why does she think that 40%, which is what it is all about in practice, is appropriate? What kind of behavioral arguments can the Minister give to go along with the Council of State in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u261	I would like to say again to Mr Koole that I have not so much gone along with the Council of State alone. I indicated, on behalf of the cabinet, that we saw that the State Commission was based on 33.3%, that the Advisory Section said 40% of the electoral population, and that the Lower House chose to set it at half the turnout of the last elections to the Lower House. That now corresponds to what the Council of State has said. That can of course be up and down, because that depends on the turnout. I also said that we already knew the outcome threshold as a phenomenon. There was also an outcome threshold under the Temporary referendum law. That was 30%. So that there is discussion about the exact height of that threshold is a fact. The bandwidth was based, again, on the State Commission on the one hand and the Council of State on the other, and everything in between. We have now come out at the top, but that is the choice and also the own consideration made by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u262	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u263	I would like to say, however, that the band used by the scientists, based on the studies they have done, is not between the upper limit applied by the State Commission and the 40% of the Council of State. That last percentage is not behaviorally founded. The scientists have said: 25 to 30, maximum 33,3. Why doesn't the Minister go along with that scientific-based bandwidth?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u264	Once again, the opinions of the scientists who consulted the Upper House came after the examination in the Lower House. But my point is that in itself scientific insights have, of course, played a role before, also for the Remkes Committee and for the Council of State. So that was known on its own. I said on behalf of the cabinet that I could find myself in those bandwidths, behind which, of course, there was a lot of hiding. Mr. Chairman. A number of other questions on other amendments. The amendment on the treaties. Mr. Kox asked about it. Mr Koole, too, I thought. The cabinet has called for the adoption of so-called mixed treaties to be exempted from referendability. These are the treaties dealing with matters which are partly within the exclusive competence of the European Union and partly within the competence of the Member States themselves. An amendment was tabled in the House of Representatives at the time of the examination and was adopted with a broader scope. This does not only refer to the mixed conventions, but excludes the adoption of any convention from reference. Although the cabinet had insisted on the mixed treaties, I did not object to that change, that wish of the House of Representatives. Then there are the co-governments. Mr Kox pointed that out. There was also some discussion about this in the event of interruption. Originally, the proposal applied at national, provincial and municipal level, but not to the waterboards and the Caribbean public bodies. The cabinet has pointed out this inconsistency. The House of Representatives has adopted an amendment to that effect. This amendment, which I also welcomed, means that the Constitutional proposal requires only the national level to have a binding corrective referendum and to allow co-governments to make such an arrangement at their level. You don't have to, but you can. That is an outcome that the cabinet can live with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u265	I'll come back to those treaties. The minister had said "the hybrid treaties, you shouldn't want to," but all the treaties are included in them. The government accepts that. Well, I knew that, because that's what I read. My first question was whether the Minister and the initiator can reflect, more politically-philosophically, what it means when transferring sovereignty to Europe, for example. If that is the subject of a treaty and one wants to hold a referendum on it, is it not obvious, then, in the event that sovereignty is transferred to Europe and voters are no longer able, through their parliament and government, to influence a particular policy area? I would ask the Minister to give a reflection on that and not just to describe what happened in the House of Representatives, because that is what I have read. I am asking more for a philosophical reflection: what is desirable here and what fits into thinking about democracy and sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u266	I understand that Mr Koole and others insist on political positions, reflections and reflections both on the initiative and on me. It's okay, and I'd be happy to give it to you. But I am here as an advisor on behalf of the cabinet and not necessarily to advocate the political cause of the cabinet. The cabinet has said about this proposal: we are fairly neutral in it, we are certainly not standing in the way of it. We had a number of points on the content, including the issue of the mixed treaties. This makes our role in this Constitutional initiative a little easier, even if it is adopted later. Then comes Mr Koole's question, because of course you can find a lot of it. You can say: why should it be about treaties at all? Why did the cabinet say: only those mixed treaties, and those other treaties could be? How then is it that the cabinet finally took part in the proposal of the House of Representatives, at least at the request of the House of Representatives, to have no objection to it? Wouldn't it be better if you came to a very political level if there were binding corrective referenda on these issues? I note that that is not what is now before us. It is not really very relevant whether I, as a minister, as a person or as a D66, think anything of it, because it is not part of the proposal that is before us, also because it was taken out completely by amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u267	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u268	It's a bit of a separate debate. The minister says I'm just a consultant. The initiator says I'm just a counselor. You want to talk about the content in this Chamber. I am really asking for a substantive view of the Minister, who is also responsible as Minister for the Interior, one would almost say first, for the functioning of the democratic rule of law. And he says: yes, that happened, we can talk about that, but I do not want to make a statement about that for the rest. My question was: does such an exception to treaties where sovereignty is transferred fit within the concept that we should all want and what the Minister of the Interior should guard what our democratic rule of law is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u269	Mr Koole may in any case ask me anything in my role as Minister of the Interior, and I would also like to answer that. But he can't blame me if I say that the political and substantive discussion takes place between the senators rather than with the cabinet, present here as an advisor. What I think is that what is before us here is a proposal for the introduction of a correct binding referendum, which looks at legislation and no longer deals with treaties. That was the case in the original proposal. You know what I said in the first place: I have called for certain mixed treaties to be excluded, because we have also seen in the past how complicated it is, of course, the example of Ukraine's referendum to deal with this. I still think that this is a good argument for saying that in these treaties it is extremely difficult and therefore not really advisable to let that be part of the proposal. Well, in the meantime, the House of Representatives has said that we prefer to exclude treaties at all. I can find anything of that in a philosophical sense, but that is now a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u270	I'm leaving the treaties for what they are so far. The Ostrogorski paradox has already been mentioned a great deal; the Remkes Committee has also talked about it. Politicians who all do things that a majority of the population doesn't want, whether you're talking about immigration, windmills, expensive EU recovery plans, you name it. There are a lot of examples to mention. In the scientific research of the University of Nijmegen it is about the preventive effect of the outcome threshold. So what is essential, and why I am also in favour of a realistic threshold of outcome, is that politicians should take into account in their considerations that they may and may lose a referendum on this issue. The scientists come to the conclusion, following Mr Koole, that at this high threshold of outcome, this preventive effect, so those checks-and-balances that are actually there for politicians not to get it all wrong, because otherwise they will get a referendum on their pants, is gone. The report by the Remkes Committee is not called 'Low thresholds, high dikes' for nothing. It can now be better called "High thresholds, low dikes," because the threshold is getting higher and higher. How does the Minister see that aspect of this preventive check-and-balance, that political consideration should be given to the possibility of losing a referendum? That's essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u271	I cannot escape the impression that Mr Otten is explaining the Ostrogorski paradox very widely here, but let me turn to his question. It is a bit the opposite of what Mr Verkerk just argued. He argues that a referendum is an unfavorable thing, because politicians then do more in front of the people's will, to say it in popular terms. This is the opposite of it, namely that the referendum has such a high threshold that it does not have to be so terribly concerned about it and can make legislation as it pleases. After all, the chances of it being fired in a referendum are extremely low. I believe that both theories are not true and very charged. The reality is that both the cabinet and parliament, i.e. the legislator, are trying to make legislation that can count on support; as broad as possible in both chambers and, of course, also public support. It may be that, for example, agreements come out of a government agreement whereby you can ask the question whether there is a majority in favour of it on balance in the population. Then the fact that there is this remedial binding referendum, albeit with a high threshold, is an incentive to take sufficient account of it. If, in the end, a referendum is to be held, then it is up to everyone involved to ensure that that threshold is met.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u272	We note here today that the outcome threshold is much higher than what the Remkes Committee had recommended. Only the Council of State apparently had a higher threshold in mind. I don't remember ever voting on the Council of State, but I did at the Lower House and the Upper House. I think the Minister is very good at summing up about this preventive action. I think that a lot of politicians have thought: well, do such a high threshold, then we won't have to take it into account and then we won't have to take it into account, unless the opposite would prove itself, but then you have to have a huge turnout. I've just looked at the average turnout in Lower House elections since 1971.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u273	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u274	It's 75% to 85%. The population has grown. Then you need half of 11 million votes, so 6 to 7 million votes, to achieve a result. That is not a preventive effect in political reality, I say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u275	Thank you. Then I'm gonna ask the Minister to move on, because I thought we had three more cubes to go. Mr Nicolaï has a short question and I would like to ask the interrupters to keep their powder dry and give the Minister a chance to take some steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u276	My question is in line with Mr Otten's question. I had also submitted this to the Minister in my first term. Maybe she can get into that right away. One of those expert reports, by Professor Hendriks, states: "This underlying function of the corrective legislative referendum as a proverbial stick behind the door requires a real chance of activation of the instrument. It does not work if it is very unlikely that one will ever be confronted with the stick in question." I would like to know what the Minister thinks of this opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u277	I think we just talked about that. The threshold is quite high, also in the State Commission with 33.3%, and in the Council of State with 40%, related to the outcome of the elections. On the other hand, however, this is an instrument on top of representative democracy, which introduces the possibility of a correction to something that the legislator has decided. That reasoning lies behind it. We have no experience of it, so we can say that it is not feasible, but we do not know that, because the instrument has never worked in this way in the Netherlands. We should therefore test whether that is true or not in practice. Once again, the State Commission has looked at it thoroughly and has given its opinion on it. The Council of State, a High College of State, has also looked at this in depth and delivered an opinion. That was the bandwidth I had advised, and the Chamber finally amended this in the draft Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u278	You have three more blocks: practical questions, process and relationships. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u279	Yeah, sorry. I'm gonna skip one. Indeed, there are still a number of things in practice, the process and the relationship with the other initiatives. That's exactly the order. Let me start with an important point: the relationship between the time of elections and whether you can hold referendums or referendums. If this proposal is accepted, of course, but I am not going to repeat it in every reply, then how should this be adopted, first of all, also a part of the implementing legislation? I think it is indeed to be expected that, at the time it is possible, so that you can have a referendum so I shall say'save' to an election, it is wise to combine it as much as possible. And then, of course, it would be nice if you could do that in the elections to the House of Representatives, where there is the highest turnout and where the threshold of outcome is also related. That may not always be possible, because it may indeed be that a law is passed so far away from elections, that it is impossible to organise a referendum in terms of planning. The second possibility you then naturally have is that, if there are different referendums, you try to keep them on the same day. That also has an increasing effect. That is, for example, the practice they do in Switzerland. Well, it's ultimately a matter of implementing legislation, and that's what you'll come to talk to each other about. Then there is Mrs Baay's question, which has taken the passage from my letter that more appealing issues can lead to a higher turnout. It is, of course, always difficult to predict how high a turnout will be and what subject people are talking about. As I said, the combination with general elections is encouraging turnout. But we have research in the Netherlands on, for example, local referenda. There you see that in municipal reclassifications there is a higher turnout than when you hold a referendum on building plans in public space, for example. So the subject does have an impact on turnout; one theme is more appealing to the voters than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u280	A question about that parallelity of the referendum and Lower House elections. Article 89d states: "The most recent Lower House elections." My question to the initiator and to you was: are these the previous Lower House elections or is that the election at the same time as that referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u281	No, as it stands, it's about the previous Lower House elections. So if you hold a referendum at the same time as the next one, then the outcome threshold is related to the elections four years ago, or so much earlier than those elections were held.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u282	Then how do you appreciate the clever solution put forward by Mr Van Raak? He said, if that's simultaneous, and that's the election and you always have a high turnout, then we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u283	In my opinion, Mr Van Raak and I argued along the same lines: that the link to the elections for the House of Representatives, of course from the perspective of reaching the threshold of outcome, is the most interesting, because then you have already guaranteed a high turnout. How high that is... Of course, he doesn't necessarily have to be the same as he was last time. You never have that guarantee, but in that sense, that link is a logical one, if it can. I have just outlined: you can strive for it, but it must be organised in the implementing legislation. And I think that with the proposals that have just been made here, you can still imagine situations where legislation comes into being fairly quickly and is far from the Lower House elections, and that you might better choose another route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u284	That is very enlightening, because I almost got the impression from Mr Van Raak's reply that it could be about the elections taking place at the same time as the referendum. But that does not appear to be the case. Not at all! One important question is the following. The Minister just said that the period between the filing of a law and the next election could be so great that you should do something. What is she thinking of? That is the first question. The second question, which I would like to link to it, is the one I have also asked Mr Van Raak. That was the question: how are we supposed to deal with laws that cannot wait, which have to go into and where there is a certain period of time, a period of perhaps more than a year, which then have to be repealed by Article 83f, to name but a few?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u285	First of all, emergency legislation would be excluded. We have a lot to do with urgent legislation these days. He shouldn't have to wait for the referendum anyway. Other legislation, of course, is. However, as I said earlier, it is a matter of regulating the implementing legislation. You have to settle what you think is desirable here, and you also have to settle the conditions under which you can combine a referendum and elections or vice versa in which circumstances you could not wait for them. There are, of course, different modalities for this. Once again, I agree with Mr Van Raak that where you can link it to those elections, and indeed with other elections, but because of the turnout especially to those national elections, which is absolutely preferable for all kinds of reasons. For practical reasons, for financial reasons, but also because I believe that turnout can play a role in this. But I cannot say in any case in advance that that would be the case. You can imagine that if it were to be over a series of years, it would not actually be realistic to keep legislation waiting so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u286	Of course, I very much agree with the Minister, especially with regard to the latter. Because then you create your own disappointment for those who really want to. I have another enlightening question about what the Minister said about the emergency laws. How do you prevent a government from raising a lot of things to emergency law? After all, then at least you are not referendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u287	That's a good question. Maybe I can come back to that later. I do not think that the Chambers will accept that everything should be regarded as emergency legislation, but I shall come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u288	My question concerns the combination with the Lower House elections. The Minister says now that it is far from possible for all referenda to be realized. If it happens to be just before an election, you combine it. But that will really be a small minority. This means that it does not apply to most referendums. And so the problem of the threshold remains. There is no data available other than that scientific data that we have collected here through the experts. Those experts say that it is to be expected that referendums with a height of 40% are not feasible. The minister seemed to protect that there are other scientific insights. Which ones are they? I don't think there are any. But I like to hear it when there are. Secondly, that combination would therefore be possible. That was a bit of Mr Van Raak's last line of defense to say: that would allow you to reach that threshold. But if that is not possible, then it is a recipe for disappointment. What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u289	I do not think I have said that I have taken other scientific insights into account in relation to the three that are now before us. I said: I finally took into account the opinions of the Council of State and the Remkes Committee. The Remkes Committee has, of course, also studied this very carefully and involved the scientific insights. But Mr Koole knows that much better than I do. That was my reference to other scientific insights. I agree with Van Raak that you prefer to hold such a referendum when there are also elections. I would add that it also depends on implementing legislation exactly how you set it up. That's what Van Raak said in his input. And it may not always be realistic. You can also imagine that holding a referendum on a subject of great topical value has an advantage. Apparently, there are a lot of people asking for a referendum on a particular bill or law. It can be imagined that this will also lead to enthusiasm in itself to vote if that referendum can be held. So I'd like to take that into account, too. Finally, it is an outcome threshold, which determines how many votes should ultimately be cast in order to vote something out in that referendum. It has not been said, however well we do here, that society and the electorate are always about fifty-fifty divided. It's always a very exciting "who's first at the finish line." That's all part of the game too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u290	May I ask Members to make short interruptions, because we are already an hour behind, and also short answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u291	Do I understand correctly that the Minister now says that the scientific insights she has used, I mean the behavioural scientific insights based on international comparative research, consist of those of the three experts who are here and that of the state committee? Because the Council of State didn't use that investigation. If these are the studies on which it bases itself, how can it come up with the proposal to accept the 40% threshold? Because that certainly doesn't follow from those investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u292	I've never talked about behavioral scientific insights. Mr Koole spoke about this. I have spoken about the bandwidth I have used from the cabinet, based entirely on the State Commission on the one hand and the State Council on the other, two esteemed advisers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u293	That was a repeat. Mr Otten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u294	I have a question for clarification. I just heard that discussion about the emergency bill. It was also mentioned. When I read Article 89e of the bill, I see it: if the ratification of a proposal for a law cannot be delayed, the law will be adopted immediately or will enter into force immediately. Paragraph 2 states that if a majority as referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 89 is against the law, the law shall automatically lapse. It has just been suggested here as if an emergency law would not be referendable, but that is not how I interpret it. The law applies, but you can possibly vote him out afterwards. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u295	That's what I thought I said. If not, then with this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u296	That's what they said. Then I suggest that we let the Minister finish the block by the block and we stop the interruptions until the end of each block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u297	I have two more points to make on this part, Mr President. First the unliterate, hard-to-reach groups. Mrs Baay asked for that. Of course, you should pay a lot of attention to that, because it is very important to be able to take everyone into what it is about. There's a lot of ways to do that. We also have experience with how to provide information from the government to those groups. Once again, this is in the implementation and not so much in the constitutional amendment. I recognize the point and I think it is an important point. Then there is the question of disinformation. Mr Nicolaï asked for it and others also said things about it. The argument is that, precisely because it concerns one subject, it is easier to influence. Not so much political and social influence, because that is certainly justified, but rather to provide misleading information to voters through disinformation and thereby exert influence which, of course, you would prefer not to. From the government we are reluctant when it comes to the content of disinformation. In general, we choose to warn against the fact that it is there and we like to leave it to others, such as journalists and scientists, to discuss the content. I think it suits the government to exercise great restraint. However, there are situations in which specialist departments are also involved in the substantive discussion when it is really about incorrect information. At the moment, for example, it may be useful, in relation to vaccinations, to contradict factual information and to ensure that citizens themselves have easy access to factual and correct information. I recognise the point and agree that this is different in elections than in referendums because it concerns a single subject. At the same time, we must always ensure that people are well aware of the fact that this disinformation exists, that it can be polarising and that people can be put on the wrong track. You're gonna have to see how you can handle that from the government in a good way. Mr. Chairman. I'm on the subject of trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u298	Mr Nicolaï, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u299	My third question has not yet been addressed by the Minister. That was the question of what government plans are currently being made to tackle the large tech companies, which are cooperating in this kind of disinformation, with horrific consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u300	In relation to this bill, do you mean that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u301	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u302	This is a very topical subject. Mr Nicolaï is quite right about that. Both the cabinet and the European Commission, in consultation with the Member States, are working on this. You can also see that a lot is happening in other countries. We have recently seen the example of the United States. I'm gonna leave that for a while. I think our course is that we still want these companies to take responsibility for themselves. We can also make arrangements with them. At European level, we have now agreed on a code of conduct with them. And we want to take another step forward, by also looking at whether we can use a form of regulation at European level, which should focus on transparency and, above all, on providing insight to scientists, people who can do so, in how these algorithms of tech companies work. There's the crux, I think, that these algorithms give a certain direction. You're looking for information about something and inside two clicks you're in something that doesn't touch anything. People can be sucked in there and taken away. We need a much better understanding of that. We're really gonna demand that from those tech companies, because you can see how huge their influence is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u303	I'd like to come back to that information. We have seen this in the referendum on the Association Treaty, for example, but also in the Drag Act. The association agreement, which had not received any political attention at all, actually covered Ukraine's quasi-accession to the EU. It was a very extensive treaty. I've studied it myself, as one of the few. The information was incredibly good during that referendum. There were all insights that had not been spotted by politics at all. It did not lead to disinformation, but to a very substantive discussion. How does the Minister see that? I think it was just not the correct representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u304	That's very good. I was talking about disinformation and not about the information that comes with a referendum. In response to Mrs Baay, I said that it is so important that people are properly informed. This will be done in different ways. It can be from the government when it comes to purely factual, technical, information. You know that we also said last week that we want to work much more transparently as a government at all and that we are going to give the Chamber access to all kinds of documents when we come up with proposals. What Mr Otten is describing, I cannot judge him now, but I take his word for it. I hope, however, that this information will simply be made available by the government and that there will of course be a political debate involving statements and positions taken by different political parties, as is the case with elections or referendums. What we don't want is disinformation and incorrect information that puts people on the wrong track. Of these, we have to decide on a case-by-case basis whether to find something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u305	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u306	We saw right there that people decided in a very substantive way to vote. This has been researched by the University of Nijmegen. He examined it all afterwards, with lots of samples and you name it. Corruption in Ukraine was seen as a major problem. Some sort of EU accession portal was seen. Those were the main reasons according to that investigation, I remember by memory. It was a very extensive study, which showed that people were voting very substantively...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u307	That's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u308	In fact, the disinformation was previously promoted by politics. I do not want referendums to lead to disinformation. I think you are going to have a substantive discussion that is going to be separate from the personal democracy that we have in the Netherlands very much. Some people may have to get used to that, but I think it is very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u309	Thank you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u310	I come to a number of questions about the process that has gone on so far. Mr Van Hattem, for example, had...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u311	Can you tell me when this block is over? Then we can allow interruptions again. We'll hold the interruptions until the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u312	Yes, I will. Mr Van Hattem asked why I did not come up with the initiative myself. I think I've already answered that question. He also asked if I would have chosen another approach. Mr Van Raak was very quick with his proposal. He took that out of the drawer, like he said. It came a month and a half after the opinion of the state committee. I couldn't compete with that either way. Of course, Mr Van Hattem understands that. Like I said, we didn't do it ourselves. However, we wanted to contribute to the substantive discussion on the proposal, including by making suggestions on how the cabinet would consider the proposal to be better. This has led to a number of amendments. All in all, the cabinet has therefore been able to agree with the proposal before us. So if there had been a proposal, it would have been reason to believe that this would have been broadly in line with what is going on here. Mr Kox asked whether it would still be possible to complete the first reading in good time. He means by that before the forthcoming elections. Of course, that depends entirely on this Chamber. If the proposal is accepted by the First Chamber, some further steps need to be taken. The government will then have to take a formal decision on the ratification of the proposal. This means that I will submit it for discussion in the Council of Ministers. As we all know, we're a missionary. That does not mean that we would not be able to take a decision on ratification. We're gonna have to get that involved. The cabinet can endorse the proposal. The Declaration Act will then have to be published as soon as possible. All this must be done before the new Lower House is elected. Then there's the question of a novelle. Mr Dittrich and others have talked about this. Mr Dittrich asked: if a novelle is tabled to amend the present proposal, how should it work? Would you eventually work towards something very different from what is now in store? You already had the discussion with Mr Van Raak. I went to Lower House with him. I think that a very clear political choice has been made in the House of Representatives on the issue that is at issue today, namely the threshold of outcome. I can't speak in front of the House of Commons. So I can't rule anything out. In the debate and the outcome of the debate, I have maintained that these views are rather firm. I therefore recognise that the 'chasse patate', which Mr Van Raak is always talking about, could arise. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u313	Was this the block of trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u314	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u315	Can I ask the Minister in her role as advisor to this Chamber another question about the trial? The Minister states that it is not up to her to come up with a novelle, but that the initiator should consider it. I can understand her words in such a way that she does not say in advance that it will work with that novelle. On the contrary. We focus on this, because there is a certain opinion about a part of the bill in the House of Representatives, and there is a different opinion about it in some parties here. That is the modality over the threshold of outcome. Can the Minister brief us on another possibility contained in our Constitution? The Constitution states that constitutional changes must take place in two readings. We do this in order to prevent inheritance, to conduct a voter consultation in between and to ensure extra broad support. I'm just quoting a previous state committee. In that second reading, it is not a stamp machine, so two chambers with two-thirds majority have to say yes and then it is done, or have to say no, after which it is gone. I have also looked at the scientific commentary on the Dutch Constitution of our former colleague Hirsch Ballin and our former colleague Alis Koekkoek...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u316	And then you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u317	Yes. It's very complicated, but I did warn the minister in advance. However, it is a relevant question, I think, and perhaps a new one in the debate. Article 137 (5) of the Constitution states that the Lower House is entitled to split a proposed amendment of the Constitution at first and second reading. This can be done, for example, if it turns out that the proposal would not reach a two-thirds majority at second reading, because there is a part of it that is too problematic. Can the Minister tell me whether my reasoning is correct that the second reading of the House of Representatives, heard the discussion here and following the new scientific insights, could decide not to amend the legislative proposal, but to split it so that the various parts of that constitutional change can be voted on by the House of Representatives at second reading? The First Chamber always votes on the whole; we do not have the right to split. Is that a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u318	A brief answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u319	Mr Kox was indeed kind enough to give me a message so that I could look at Article 137 of the Constitution. It's true. The article notes that the Second Reading House can split a Constitutional Amendment proposal. If that is the question, and the question stops there, then the answer is: yes, there is that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u320	Thus, if that possibility exists, it would be possible, for example, to divide the legislative proposal now before us, provided that the House of Representatives would like to do so by a large majority, into the essential part of a second reading, namely the inclusion of the corrective referendum in the Constitution, and the other part, the modality of the results. That would be possible. Is it happening? I can't see into the future. But I think we can do it, and I think we can do it according to the manual consulted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u321	I have a comment to make. It also requires a two-thirds majority, but Mr Kox will agree with me. But it must be on subjects that can be physically separated from the main proposal. For example, of the provision on the co-governments you can say: that is a kind of loosely available part, so you can split that up on the basis of this article. I think this is more complicated at the outcome threshold. It is contained in an article, Article 89d, that you can't just split up and deal with separately, because you'd be left with an imperfect main proposal. There is no mention of the legal effects of the referendum when this part is split up. I would like to make that point. It is up to the House of Representatives, but that would be my opinion if you asked the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u322	Mr. Kox. Third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u323	Finally, Mr President. I'll get back to you in my second term. It is, of course, a question of weighting. The power of decision lies entirely with the Lower House. He can do that; he doesn't have to apologize. But it is precisely the articles a, b and c that relate to the essence. Article d concerns modality. In my opinion, there have been enough commentators in the past who have pointed out that this could be an example of one area that is problematic, while the other could receive broad support. I think it is important that the Minister has confirmed that this is possible alongside the novelle. The novelle is sometimes a means, but that's what it's going to be, in a few weeks' time, just not be, I think, and that means four years' delay. This method is not something that has extensive case law, but it was good enough to write a contest between students three years ago at Radboud University with the question: what about this possibility of division?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u324	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u325	I think there is more chance for this Chamber to improve than in consultation with colleagues in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u326	Minister, would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u327	Very briefly. I confirm what Mr Kox says about the possibility for the House of Representatives to make constitutional changes to that split. That's different from amending it. That is why I suspect that this discussion will be complicated, especially when it sees that part. But once again, that is neither up to Mr Kox nor to me. It is up to the House of Representatives to decide. I would also like to add on this novelle that, apart from the feasibility of this, there are, of course, a number of possible routes. If this Chamber were to agree to this proposal, then of course you can continue the route of the novelle and, at the same time, at the second reading, again make the first reading of another proposal. So there are several ways to end up with something else. That's all over time, but it doesn't have to be 12 years later in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u328	I am a little surprised at Mr Kox's move, if I may be honest. We have a debate here all day. A number of times he asks in the debate to come up with creative thoughts. He says he's got one of his own. All this time, it's stuck over the market and he doesn't say anything about it. Now, at the last minute, now that time is under pressure, he says: this could be the case. I think that's a surprising move. If this had been a serious proposal from Mr Kox, he would have been able to discuss it earlier. I'm sorry he's doing that now. Let us talk about the content, because that is perhaps important; let us give it full weight. I'll do that in a question to the Minister. Maybe we'll come back to it in second term. Does the Minister have any indication that there would be a two-thirds majority in the House of Representatives, who would be willing to split it so that the threshold of outcome would not be adopted, whereas it would not be willing to delete the threshold of outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u329	In the debate I attended in the House of Representatives, this subject was not discussed at all. I can't say a sensible word about that. I only know what the outcome of the debate has been. The split has not been discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u330	The Minister is more intelligent than that. The question is, of course, very simple. Mr Kox has a clever way of getting the outcome threshold out of the bill in a moment. In the second reading, the House of Representatives, and then we, then adopt the proposal, but without a threshold of outcome. The question is whether there is any indication that there is a majority for that route. For if it is not, then it is simply a gratuitous remark from Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u331	I understand now that I stand here between Mr Kox and Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u332	No, I'm asking for your advice, because you're talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u333	Let's get to the point of order. The debate between Members of Parliament will take place in the second term. You are now in a debate with the Minister and not with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u334	Then I hope that we will have the opportunity to go into that, because if we have very tight speaking time, we will not be able to have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u335	We get a second period of at least an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u336	Of course, Mr Ganzevoort asked me something. I find it difficult to answer about the views of the House of Representatives, but I would like to express my doubts about that possibility now, because I do not think that you can split up and deal with the article of Article 89d, which also shows the binding nature of the bill. I would like to make that point. I also said that to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u337	Thank you for the Minister's last remarks, because of course that is what my question was about. We believe that only a legislative proposal has been adopted in the House of Representatives because a number of essential aspects have been added to it. It would be very wonderful if these essentialia were massaged away in a second reading. My question to the Minister is whether, for the second term, she could at least find out whether that could or should be done. Otherwise I would almost say: let us stop the debate and submit it to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u338	That's almost an order proposal. If that achieves a majority, it becomes a fact. If you're serious, you have to make an order proposal. That is possible, but that requires a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u339	First the answer, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u340	My view is that Article 89d is an important article which cannot be separated so easily and can be dealt with separately because it leaves an imperfect main proposal, because it would not have the legal effects of the referendum. That is my opinion that I am here to give to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u341	I hope that the Minister will be able to give that answer more explicitly in a moment. In the end, we can come up with an order proposal. I think that, with this half answer, is too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u342	The Minister will be given a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u343	I regret that Mr Schalk thinks it is a half answer, because it is not meant to be a half answer. My opinion is that you can't say in advance that this can be split out. I compared it with the subject of the co-governments that has been amended. There I see very clearly that it could be done. I don't see that in this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u344	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u345	Then perhaps it is important that we hear Mr Kox's appreciation so far in the second term. Then we get a whole new fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u346	In passing, the Minister mentioned another possibility, namely that, at the second reading of this bill, if it were adopted, you could start with the first reading of another proposal to amend it. I ask the Minister, in her role as advisor, for advice. I'm not asking her if that's desirable or not. What would be the saving of time if you were to align the law now and make a new proposal next year without that threshold, now in relation to the law, and at the same time amend it so that that threshold will also disappear next year? What's the saving in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u347	No, there is no time-saving, other than having the referendum when you adopt that law in the meantime. For the rest, Mr Koole's two proposals are the same in terms of time. If you do not accept this proposal now, but do a novelle, the first reading with novelle will take place in the next cabinet period and the second reading in the cabinet period after that, so let's say for convenience after 2025. If this Chamber were to continue with this proposal, the second reading could begin in the next period. At the same time, we could start with the first reading of a referendum which has the threshold Mr Koole dreamed of. In the meantime you have the higher threshold and in the cabinet period after 2025 you can finish the second reading of a referendum with a better threshold in Mr Koole's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u348	I note that the Minister says that there is no time savings between these two scenarios. It's both gonna take the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u349	Yeah, it takes two periods. Because we're so close to that election right now, that's a fact. But my reasoning was that you will have this referendum in another period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u350	Minister, your last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u351	Yeah, and that's not so much anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u352	Would you like to keep it brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u353	A few questions have been asked about other initiatives and their relationship. Mr Kox asked about the other constitutional proposals. Is it gonna be okay to finish that? That's gonna be exciting. In fact, with all these proposals, we are less far-reaching than with the proposal before us. Two of the proposals are under consideration in this Chamber: the way in which this Chamber is elected and the second reading of the constitutional changes. In fact, I thought there would be input today. If there's any questions, we're gonna get to work on them. Then we have two other proposals: the right to return and the way in which members of the Supreme Court are appointed. They're in the Council of State right now. So I still have to get those advices. In the meantime, the cabinet has become decommissioned and I am in any case awaiting what the Chambers still do and do not want to deal with. There is one more question I had not answered from Mr Raven. I should have answered it before. He asked for a commitment that the parliament that would then be sitting would not harm parliamentary democracy in making implementing legislation. If it were to be adopted in the near future, it would be a major legislative task, but no matter what cabinet there is, it must be carefully taken into account. Of course, I have no doubt about that. The scope that will soon be available for the implementing legislature is also determined and limited by the proposal that is now in place and will then indicate the direction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u354	Thank you, Minister. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I repeat the appeal to Members to put on a mask when walking through the Chamber and keep a distance of 1.5 metres at all times. Then we start the second term with Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u355	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin, as usual, by congratulating Mr Raven. He is not present at the moment, but this is undoubtedly coming to him through the Acts. I wish him a good time in this house. Mr. Chairman. We're having a pretty bizarre debate. That is because we are forced into an unholy dilemma, where passionate supporters of the referendum seem to be the most critical and classic opponents defend it. Amazing. It has something to do with all kinds of sliding panels in the debate. Sometimes I feel like we're doing some kind of boxing match against balloons, where they're very easy to hand along and you never really get a grip on where the real point is right now. It has been mentioned before that this also has to do with the way in which roles are filled out. Of course the Minister is a consultant; we all understand that. The initiator says he's a trial counselor, but he's also just a defender. We as the First Chamber would like a substantive review of this proposal. That's our job. This substantive review is about all kinds of issues, such as the quality of the law, its feasibility, and so on. That is made a bit complicated, because we constantly get the ultimate argument: the House of Representatives does not want this. Mr. Chairman. That makes it extremely complicated to have the conversation here. We see that almost everyone, supporters and opponents, scientists and so on, says that this threshold is unrealistic. Someone, like the defender, doesn't say this. A number of others, who still want it to continue, say: "This is just about to happen. Maybe we can do it if we let it coincide with elections." If that is not possible, they say: no, but if it cannot coincide with elections, it has so much attraction that it will succeed. While we've worked it out, we've got solid advice that this isn't gonna work out that way. It's just really wishful thinking. I'm sorry. An outcome threshold has been introduced. There is no objection to that, but there is an objection to the level. This has been discussed extensively. We understand that this threshold was there for the comfort of the opponents of the referendum. Then I think: must the defender of this proposal be scratching behind his ears? What does it mean that this was necessary for the opponents and that it is not going to help to get it done? The Minister defended a bandwidth based on theoretical notions rather than an x number of credit transfers. Every time we get an argument: this is what the House of Representatives wants. Like that's where the thinking stopped! As if it doesn't matter at all what further substantive arguments are put on the table. As if the substantive debate here, also for the defender, is less relevant than the comfort in the House of Representatives. I think that is a complicated way of conducting the debate with each other, and it is not exactly what it should be like in this house. I would like to skip the point that has been clarified about the, quite frankly, some misleading information. It was about the question of which elections count. Those are indeed the previous elections. That point has now been clarified. I found the following statement by Mr Van Raak striking. At one point, he said that this form of referenda fits very well with our parliamentary democracy. If he means a binding effective corrective referendum, I say yes. But I can also read that same statement cynically. At a time when our parliamentary democracy is under discussion, the opportunity for citizens to have influence is under discussion. This is about the gap between the people and the representatives of the people. It is rather cynical to have a referendum with such a high threshold of outcome, so many say that it is not going to work, to say that it fits so well with our parliamentary democracy. I hope that Mr Van Raak does not have such a cynical view of democracy. At least I don't know him that way, so I'd be very surprised. But this raises the question of what exactly we are doing here. It has already been said that the idea of waiting for the next elections is not really feasible. With a clear result, where the threshold has not been reached, it seems to me illusory that the House of Representatives thinks: should we not reconsider? If the Chamber has passed a law by a majority, when it was not prepared to talk about good arguments that came from here, then surely it will not be so that when a referendum is held that it does not make it, the Chamber thinks: let us change the law. That sounds like an illusion to me. Equally an illusion is the idea that we can solve it through Article 137 (5) by splitting the proposal. But I think that has just become clearer, unless Mr Kox is going to explain it in detail in a moment and we all get an even more picture of it. I think the minister was clear. The expectation that the House of Representatives would cooperate that the outcome threshold would be de facto demolished and that it would be given a two-thirds majority would seem to me to be a complete illusion. If we delete that part, the effect is that there is no exit threshold at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u356	I hear Mr Ganzevoort van GroenLinks anticipate what the House of Representatives will find. But if we pass the law now, we'll have parliamentary elections first. Mr Ganzevoort cannot yet know what the outcome of the Lower House elections will be. Perhaps the relations in the House of Representatives will become such that there will be a second majority in order to make the adjustments that are required here. At least we will have dealt with the proposal here and we will be able to go further. If we put it aside here now, there's nothing left. We'll be empty-handed for the next four years anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u357	If Mr Van Hattem is right, I would like to give him my heartfelt thanks, then a novelle will work as well. Because that too must then pass the new Chamber, which will then support that novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u358	In my view, the current process of constitutional change should wait until the next parliamentary elections to get the bill through. In my opinion, it must have been completed before the Lower House elections in order to be able to do this at this rate. Otherwise we will simply be empty-handed and the whole process will have to take place from the start. With a novelle like this, we're not getting anywhere in terms of time savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u359	Mr Van Hattem has, of course, been able to follow in detail in the debate that the big debate is right: who is empty-handed? I don't mind us sitting empty-handed as a room. I'm sorry if civilians are empty-handed. If we adopt a bill that is simply insufficient, citizens will be empty-handed. That is why we really want to go to great lengths to improve this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u360	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u361	The citizens will not be empty-handed if this law is passed, because then they will have the potential to veto laws very heavily. They don't have that kind of opportunity. Then there is indeed a high hurdle to be taken, but it is a heavy veto. It is a very unique right that is granted to citizens. Well, at least there is. Then we can work on lowering the thresholds at a later stage. The law is then already laid down in that sense. Isn't that already pure profit for our citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u362	Potentially, I have the opportunity to win a lottery. That's not gonna happen, 'cause I'm out. That's kind of what's happening here. The moment we say that you can potentially block a law, when that is de facto not a real possibility, what are we talking about? That is simply the fundamental question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u363	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u364	We consider it necessary to improve this law, because we want a well-binding corrective referendum. We are in favour of this. That is why we are going to the limit here today. That is why we are so keen on this debate. By the way, it may also be that the initiator is not prepared to submit the novelle. You don't have to. Someone else can file the novelle. In that respect, there is therefore all the room, including for others. Then we don't have a chase patate anymore, we have a relay. That's a nice sport, too. Mr. Chairman. In that context, I would like to table a motion. I understand I'm reading the motion here myself these days. That is a pity, and it does detract from your stature that you are not allowed to read any more motions. But, yeah, that's life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u365	There was so little left of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u366	Well, that's not so bad. The: Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Koole, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Otten and Mr Rosenmöller proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the parliamentary system of the State Committee, the instrument of a binding corrective legislative referendum as an ultimatum remedium in representative democracy can contribute to increasing confidence in the democratic system;]] [[noting that the legislative proposal includes a provision on a threshold of outcome, which will be unachievable in practice according to available scientific knowledge;]] [[Whereas the inclusion of an unfeasible threshold is undesirable, including in view of the confidence of voters in the democratic system;]] [[calls on the initiator to ensure that a novelle amends the present legislative proposal in such a way that it no longer contains an unfeasible outcome threshold;]] [[decides to postpone the vote on the proposed legislative proposal until such an amendment has been made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35129-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u368	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Kox of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the initiator for the first-term answers. My group's commitment to this debate is to see whether there can be support at first reading for an important constitutional change. That's our goal. We attach great importance to this constitutional change. That can't be new, because that's what we, but many other parties, have been saying for years. Now that there's an opportunity, we need to test the law. Is it feasible? That's what we have to do today. The focus of this debate is on one part of the law. There is actually, I think, a large majority in this Chamber to approve this bill at first reading, if it were not for some parties to say that there is one part of the proposal, as amended and accepted by the House of Representatives, that is to say that they are stuck in their throats. That's what they want out. I can follow that thought. Even more so, both my party in the Lower House and the initiator in the Lower House and I have preached here and continue to proclaim that the threshold for entry should not be included, certainly not at this level. Only, we are dealing with the simple reality that it is. It's been deployed by the House of Representatives and we can't get it out here. That's obvious. We do not have the right of amendment. According to some in this Chamber, the threshold is too high: Mr Koole, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Otten. According to the Council of State, it's high, but can be done. According to the minister, it's high, but it fits within the bandwidth. Some of the parties here say he's high, but he might have liked a little higher. Other groups say: well, he is high, but that was exactly what we wanted to support this law. That's what we're dealing with. So the question is, how do you solve that? Mr Ganzevoort said: why does Kox only come out of a box with a proposal at once? We all know the Constitution. I'll tell you in advance. It says that we are supposed to know the law. But I did not assume that in this Chamber, which is a majority in favour of the bill, such a big point would be made, almost a sine qua non, of that part. If that doesn't go out, they'll consider a vote against. That changed the situation. At that time I thought, during the written preparation and also now: it cannot be that our constitutionalist has not found a solution to this. There's a solution to that. I do not know whether that solution is applicable, but it is in our Constitution. I have announced that I would listen to the debate in the first term and that I would ask the Minister in the first term what her view is on this matter. That's how I did it. We now have a second term, both from this Chamber and from the Minister and the initiator. That question is: do we not look too blindly at that one possibility, a novella, which in its nature leads to this law being postponed for four years, we lose four years, and is there another method? The other method is there: after the first reading comes the second reading. The Constitutionalist has said that two readings of a constitutional change are needed, because we want to avoid overcrowding, because we want to give the voters a vote in between in front of the House of Representatives and because we want to have very broad support in the end. If, at first reading, there is a possibility that a two-thirds majority could be achieved in favour of a Constitutional change, but that there is a part in that bill that is not too good to achieve that two-thirds majority, that provision is included. The Minister has also confirmed that. Then, of course, the question is not a question I can answer and even the Minister cannot answer it, because it is a question to the House of Representatives or, given the verdict of the voters and given the discussion in the First Chamber and given the developing scientific insights, there could be reason to take one part of that law. Whether you can or can't? I have the idea that that might be possible, but yes, I'm a state judge of the cold ground, which doesn't do you much good. The Minister appreciates it differently, but that could be looked at. It would, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Koole, of course, produce something. This means that during the second reading the House of Representatives will have to take a decision on this matter. Then there are two possibilities. The first is that the House of Representatives says: we were clear, we want this threshold, we want it to stop, or we will abolish you. It's possible. But as my colleague Van der Linden has just said to me, there are going to be parliamentary elections, which leads to a different composition of the House of Representatives. By the way, these Lower House elections are not about this bill, but we already knew that. But there will be a different composition of the House of Representatives, which could lead to changing insights. We cannot rule out the fact that other parties and other people are elected to the Chamber and that there is more nutritional ground for the idea that something has actually happened that was not so good, namely: to introduce a very high threshold of outcome into the Constitution. We'll have room. So my proposal is not a futility, Mr Ganzevoort: he has also read the Constitution once and he mentions an article. I would point out that a problem that Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Koole, Mr Otten, Mr Nicolaï and many other Members of the Chamber may have could perhaps be solved, especially if we combine it with the possibility which the Minister points out to us: you can adopt it at first reading, go on the way to second reading and already propose additional legislation. Because then you will have a referendum, if it is adopted with a two-thirds majority, and then a modified referendum. Then we don't waste time and we get a referendum. We'll all agree that that's not perfect if it's not adjusted, but then we don't waste time. So I think that's a well-meaning and well-meaning way out of a problem. I have always had an institution in politics: making problems is not so difficult, but solving problems and finding a way out is actually much more interesting, especially in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u370	Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u371	I've got two minutes and 38 seconds left. I see there's still something people want to ask me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u372	Me too. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u373	That is a good solution to the problem that Mr Kox has just argued. I'm very much in favour of that, too. The author called me practically set up. I think there is a very practical solution, and perhaps even an opportunity to connect both gentlemen in terms of solutions. Why wouldn't it be possible to do and-and? So the motion, which I looked at very quickly and which I've seen before, could be. It's only two months before there's an election. There are a number of parties that need to be moved to see if they want to reconsider these amendments in the House of Representatives, but there really aren't that many. Why should there not be a route in which and looking at a novelle...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then, after the elections, your solution can still be looked at with that split and that two-thirds majority. Isn't there an en-en-solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u374	I don't think so, and I'll explain why. But if anyone can help me why it is, I'd love to hear it. If this Chamber makes a novelle that is normally done by the government, but in this case the petitioner and who is deposited with the House of Representatives, then there is a legislative proposal. A novelle is a bill to change the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u375	A novel is not made in this room. This is made in the Lower House by the initiator and comes in a vote and then here. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u376	The novelle must be made by someone and in this case it is by the initiator. The Minister is here as an advisor. If that novelle is made, then it's a bill, even if it sounds different. It's a bill that has to be dealt with in a parliamentary capacity by the House of Representatives. You can't file a bill with the Lower House and then say: if you haven't decided within ten days, we'll just move on. That's the problem right now. You say we still have time until March 17th, but the House of Representatives goes on February 12th with election recess. It will then no longer be able to meet and decide on the novelle. Then that wonderful solution means four years of delay, Mr. Van der Linden. In the first four years we will have no chance of reaching a verdict from both chambers that we will have a referendum. That four years delay is a shame to me, because in my opinion a solution can also be found in this other way. It is: adopt first reading and then see what you can do at second reading, whether you can agree on it, yes or no, and whether or not you are going to do additional legislation. I wish I could, but I don't think it's gonna happen because time is so short. So asking for a novelle means de facto saying that you are postponing the legislation for four years, and I think that is too high a price, I might add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u377	I think Mr Kox thinks too much here in problems rather than in solutions. That period is short, but have we become so bureaucratic that such a small adjustment can no longer be adjusted and speeded up in four or five weeks? There is one specific element involved. If it is agreed after or during this debate, then it can be so clear whether there is support for it. Then it'll be four weeks. What a hell of a piece, just before it's campaign recess! The initiator has indicated that he will not proceed. He could put all his energy into it. I think that's a risky attempt. That means, in any case, I believe, but I ask you through the President, that the vote on the proposal before us will be held until that novelle arrives. Isn't that right? Then we'll wait until we know if it's a viable route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u378	But if there's no novelle, we can't vote. And if we can't vote, we won't have a law for four years. That's the big trap there is. I understand exactly why colleagues Koole and Ganzevoort are asking for a novelle, because they hope that something can be taken out of the law that should not be in it. Only time is too short, it is not going to work and then it will mean four years' delay. You can't tell the House of Representatives to give an opinion on a novelle and in the meantime continue with the legislation. Then you'll have to wait for the novelle. The only solution, but I've never seen that happen before, would be to file a novelle, but then it's not a novelle, and then tell the House that she'll have two weeks to say yes and if she doesn't say yes, we'll vote on it. That's new state law. I'm in favour of change, but with new state law, I'm gonna scratch my head off or that's gonna work. I'm afraid it won't work. Then something would happen which Mr Van der Linden certainly does not want, namely that the legislation should be postponed by four years, when we can now have it. If this Chamber says yes to this bill next Tuesday, we still have the possibilities for a second reading, of supplementary regulations and of a changing House of Representatives. We've all got it, guaranteed. A novel is a lottery, and Mr Ganzevoort doesn't like it. The Minister also said that the chance is not very great that the House of Representatives will say: oh yes, we have decided, but we are getting it out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u379	Mr. Van der Linden, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u380	It might be a novelty, but it could, so hold on for a while. In my opinion, we can know very soon whether it is a viable route through the House of Representatives. If it becomes clear very quickly that it is absolutely impossible, then I think we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u381	I am always in favour of constructive and creative solutions. I can therefore imagine that the initiator will send us a letter before the vote on Tuesday or he will think that the path of the novel is feasible, in two parts. One: can it be done in time? Aren't we getting four years late? And can it be on the content? Is there a beginning of a chance that there is a majority for it in the House of Representatives, while at the moment a minority finds it? I'm very much in favour of that. I also hope that the Minister himself will be able to write down in a letter exactly what Article 135 (5) means and what the possibilities are. Then we have these two sources of information and then we can decide on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u382	The initiator and the minister will also be given a second term. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u383	I'm quite sensitive to that argument of those four years. I get that. And we'd like it all to be faster, we'd have wanted them before and so on and so forth. So I get all that, but the question is whether this is enough now. And I'm a little afraid that this proposal from Mr. Kox... He is now acting as if he is very surprised at the views expressed during this debate, and I think that this point was also very prominent in the written round of questions. We didn't ask those experts and so on for nothing, and that's what really got people thinking. My point was, however, that it is a little too easy for him to ignore the reactions, and I think that this idea of splitting up the proposal depends on exactly that same two-thirds majority. And more importantly, a novelle only needs a single majority, whereas that split needs a two-thirds majority. That is to say that two thirds of the House of Representatives should be prepared to abolish that threshold completely - apart from the question of whether this can be done in a legal sense, on which the Minister says something and in which Mr Schalk wants the Council of State to attend. But that's not a serious alternative, is it? No matter how the House of Representatives will change after the elections, will it suddenly say with a two-thirds majority: don't do an outcome threshold? That's not something we can expect, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u384	Mr. Kox, and I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u385	Mr Dittrich pointed out that the problem of this legislative proposal was at second reading: we would have to achieve a two-thirds majority in two Chambers. Is that gonna work? So far, with all our adventures around referenda, that has not worked. There's nothing we can do about those two thirds, so there will be. So, in the end, we will have to have a very broad majority in two chambers. And it is clear that that cannot be the proposal that you want, that I want exactly, that the Christian Union wants exactly; that is a compromise, as the initiator said. But I do not rule out, precisely on the basis of this discussion too, and in substance we are very much in agreement on the threshold for entry into the House of Representatives, that there is an understanding in the House of Representatives that this might not have been the smartest arrangement added by the House of Representatives, and that it might be possible to do so in a different way. It doesn't necessarily have to be in the Constitution, you can do it in a different way. And that gives us a chance at second reading, if we are going to talk about how the implementing law should be and whether we have any additional proposals. I think that wide-ranging discussion could create space. Of course, we could solve it that way. Then I'm not looking for the confrontation, because that doesn't help us, because we need a two-thirds majority, so we need to find the consensus. And we can't escape that. And if we disagree, well, then we have a problem with our Constitution. We did not write it, but I think it is a good idea: if you change the Constitution, you will eventually have to have a two-thirds majority, either left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u386	Mr President, concluding. I understand very well that you say that this two-thirds majority is necessary. In my analysis, that leads to the fact that that 40 amendment, which was right to secure that two-thirds majority, does not go out. So I don't get that route. And if Mr Kox believes that after today's debate, the House of Representatives will really reconsider what I hope very much, of course, is going to think again about "Was this wise?', Then a novelle is exactly the way to go, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u387	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u388	But Mr Ganzevoort, I think, with me in that the chance that this novelle will be adopted in the House of Representatives in a few weeks' time is low. And if it stays there, then we have four years delay. And that is the problem that lies on the table. And we can say that we need a single majority in the House of Representatives, but if we now have an element that will make it impossible to do so, and Mr Dittrich has also pointed out that we are achieving that two-thirds majority, well, then we have fooled ourselves a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u389	The advantage of a great distance from each other is that you can look a bit from the distance at what is happening here. At the time when there was talk of a novelle by Mr Van de Linden, I saw a rather firm no shaking by the author, so I am very curious how he will react to it in a moment. But I would like to ask Mr Kox that question about this idea of splitting up. You heard the Minister. It is, of course, cautious, and I understand that, but hopefully she will speak out even more clearly in a moment. Just for a moment, Mr. Kox, with your experience, with which you know how important it is that you have a complete political debate, especially in the House of Representatives where motions and amendments are weighed, weighed and finally adopted, and then you have a complete bill... How can you try to organise a debate here in this Chamber around the question: who knows, can we tempt them to split it up? Does Mr Kox really think that this is a reasonable and real picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u390	I'm not trying to seduce the House of Representatives. Then there are other topics that might be more interesting. I would point out that there is a constitutional possibility. This Chamber, part of this Chamber, says that the House of Representatives should now change something that it has previously decided. As great as our seduction skills are, the House of Representatives is not going to do that in the next two weeks. And if we wait then we have to wait four years for the referendum. You do not think that is the biggest problem, but you can understand that those who are in favour of the referendum are a majority of this Chamber, and that is a majority of the other Chamber of Deputies would be extremely sad about it. However, my limited experience shows that second reading is the essential part of the law. When we discussed the Constitutional Review Initiative Act, a proposal from Femke Halsema in this Chamber, this Chamber voted by a very narrow majority in favour of the bill, because several groups said: "It is a good plan that we want to support, but it still has a lot of problems. What is the result for the Council of State, what is the result for the Upper House, etc.? We still need to think about that." But the proposal was given the benefit of the doubt at first reading. In that case, the second reading did not lead to a solution. But that is also a solution, because then the House of Representatives found that there is simply no two-thirds majority in favour of this proposal. And that's when the initiator abandoned it. I think that if the scientific insights are really so convincing, if there is another composition of the House of Representatives, if the House of Representatives hears our debate, that at least is not bad for the chance that there will be another look in the House of Representatives to see if there are possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u391	Thank you. Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u392	Yeah, maybe finally a comment, so it doesn't have to be a question anymore. Apart from the political will of my party and of Mr Kox's party, I believe that we must also ensure purely state law here. Then it's incredibly important that we know exactly what we're talking about when it comes to splitting up such a bill. Let me support what Mr Kox has just asked. He asked the Minister to put in a letter for next week at least how she looks at this proposal concerning Article 137 Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u393	That seems to me to be an extremely good support. That's the information we need. Then we can watch it. But it remains that it is the new Lower House that is the only one empowered to decide whether and, if so, how a division of a constitutional amendment proposal takes place at second reading. I'd say the possibility is there. It is still very doubtful whether it will be used by the House of Representatives. I don't want to raise expectations. But I see that it's a more reliable, a more secure way than asking for a novelle that you actually know the outcome of and that you know you're getting four delays with a desire of a majority of this Chamber and a majority of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u394	I'm gonna turn the clock back on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u395	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna make an appeal to my colleagues. You can do that at the end of your second term. I believe that, after all the previous adventures with a binding corrective referendum, this proposal deserves to be adopted at first reading, because the majority of this Chamber actually thinks so. Part of this Chamber has problems with a part of the law. We cannot change that. That's what the House of Representatives is about. We can't force that in the House of Representatives in the very short term. I would say: give us time, take advantage of the fact that the Constitutionalist has said that there is no reason for exaggeration. Take advantage of the two lectures you have. Let the First Chamber elections get in the way and then see if and, if so, how there is a solution at second reading that Mr Verkerk, Mr Otten, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Koole and perhaps also my person can convince that this is a reasonable solution, that we want to go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u396	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. And for the Acts: I think Mr. Schalk just meant "before next week" that the letter should be there by next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u397	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u398	Mr. Chairman. My group also congratulates Mr Raven on his maiden speech. Thanks to both the initiator and the Minister for answering the frequently asked questions, in particular those on the threshold of outcome. If I interpret both correctly, it comes down to this. Let me sum it up in my own words and I also like to hear if that is not right. The initiator states that he is the counsellor of this legislative proposal and that he personally would have preferred a lower outcome threshold than the one of roughly 40%. The Minister advised on behalf of the government that the outcome threshold should be within a certain bandwidth with a bottom and top, i.e. between 33.3% and 40%. The Lower House has chosen the high bandwidth. Looks like the government could've lived with a low bandwidth. At least the Minister gave me that impression. However, according to both the initiator and the minister, the high threshold of outcome should not prevent a possible, through a referendum, withdrawal of the legal force of an adopted law, because if the referendum is held at the same time as the Lower House elections, you will always reach this threshold. Citizens have to go to the ballot box. This does not apply to referendums which are not linked to Parliamentary elections. In the meantime, it has become clear that the outcome threshold is linked to the rise of the previous Lower House elections. So that question has been answered. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a burning question from my group chairman. I promise you, it's not about the accounting rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u399	We're not gonna say anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u400	The Van der Graaf amendment was adopted by a majority in the House of Representatives, but not by a two-thirds majority. Does that matter before the second reading? In other words, is there a difference between an amendment that was adopted by half plus one at first reading and an amendment that was adopted by two-thirds majority? So that was a question on behalf of my group chairman. The construction proposed by Mr Kox is certainly worth considering. I look forward with interest to the response of the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u401	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u402	Mr. Chairman. Low thresholds, high dikes. Democracy and the rule of law in balance. That is what the final report of the State Committee on Parliament's system is called, also known as the Remkes Committee. The state committee recommended a binding corrective referendum with a limit of 33% after a long discussion within the committee. Some members of the committee even had a lower threshold in mind. But what did the House of Representatives do through a killer amendment of the Christian Union? I called it a poison pill; in this case, the poison pill of Segers. The House of Representatives realized a much higher outcome threshold. We heard the Prime Minister say during the implosion of his cabinet last week that he is mainly accountable to the electorate. That sounds good, but when it comes to this binding corrective referendum, the Rutte cabinet does not give at home. Then a high threshold is quickly set and democracy is struck off balance by the cabinet. Our group very much appreciates the Member of Parliament Van Raak and the efforts he has made to get this initiative law so far that we are here. Unfortunately, we believe that Mr Van Raak is a somewhat less good dealer and, in his desire to get this law passed, has been somewhat fooled by the opponents of the referendum with the Christian Union's killer amendment. Mr. Chairman. We do not see bread in Mr Kox's proposal for division either. Obviously, Mr Kox is under the spell of the many divisions in this First Chamber, but this does not seem to us to be a workable solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u403	It is amazing how quickly Mr Otten can understand this non-everyday figure, but first we get a letter from the Minister, so maybe he can take another second thought. It'll never make you stupider. I just wanted to say that Mr Otten said that the initiator made a deal on the results. However, the initiator said once again today that he did not recommend the amendment. It was adopted by a majority of the House of Representatives, but not with its support, nor with the support of my group. The understanding of a deal can't be that someone doesn't make a deal, but still hangs on it. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u404	I literally said he did a hell of a job, but he's a bad dealmaker. I didn't say he made a deal. He didn't make a deal, and that's the problem. He should have let it escalate in the Lower House. That would have been the time to do it. Now we are in the First Chamber pulling the democratic emergency brake, as is now supposed to be done about weekly. Of course, that should have happened there; that would have been the good gremium to try at least, but unfortunately that did not work. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u405	I would like to add something that Mr Otten can learn. The only way to prevent the amendment adopted from coming here was to say that Mr Van Raak, as the initiator, said: I think that is an unacceptable amendment, and I withdraw the whole matter. We would have just debated something else nice, but not a constitutional referendum. Then it would've just been off the table. That is good for Mr Otten: we do not have everything to choose. It's gonna be the way it's gonna be in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u406	Mr Otten, please respond and continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u407	I'll give you a brief response, Mr. Chairman. What could have been tried was not to include that threshold in the Constitution. Article 53 of the Constitution governs the election of the House of Representatives. There is something about proportional representation and the law regulates how that goes. The Constitution does not state what the electoral threshold is and the method by which the seats are distributed. None of that is in the Constitution. Those are implementing measures. This could have been done very well in this binding corrective referendum. The question is why that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u408	Mr Kox, your third question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u409	It did not happen because the authors of the amendment have drafted it in such a way that it is incorporated into the Constitution. They have organized it so well that despite the fact that they did not receive our support and the support of the Labour Party and GroenLinks, they still received a majority. Then it is democracy that must have the upper hand, isn't it? If it's decided by the House of Representatives by majority, it's in there. In fact, if you had a political group in the House of Representatives and you did not want it to be so, you should have accepted it. That's how the rules are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u410	Mr. Kox would like a car. He now has a car with no wheels and an engine that doesn't work. Yet he says: I have a nice car, at least I can put it in the street, so the neighbors can see that I have a nice car. But it's a car that doesn't drive, that's all we care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u411	Please continue your argument, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u412	I will continue my speech. The split of Mr. Kox we had had. I had already discussed in detail with the Minister the preventive action needed to balance our democracy and the rule of law. If there is no conceivable chance that a referendum will have the opportunity to make it and reject a law, then in practice politicians will not care. This is also apparent from various scientific research. You have been able to read the research of the University of Nijmegen, which shows that internationally 40% is very high and probably leads to the withdrawal of the voter. Mr Kox and others can say that at least we will have a referendum and then we can see if we can change anything later. I will say to Mr Kox and others: by that time, the electorate will probably have already dropped out. Mr. Chairman. Our group would very much like a well-functioning binding referendum, which, as has been said, has the necessary preventive effect on politicians in particular. This means that we should not create an obstacle course as has been done. That is why we are proposing to reconsider this. As you have seen, we also support Mr Ganzevoort's motion in this respect. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u413	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u414	Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber has a different task than the Second Chamber. We must pay particular attention to the feasibility of the law and its justification. This led us, after reading the experts' reports, to find that one requirement of feasibility was not met. The Remkes report states: "The first principle is that the introduction of the binding corrective referendum should give the people a real opportunity to express their views after the parliamentary legislative process has been completed." There has to be that real possibility. If there is no real possibility, we will adopt a law that introduces a pacifier. From our point of view, we are not allowed to do so. On the other hand, we all note that we are very much in favour of a corrective referendum. I really hope that we will not decide here tonight that it is ready again and that we will not adopt the proposal. At the same time, we demand that the percentage of 40% goes down. We must do the same from the point of view of duty. For the record, the Council of State has not based itself on any scientific behavioral research. The Council of State has taken a decision on the 40% from a kind of balance that it thought it would find between representative democracy on the one hand and the referendum on the other. The same applies, I think, to those responsible for the amendment. They didn't do that investigation either. I cannot imagine that the House of Representatives is not sensitive to these arguments when we show that scientific research entails that the threshold that Remkes has placed in it should be the maximum threshold. I therefore fully support Mr Kox. I can't imagine that the House of Representatives, if she just thinks about her job, would go along with that. But how do we get there? I heard something about a novelle. I also saw the initiator shake no. I heard something about splitting up. I understand from the Minister that it is very much a question of whether this division is possible. As a lawyer, I say that that question also arises in my mind. If you delete the legal effects and let alone have a right to hold a referendum, what happens when the referendum is adopted is not regulated. I very much wonder if that is a passable road. So there are two unstoppable roads. Let me now try to present a third road to my colleagues. You know me as someone who is very critical and who will always look at the quality of a legislative change. The quality of this bill is poor. But this is the first reading. I can also imagine that today, at least the parties who are in favour of the remedial referendum being able to go through must say: okay, the opinion that the proposal is not good, we will just park for a moment, because the proposal will come back at that second reading. Specifically, why do we not vote in favour of the proposal? Then we will give the initiator and the minister the opportunity to see if the process in the Lower House can be initiated in order to bring about the change that will be necessary to get the law through here, in this Chamber, in the second reading, with the judgment on the quality of the law. So my proposal is a third way. Not a novelle, not a split, but let us simply accept the proposal. Let us rely on the quality of the House of Representatives. It must be able to understand that what has then been set as a limit, ignorant of expert advice, must be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u415	Thank you, Mr. Nicolai. Mr Ganzevoort has the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u416	I would like to thank Mr Nicolai for his constructive thinking about what would help now, because we share a great deal of the problems, I think. But I don't quite get his suggestion yet. If he says we have to accept this proposal, does he say he hopes that the House of Representatives will do something else? Because at second reading, the bill simply comes back unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u417	If the proposal comes back unchanged at second reading, we will be able to vote on the proposal at that time. I can answer the question: what are we losing in our position when we say today: we are going, under the condition that we ourselves think that the House of Representatives should start to use its senses and hope that this will happen, agree with this proposal? What are we gonna lose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u418	I don't know about that, but I don't know what the proposal is gonna bring. For if the House of Representatives says that it accepts the proposal, then at second reading the identical proposal will come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u419	What I would like to point out is that we should not go into the question of whether a novel is feasible or whether a division is feasible. We must leave the proposal for a moment and say: we are going for it, we are counting on what is wrong with the law to be adjusted, and we will see when it comes back at second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u420	Mr. Ganzevoort. Third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u421	If I understand correctly, Mr Nicolaï hopes that the House of Representatives will spontaneously come forward with a novella to improve the proposal, but we do not ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u422	The House of Representatives doesn't come with a novelle. The initiator comes with a novelle, or someone else in the Lower House comes with a novelle. That is indeed what should happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u423	I am glad to hear this from Mr Nicolaï. As has been said, he is not the first to stand up to ask whether there is a compromise anywhere, but in this case, precisely because a majority in both Chambers wants this referendum, but there is only great disagreement about the modalities, this is a possibility. I agree with Mr Nicolaï that we do not have to decide what to do now, unless we decide now that we are asking for a new one, because then we will have four years of delay; we know that for sure. If we adopt this law at first reading and then start the process in which we can contribute to improvement, where the House of Representatives is naturally in the lead, there are opportunities to find a solution, whatever, which will soon have a majority. Or no solution will be found and the parties will say: this is such an issue for us that we are voting against the law. And then the law doesn't come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u424	You are in fact repeating Mr Nicolaï's proposal once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u425	No, it's about making sure I understood it that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u426	A brief answer: yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u427	Yes, Mr Kox understood that correctly. It is good that he asked his question, because an additional argument in my proposal is that we are not running up to the four-year delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u428	Fantastic. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can actually largely agree with what has just been exchanged between Mr Kox and Mr Nicolaï. As Mr Van Raak pointed out in the first term, on the SP side, there is also a piece of Brabant sophistication that I always like to see by looking at what we can do with, for example, that letter on Article 137 of the Constitution. The important thing now is that we don't waste those four years. We really need to go through this law now and do everything we can to ensure that there is a referendum possibility in the Constitution, that at least we have the foot of the door, that it is permanently on the agenda and that the Dutch know that they have the opportunity to organise a referendum. It is, of course, true that the outcome threshold is simply far too high and far too high. I said that in my first term. I agree with everyone here who criticises this. I also agree with what Mr Otten says. What was introduced in the House of Representatives by the coalition parties, especially the Christian Union, is a killer amendment. But we do have a point of principle here. If we find that it is a killer amendment, then we should not finish the killing job and then we should not let a killer vote take place in the First Chamber, but then we should at least ensure that this referendum opportunity for the citizens is put in place and that the path to direct democracy is taken or the channels digging into power, as Hans van Mierlo of D66 once called it, to some extent is realized. The next step is then that everything is done to bring new legislation from the Lower House to bring down the outcome threshold. That as far as a roadmap is concerned. It is not an easy road, but at least it is a route to enable the remedial binding referendum in the Netherlands. But we should not be stuck here in all kinds of political games to stop the law somehow. There will undoubtedly be groups which are divided internally about the desirability of direct democracy and referendums, but we really need to make that choice here and be consistent in it. When I hear some groups talking about a recipe of disappointment, a pacifier and so on, I have to think about the discussion on the EU Constitution in 2005. I myself once had a discussion on the radio with Femke Halsema, as a strong supporter of the EU Constitution. She said: we will soon have the opportunity as citizens to exercise the right of petition to the European Commission with 1 million signatures. That is already a huge threshold, but it was also a non-binding proposal. It is therefore understandable that a non-binding proposal should be a disappointment. But this is something completely different. We are talking about a very heavy substance, a veto. The citizen can veto a law. This has been unprecedented in Dutch democracy so far. It is an instrument that normally lies only with the Council of State; a spontaneous destruction, to use a beautiful administrative term. The citizen will be able to exercise that right in due course. If there is enough attention and enthusiasm for it, then the people will come to the ballot box and that threshold may also be reached, even once in a while, even if it is only on a unique occasion. It's better than nothing at all. But, of course, more things have to be done. We're not just here with this bill. Direct democracy must be further extended in the Netherlands: the directly elected mayor, the directly elected commissioner of the King and other forms of referenda. The consultative referendum must be able to take its place again, but also the consultative referendum and the initiating referendums, as we know them in Switzerland. On 7 March, for example, there will be an initial referendum on the legal introduction of a burka ban. The federal government opposes this, but the people do want to do so. That is very sensible of the people, and with this you can change the regent. That is a very useful and good instrument. Those can be forms that can be initiated from the Lower House. I also hope that this will be done in order to enable other forms with lower thresholds to initiate direct democracy in addition to this binding corrective referendum. Mr. Chairman. I've taken note of the motion. As I said, I'm not excited about it. The novelle's only gonna cause a delay. That is why I think it would be better to look first at the possibility of the letter on Article 137 of the Constitution and any other possibility of moving the House of Representatives. I am not prepared to bet on a novella which we know will last for four years, which, if it is right, cannot be dealt with within the time limit of the present House of Representatives, which is still active until 12 February, and which clearly does not have a majority in the House of Representatives, unless there are sudden major changes. If that were the case, we would have heard in the short term that groups have spontaneously changed their minds. In short, the PVV Group will support the current legislative proposal as it stands. We hope to move towards a lower outcome threshold in the future or to other more low-threshold forms. What is now lying is at least a step in the right direction and a foot between the door. We need to keep that foot in front of our constituents. Mr President, that is the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u430	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u431	Mr. Chairman. We are also the first to congratulate Mr Raven on his maiden speech. I would also like to thank the Minister and Mr Van Raak for their answers. I was also pleased that some of the answers have also been given. Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that I am also saying something about the threshold of outcome. A number of senators have been looking in my direction. I've been trying to smile back nicely. It has been asked: why the threshold of outcome? Now party mate Van der Graaf has written an explanation. In this explanatory statement, she makes a very clear reference to the ideas of democracy. I said this in the first contribution. If you vote as a people and there will be a cabinet and you have an 80% turnout, then if there is a majority cabinet, this will be borne by at least 40%. If there is a correct referendum, you can imagine within this line of thinking that you want 40% plus one of the votes. I don't want to say that this is the only line of thought. I would like to say, however, that this is, from a constitutional point of view, a clear line which, in any case, also follows the Council of State. I must admit that the Council of State's argument is limited. But this is what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u432	I was just talking about Segers' poison pill, but I meant, of course, the Van der Graaf motion of the Christian Union that caused this threshold of outcome. Has Mrs Van der Graaf, before undermining this binding corrective referendum, also studied the scientific research that shows that this is an unrealistic threshold of outcome which will result in the withdrawal of the electorate? Or was that the intention of the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u433	At that time, at least these three reports were not known. The Remkes report and the Council of State report were of course well known. I would like to make a distinction between the investigations which are actually more about a behavioral and sociological investigation, and the legal and legal argumentation. Those are different types of argumentation. Of course there is a certain relationship between them, but Mrs Van der Graaf has focused on the legal argument. She mentioned two percentages: the 33% rate of the Remkes Commission and the 40% rate of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u434	We have therefore put the Remkes Committee to work for years, with all kinds of people who have really thought about it for a long time. We have also discussed this extensively in the Second Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. I remember doing that last year. I don't know how many years it took; I believe something like seven years. And then you say, "Mwah, I don't have that kind of message. We have just seen something from the Council of State. We are tabling an amendment to make it unfeasible." I don't understand. Why don't you explain? What was your motivation to deviate from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u435	Mr. Verkerk, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u436	Once again, our argument is based on representative democracy and the idea of democratic legitimacy. A government is, in any case theoretically, legitimized by half plus one. At an 80% turnout, it is 40% of the electorate. If such a government comes up with a proposal and there are votes among the people who say we have to adjust it, then I think it is a logical line of thinking to say: well, then it must have similar democratic legitimacy: 40% plus one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u437	Finally, Mr President. I would like to inform Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union under state law that it is working something else in our system. We have the principle of trust. You can also have a minority cabinet. As long as the majority of Parliament has confidence in the government, that government will remain in place. Last week we saw that this was circled by falling immediately before they went to the Lower House. But that is how our state law works in the Netherlands: the principle of trust. It's not correct what you say, that you need 40% plus one. The same applies to the referendum. If, regardless of the party or the political preference, a large majority wants to call a remedially binding referendum to bring back an ill-thought-out law, then surely that should be possible? I'd like to have this corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u438	Thank you. I am now seeing a number of interruptors on this subject. This subject has, of course, been dealt with very extensively earlier today. We are not yet at half the speakers in the second term on the side of the Chamber. Then there will be two more speakers from the proposing government. If you still have urgent, brief, simple questions for Mr Verkerk, I am happy to give you the floor, but not for more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u439	In my speech, I was actually talking about two different approaches. In the story of Mr Verkerk, I can tell you that we have used a criterion of state law. I have the next question to ask him. If you use that criterion and it turns out that it creates a legal instrument that is ineffective, do you not think that this should be prevented under state law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u440	I think this is a very good question. Of course, you have to ask honestly how these two approaches relate. I do not want to run away from that, but I would like to make the following point in this connection. In the view of the Christian Union, representative democracy allows a lot of people to get on their feet if you want to reverse a decision. Then the second. If, as Mr Van Raak said, we can plan it together with the elections and we can handle it in a smart way, then I expect that we will really have a referendum like this a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u441	In addition to Mr Nicolaï, I have the following question to Mr Verkerk. Mr Nicolaï asked: if it comes to 40% through the state-law reasoning, when you say behaviorally that you're not going to make it, shouldn't you have resources there? The State Committee has weighed these two elements against each other, I can tell you. It therefore comes up with a very high outcome threshold of 33,3% according to the scientific findings. That's really the highest thing you could find. That's really the upper limit. The state and behavioral scientific views have been weighed together, so that the representativeness is good and so that there is a high threshold, because representative democracy is paramount. I would ask Mr Verkerk, why this consideration of the state committee could not also apply to the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u442	I understand the reasoning. If it's all right with you, I'd like to take care of one point. Then I would like to come back to why I have at least one question to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u443	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u444	A number of qualifications were expressed in this meeting concerning the proposal of party member Van der Graaf in the Lower House. Those were qualifications that I think should not be in a Chamber like this one, especially if evil intentions are attributed to our party member or our party. I want to say this. Mr. Chairman. In the first place, we have paid attention to the protection of minorities. There are several parties in this Chamber who are fiercely fighting for it. I would like to mention a few in connection with this debate. Those parties are GroenLinks, D66 and the Labour Party. This was a major point for our group. Both the Minister and Van Raak replied. Some of our concerns have been taken away. We also had the following consideration and several people have said that to me. Remember that if there is a corrective referendum as it is now being held, you also need a high threshold of outcome. It already contains an inherent protection of minorities. If you do not make it then, as Mr Van Raak said, you probably have a really big problem as a democracy. Or like the minister said, you're on your way with another law. Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to pin myself down to one percentage point. If we lower that threshold, this is going to weigh more heavily for us. This point will remain an important consideration for us at the second reading of this law. I'll come straight to the novelle. Imagine that the outcome threshold will be lowered, as proposed in the novelle and also called here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u445	If it's all right with you, I'll let you finish your story and then we'll see if there's any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u446	That's fine. My first reaction is: that is not going to happen to our party. I'm consciously saying that's a first reaction. It is entirely linked to our reasoning of constitutional considerations and democratic legitimacy. Mr President, I am almost at the end of my speech. This discussion focuses on the Ostrogorski paradox. I would just like to emphasise that it is a paradox. That has not actually been said in this debate. It's not a contradiction. The interesting thing about a paradox is that eventually you can find a solution somewhere. I cannot help it. It is in the nature of our democracy that we are talking about representative democracy and consensus. We are then talking about the fact that majorities take into account minorities and that all such dialogues exist. That's why I said in my first term, looking at the story of Granny D, looking at the McLuhan pronunciation: it's not just about the purpose, but it's about the journey. When we look at the trip, I enjoyed this day. We have really talked about the quality of democracy, even if we as parties may make different choices, on whatever grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u447	I have a question for Mr Verkerk. He has made it very clear in several terms that the Christian Union is very anxious about the tribulation of minorities. I have heard the initiator react to this as well. Can Mr Verkerk give a concrete example of how he sees it for himself that this binding referendum is seriously leading to these adverse effects? Because there must first be a proposal from the cabinet. Then we'll have to do it through both chambers. Then the emergency brake would be pulled. This would put these minorities at a disadvantage with the binding referendum. So there is a big run to make such a referendum possible and to vote against it in large numbers. Do you have a concrete example of what you fear, so that we understand it better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u448	I mentioned a number of groups. I have spoken about socio-economic minorities, cultural minorities, ethnic minorities, religious minorities, philosophy of life. In fact, I do not really need to give a concrete example, because that is easily taken out of context. But we know of all the contradictions in our society. We know that the absorption capacity of our society for foreigners, for example, comes to a certain limit, or some people think that there is a certain limit to that. We know there are all kinds of discussions about that. We know, if we look at the other side of the road, I am talking about the United States of America, which at some point can blow the whistle. Then I say: for us as Christian Union, the protection of these minorities is of great importance. Many in the Chamber share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u449	Finally, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u450	I understand what minorities are. You're gonna give me some. But I am asking for an example where the emergency brake of the binding referendum, after several proposals, would lead to oppression of minorities. So not for which group per se, but where the emergency brake would lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u451	I am not concerned that the emergency brake leads to the oppression of minorities. But let's say that a bill protecting certain rights of minorities is passed, for example, because the Court converts the non-discrimination grounds into a law in Article 1 of the Constitution, and there will be a referendum that abolishes that law. Our group is unhappy about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u452	I always have great appreciation for the constitutional considerations of the Christian Union, which are somewhat difficult to reconcile with the word of power 'we do not experience that'. Mr Verkerk began by saying today: when I read the analyses of experts, I thought, "Oh, have we thought this through?'. He then refrained from following that line of thinking because of the state-law reasoning, that 40% et cetera, of which he says at the same time: through that whole Ostrogorksi paradox it is not as sure as we thought. For us, it is a puzzle why he does not say: the analyses that we received afterwards are also sanding with what we want under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u453	I think you're touching a good point. Let me say that first. Here's what I'd like to say. When I was talking about a novelle, that was a first reaction. So it's not well thought out, but it's a first reaction. That's what D66 asked for. I gave an initial response to that. We can feel it rubbing too. That is why I welcome the discussions we are having. If it's sanding, how can we try to make that barn as little as possible? Then I also think of the possibilities to organize that incredibly cleverly. But we are left with the point, in all honesty, of democratic legitimacy. I would be happy if we left that barn on the agenda well, because that really has to do with the quality of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u454	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u455	I get that. I appreciate that openness. I take it that we are still thinking on all sides about what exactly we should do next week when we vote. So I get that very well. One last question. Mr Verkerk clearly said in his first reaction: we are not experiencing that. Mr Kox's proposal to remove the threshold by means of a divisional proposal, what is your first reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u456	My first reaction is that I agree with the Minister that it is such an inherent part that it cannot actually be done, and that is really not the intention of the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u457	Thank you. I call Mr Dittrich of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u458	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Raak, the initiator, for his enthusiastic defence of this proposal, within the limits of the possibilities created by amendments from the House of Representatives. Thanks also to the Minister for her reply. Congratulations to Mr Raven of the OSF on behalf of the D66 Group, and good luck here in the Upper Chamber. The essence of this treatment was really the threshold of outcome and the problems caused by the threshold of outcome. It was said by some of the senators: it is impossible to achieve the outcome threshold, there will never be a referendum. I myself said in my first term that the D66 group also thinks that the threshold is very high, that it will be difficult. But if it's going to be held simultaneously with Lower Parliamentary elections, it could still succeed, quite occasionally. From this practice that develops, a kind of renewed enthusiasm can arise, which may result in a new majority for new proposals to remove or reduce that threshold from the Constitution. Whether this is already via the novelle, as put forward by GroenLinks and other groups, I doubt it. That too is my first reaction. I think it is difficult to imagine that in the Lower House suddenly it is said: well, read the three scientists and hear the debate in the Upper Chamber we are going to do it quite differently, we are going to remove that threshold or whatever. I don't think that's very obvious. But who knows? In this debate, we were surprised by a creative proposal by Mr Kox on the division and Article 137 of the Constitution. I do not want to spoil the joy of celebrating, but if I listen to what the Christian Union Group has said in this Chamber, but also in the House of Representatives, that high threshold is really an essential condition for voting for the legislative proposal, I think that will be quite difficult. But I think it's creative. Let us wait and see the Minister's letter, and then we can let him know about it in our voting behaviour next week. I would also like to say that one of the previous Presidents of the United States, Lyndon B. Johnson, answered the question of what the essence of politics is: that you have to count well. That is something that has always emerged in this debate, in this Chamber and in the House of Representatives; if we are to be able to introduce a corrective legislative referendum, we need a two-thirds majority in both Chambers. That's really very important, isn't it? When I look at the groups that voted for the bill in the Lower House, I see that these groups constitute a two-thirds majority in the Upper House. So that's interesting. The composition of the First Chamber does not change, but that of the Second Chamber of course does. All those groups who voted for the bill in the Lower House must vote in favour of it in the Upper House. And then we have a corrective legislative referendum, which we've never had before. We never did it. I would like to see that as some sort of beckoning perspective. This long day began with a comparison of Mr.Ganzevoort about birds. He cited the phoenix that rose out of his ashes. That immediately reminded me of the Song Festival and Conchita Wurst, but perhaps Mr.Ganzevoort had other thoughts about it. I would like to conclude by saying: better one bird in the hand than ten in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u459	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u460	Thank you, Mr President. I am afraid to say this anymore, but I would like to welcome Mr Raven and congratulate him most warmly when we talk about birds, because Mr Ganzevoort is also mentioned. I look forward to the good exchanges of views we'll hopefully have. Thank you, of course, for replying to Mr Van Raak and the Minister. I think Mr Van Raak is smaller than he really is. He keeps calling himself trial counselor. What struck me is that he told me that in 2017 he took another old bill out of the drawer, and in 2020 he fished it out of the trash. Then you wonder, where would that go if there were another third coming? Then where does he get it from? From the shredder, he says, but then it becomes even more cut and paste than until now. I wish him good luck with that. But we do not yet know how this proposal is going to end. My group continues to have questions about the problems of ratification. Legislative proposals may have to wait, but some may not be delayed, so they should be ratified. That's gonna be a lot of frustration. In that context, I also have a question for the Minister, because there is still a bit of uncertainty in my mind about these emergency laws. His emergency laws are or aren't they referendable? Two: the ratification of an emergency law must be speeded up. That's more frustrating, isn't it? Such an emergency law goes into immediately and then we might say by referenda, maybe one and a half years later, that it would not have liked to have. That's putting the horse behind the cart, just to get to another animal. And how are we going to prevent more and more emergency laws from being presented here? We are now being flooded with requests for haste. Of course, we have to deal with this in a good, careful way. I hope the Minister can shed some light on that. The Minister also said that the cabinet would of course be involved in the ratification if all this were to continue. In a subtlety she said: although we are of course missionary and that needs to be involved. Maybe she can explain what she meant by that. That was a little bit about the content. Now let's get the numbers. We have talked a few times today about an outcome threshold and the like. I have actually only heard two solutions. One solution was put forward by Mr Van Raak. He says, "Just tie it to elections." I have heard the second solution from the Minister, namely: try to make multiple referendums happen simultaneously. Well, they're both, I think, causing a lot of trouble. I do have some very serious questions about Mr Kox's creative solution to split up in second reading, so to speak, by means of Article 137 of the Constitution. It is precisely because we have all found that it is such an essential part of the overall legislation that I think it is important to clarify it. And in the interrupting debate with Mr Kox there was already a hint of a letter, but I hope that the Minister will be able to say in a moment that we will have a little more clarity before next week on whether or not that is possible in this case. Finally, or almost finally, Mr President. There's, of course, a motion for a novelle. I believe that everyone can judge what the SGP thinks about the legislative proposal, which I have made sufficiently clear. With regard to this novelle, I think it is the royal way that a minister or a draftsman of a law decides, on the basis of a debate, to say that he is doing more wise to come up with a novelle. If Mr Van Raak is not going to do so in his second term, it may be that next week the Chamber will force the petitioner into a novelle. And if he is about to dissuade that motion, then next week, following the adoption of that motion, there will undoubtedly be someone who will say: what are you going to do with it? And then he says, "I'm not gonna do it." We know what Mr Kox normally does with motions that are not being carried out: they start immediately with a motion of censure. But he won't do that to Mr Van Raak again. Well, in short, I think we're gonna end up in a huge trap with this route. So my proposal would be to at least not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u461	And that puts you at the end of your speech, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u462	I have one final comment to make. Would you like me to make it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u463	Well, your time is actually up, so don't like it, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u464	Then I'll be very brief. I have quoted Mr Holdijk today, but also once, in a small debate with Mr Verkerk, Green of Prinsterer. And once again, I say why I am not in favour of this referendum law, because I follow Green van Prinsterer in it, saying: "I do not want people's government to be affected!'. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the extra time. Green from Prinster can always add extra time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u465	You can, Mr. Schalk. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u466	Yes. It always gets exciting when it comes to Mr Schalk's desire, but we'll let that rest for now. I also read a question to me: how exactly does it work with such a novelle, if the author or defender here does not want it? That's a question to him at first. But a novelle does not necessarily require the initiator or the government to submit it; in principle, any member of the House of Representatives can submit a novelle. So the moment Mr Van Raak says "well, that's obviously a motion, but I'm not going to implement it," there are undoubtedly other members of the House of Representatives who do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u467	That may well be possible, but that could mean that if a new one is voted on, is it certain that the law will no longer be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u468	Thank you, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u469	Because, Mr President, perhaps just for the sake of clarity...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u470	I thought it was a cliff hanger, but Mr. Ganzevoort is coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u471	Because part of the motion is the decision not to vote on it until that novelle arrives. That's what we normally do with a novelle, then we postpone voting on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u472	Okay, but that means that you're going to ask to put the novelle to the vote first, of course, or the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u473	Yes, we will certainly press for that motion to be put to the vote before the bill, otherwise there will be no point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u474	Okay, thank you. That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u475	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Raven on his maiden speech. Very welcome to this room. We hope to be able to work with him as a group of the Labour Party. Thank you to the initiator, Mr Van Raak, who has indeed defended his proposal with fire. And thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. It is, of course, special that we hold a debate in the First Chamber on such an important subject. It is about representative democracy. There is also a review role of the Upper House. It is about a constitutional proposal that has been dealt with in the House of Representatives, it is about looking at it again. I therefore believe that the First Chamber should have every freedom to look at all aspects. It has often been said: yes, but you must also take into account that two-thirds majority. That is a secondary consideration for me. Of course you have to take it into account. But first of all, what does this proposal do, why is it desirable, how does it work in practice and is it feasible? We see two people sitting behind the table here, I have said it before, one as a counselor and the other as an advisor. Although the defense was incredibly beautiful, it seems a bit like it didn't go very well. Mr Van Raak also said that this threshold should not have been applied to me, and I think that the level of it is too high anyway, but yes it is. The minister's keeping himself a little more on the level, because she's an advisor. If you have to talk about something that is essential for the shaping of parliamentary democracy, then it is difficult that there are two people who do not really fully defend it, who guide and advise it more. I think that a great deal of attention has been paid to the threshold of outcome. Many say it's too high. Several experts have called them unfeasible and unrealistic. Mr Verkerk said: it is also very important that we take a good look at the constitutional part here. I very much agree with him. I appreciate his consideration of putting that aspect so prominently. However, I have already hinted at the fact that, of course, a state committee has put these constitutional considerations in addition to behavioral scientific considerations and looked at what is the best compromise there. At that time, he chose to give strong advice. That opinion was unanimously delivered, also by a member with the Christian Union as a background, who defended that proposal for a corrective legislative referendum. To achieve this, they have said: because it is indeed an important addition to representative democracy, that threshold must also be high. No one, not even our group, says that this threshold should not be firm. Only, according to most experts, the threshold of outcome currently contained in the proposal is too high. In fact, all the experts we have heard say that it is far too high and unrealistic. As a result, a pacifier referendum is soon being mentioned. Now all kinds of solutions have been devised. That has just been referred to. Same as the elections to the House of Representatives. The discussion shows that this is actually unrealistic. Once or twice, that will happen, but usually not. That's not in the proposal. Another solution was: more referendums one day. Yeah, you can do that, but you can't control that. It's an initiative from the people, so you can't just say: well, then so be it. If it happens to be two initiatives close to each other, you can keep them on the same day. However, it is far from certain that no investigation will indicate that this will result in a turnout similar to the turnout at the national elections, which always raises the question of national power. That always leads to a much higher turnout. It has itself been said that a distinction must be made between large and small laws. Big laws aren't that fast and they'll come into the process a little later. Perhaps Mr Van Raak could explain again whether that distinction is realistic? The Minister also said: a second reading and, at the same time, if you think it is not going to work out a new version in a first reading. So you're working on the second reading of this proposal and you're already gonna change that. When you're doing that, it already shows you've taken something you're right about saying isn't right. And that's a little bit above the discussion here. Mr Kox proposed a creative solution: the division based on Article 137 of the Constitution. The Minister said: I do not think that is very realistic. The main proposal is not in it. It will be an imperfect proposal and therefore probably not realistic. I do not know by whom, but a letter has been promised on Mr Kox's proposal. Well, let's wait and see. We'll take that letter into account in our final consideration. But that does not mean that you cannot at the same time argue for the novelle as we did in the motion tabled by Mr Ganzevoort. It is said about this novella that at the same time it leads to four years' delay. Mr Van der Linden has already said that it may be possible to speed things up. Why couldn't this be tried? I also really call on you to try to realize that novelle, taking into account the reasonableness of Members of Parliament who are open to new arguments. Against the possible delay of four years, you may also have a pacifier referendum for four years. I wouldn't really want that. Finally. The Labour Party's group is very much in favour of a corrective legislative referendum. I said the same thing in my speech this morning. We would have liked to give our vote to the original legislative proposal of the initiators. However, it has changed so much that you really have to ask yourself whether you still have to support this. A far too high threshold makes the referendum in fact impossible, shows distrust of the citizens and has thus become a recipe for disappointment. An improvement in that referendum law is therefore very much needed. We do not want a pacifier and hence our call for a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u477	Are you with that at the end of your speech, Mr. Koole?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u478	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u479	Mr Koole's plea is understandable, but he also knows that the chances of the novelle being dealt with and adopted on time are extremely low. Then it means four years' delay. What will this Chamber lose if we start with one, in his eyes and in the eyes of several members, imperfect referendum and use the time for second reading to see what can be done? We will have time to bring additional legislative proposals across the street together with as broad a support as possible, so that after those four years with an imperfect referendum, but that is there, we can improve the referendum. You would almost quote Den Uyl that the race of sinful reformists should go step by step. When it comes to the correct, binding referendum, Mr Koole, it must go one step at a time. Because all the other methods haven't worked. So why don't we give that a chance? And one last question: can't Mr Koole look at my way in the next few days? There have also been experts involved, experts have written about it and some of them have once been here in this Chamber. Can Mr Koole come up with a creative solution so that the House of Representatives, in case he does not decide on the novelle in this Chamber in time, can still vote on the bill as it stands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u480	First of all, about the moment for a novelle. I have not for nothing in the first round of questions already suggested the possibility of a novelle that was on 14 December with the hope that the initiator would use it to get to work quickly to see if something can be done with it. Now it is later, but I do not exclude Mr Van der Linden from saying that this is not possible. Even if that is not possible, it may still be possible, but then it will cost those four years extra. If your proposal is followed by an imperfect proposal, you end up getting the same. But you're asking a lot of questions. From the Supreme Court, which has to concentrate on the content of something, ask you to agree to something that she absolutely does not approve of in the majority. Most people have problems with that high threshold. You're going to approve something in substance while at the same time you're saying it's not right. I find that rather peculiar. I don't think you should just ask me that so you have that. You'll have a pacifier referendum and we'll see if...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u481	It's gonna be a bit of a repeat of moves now, Mr. Koole, so if you can keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u482	I have already said it and I would like to say it again: Mr Kox's letter is going to wait and we are going to consider it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u483	I would ask Mr Koole not to wait alone. He praises the role of experts and actually says that we should follow experts on that point. I would say that there are also experts in this field who have written manuals on this subject. You have to look a little bit, because it's not the sexiest subject, but I invite Mr Koole to take a very serious look at this and consider whether that second method might be more promising than that very fast novelle that has almost 100% chance of failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u484	Mr Kox says: take it seriously and listen to experts. I always put the content first. Of course we will see what experts think; we always do. That is self-evident to me, and I will certainly do so with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u485	Mr Nicolaï, another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u486	I listened with interest to Mr Koole. Actually, we agree. I was also very happy with those investigations that were done at the time. We agree that, on the basis of the expert reports, we must say that we cannot accept this. But my question is why, precisely because there will be a second reading, we cannot create the room to improve the proposal, without wasting time, by now saying that we agree and vote in favour. Everyone knows by now that we are only in favour of giving it a chance to make it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u487	That's not entirely a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u488	What would we lose if the Labour Party also voted in favour and said: okay, we give the proposal a chance and see the process come back afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u489	That wasn't entirely a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u490	It's not quite a new answer either. What are we losing? We see a great risk of losing credibility if you think it is a bad proposal and still vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u491	Thank you. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u492	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to congratulate Mr Raven. Welcome to our midst. I had the same inconvenience as other speakers have already said. We have a debate, in which a trial counselor and a consultant are present, which we are talking to. However, we talk more with each other and the arena is not fully equipped. I would almost argue in favour of a second interrupting microphone, so that we can also debate each other. Nevertheless, Mr Van Raak has certainly defended the proposal from the counsellors' role. In my direction, he did so along a political line. In any case, he had followed the VVD view on the referendum since Cort van der Linden. Thank you for that. For me, the most important thing is that at the moment Lower House Groups and Upper House Groups are all on the same page. There are no expectations, as far as I'm concerned. In fact, it did not end up in the electoral programme. That was partly due to the unfortunate name. In the debate in the Party, the involvement of citizens in front of legislative processes and policy developments has been discussed, and not only in such a long time afterwards, which we have been talking about all day. I think both points need to be taken into account. As a politician should have done, in the substantive defence there was some selective shopping in the opinion of the Council of the State. It has indeed said that the proposal is not incompatible with representative democracy, but that you should write down the pros and cons very well. I think I have said in my story that the disadvantages in particular have not yet come out in a great way and that you were very much triggered in the debate on the threshold of outcome. You didn't have much time to deal with it yourself, but that's what the Minister did: the side of disinformation and people getting along with something like that. The Minister weighs all that slightly lighter than I weigh it. Here lies the link with the outcome threshold. Personally, I don't think the outcome threshold is too high. We have been aligned in the debate almost all the time, as if we all think it is too high. I just said he's not getting much. This means something for the process and for the expectations of people who are involved: if they don't make it, then perhaps the discontent is even greater. In that sense, I used it. I have taken note with interest of the dilemma that I really felt among the advocates: how do you deal with the threshold of outcome? Better one bird in the hand, or a pacifier? When I thought I had an overview, a third way came, which is not quite clear to me yet. I'll wait for it with interest. As an observer, I did find that we were very much moved in the House of Representatives. I'm thinking about something in reverse. Imagine that the House of Representatives would feel that way about us and the First Chamber would now use Article 137 of the Constitution, then I think we would find that somewhat unpleasant. Apart from this procedural point, I have something to say on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u493	Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u494	I have read the Acts of the House of Representatives, and in particular the amendments. In my view, the split discussion was conducted there in almost the opposite way. Mr Van Raak said: put that in the implementing legislation rather than in the Constitution. The Christian Union said: no, we want that in the Constitution; we do not want it split. If we go there now with this suggestion, I wonder whether the split will take place in this political reality. But I leave that to those who want to go that way. I saw the motion. In view of the fact that there are at least three options in the air and another letter from the Minister, I will look at what advice I will give to my group next week on the motion. I have already made clear how I will advise on the final proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u495	Did you finish your speech with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u496	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u497	I hear Mr Meijer talking about moving in the House of Representatives and that he is not doing that. Does Mr Meijer ever move into voters? You may think as a VVD now that you're high in the polls that you've got the booty, and that Forum has made a mess of it, but that's temporary. Last year, or two years ago, it has been shown that new parties can emerge very quickly when voters are systematically ignored and sent into the woods with tricks or killer amendments. My question to Mr Meijer is, therefore, whether he sometimes moves in the electorate, which is becoming increasingly out of control. What you have achieved through these cynical moves through the Christian Union is that the voters are going to lose much more. How is that going to crystallize in our democracy? It will then be out of balance, as your party colleague Remkes said in the report. How does Mr Meijer see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u498	There is a little too much power in my mind; as if I had had some influence on amendments by the Christian Union in the House of Representatives. I notice that, when it comes to Mr Remkes, it is always said that he is my party mate. This morning, at the first term, you had other obligations. Unfortunately, you couldn't be here. That's when I think we talked about the VVD concept. I think I'm definitely moving into voters. The first part of my speech was about social discontent and how to deal with it. The fact that we are choosing another means does not mean that we do not see the problem or that we do not want to do anything about it. But I am going to go a little further if I repeat my speech from the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u499	We're not gonna do that. Mr. Otten wasn't there, so I imagine he didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u500	I've been following it, Mr. Chairman. I've taken note of that. I don't hear an answer. The voter is going to drop out because not you, but your party with the cooperation of the Christian Union, creates unrealistic thresholds for outcome. That's gonna get the voter to drop out. That's all taking way too long. My question is, how are you going to solve that? Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u501	A brief answer, Mr. Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u502	We indicated this morning that we are not in favour of referenda as a means. In my opinion, I have just repeated that I have indicated to the disadvantages that you are creating disappointment at such a high threshold of outcome. How am I gonna fix that? I am going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u503	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u504	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on behalf of the CDA Group to Mr Raven with his swearing-in and also with his maiden speech. Good luck in this room! As I said in the case of interruption, Mr Van Raak calls himself a trial counselor, but he has also shown himself to be a champion of the bill and has argued here with a great deal of reason why his bill is worth adopting. Occasionally, I have to admit, he's a little elusive. We also discussed the fact that in the Netherlands we are dealing with a decentralised unitary state. On this point, the amendment to the proposal has really caused a problem. I have already put that forward, but I will do it again very briefly, by asking Mr Van Raak whether he can say anything about it. He says that it is precisely the intention to leave it to local authorities to decide whether they want a referendum. However, this is also the starting point of Mr Van Raak's view that a number of decisions at local or provincial level are not eligible for a referendum. That is precisely the point where, in my group's view, that amendment did not go well, which means that there is a major problem in the legislative proposal on this point. There has been a long talk about the high threshold of outcome. Let me just say this straight away: I think that Mr Koole, as well as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and other political groups, welcomes the fact that, although they basically embrace the referendum, they have important consequences for the fact that you are dealing here with a dead sparrow. The motion is sympathetic in that respect, but I would also ask for a little understanding from the authors that my group cannot support the motion, because the law would then come back here and probably by those groups, the motion would be carried out, would be supported, while within my group there would be fundamental objections to the referendum. I would like to suggest that this is perhaps very bold of you to take with you the constitutional defect that I have just noticed in the repair, if you have started to work on the legislative proposal that is now before you. I have been somewhat critical of the Minister. If she says that it will not be easy to stop a law through a referendum because the threshold of outcome is quite high, then the government does not recognise that you are committing a great deal of violence to the quality of the Constitution. There are groups here who say that it is a sort of organic process, let us vote in favour now, and then it may well be done in one way or another. But the government is also here to monitor the quality of the Constitution. On that point, precisely because of the scientific advice requested by this Chamber, I would have liked the government to have seen a change in its appreciation of this bill, perhaps even expect it, because it is also, and the Minister is responsible for that, doing more harm than good when it comes to people's confidence in politics. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u505	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u506	Mr Doornhof spoke about people's confidence in politics. I do not know whether you have taken note of what your party colleague Pieter Omtzigt has just said across the street in the debate on the fall of the cabinet. He has literally said that the opposition forces in Dutch democracy are no longer functioning. The Netherlands is a banana monarchy. Party members are only concerned with their party and not with the electorate. The voter only gets in the picture during an election campaign. Your party colleague and prominent CDA member just said all this in the House of Representatives. Now, I think his analysis is spot-on. The Remkes Committee is coming up with a solution to how we can channel this somewhat through a binding corrective referendum with a realistic threshold of outcome. You voted against that law. You're in favour of a higher outcome threshold. How does the CDA intend to channel this dissatisfaction, which apparently also lives at the top of your own party? I haven't heard that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u507	I have some doubts about what I can or can't bring forward now. I recall the debate we had on 4 February last year. That is where the report of the State Committee has been discussed in detail. On the contrary, my group has endorsed the problem analysis and many of the solutions in clear terms. The question is whether this referendum, especially in the form it is now in, does not make the problem defined in the Remkes report much greater. That is the position of the CDA that I am now putting forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u508	I don't hear an answer. Then how do you see the disconnect between the voters and the politicians? The Ostrogorski paradox, it's all remembered. But how's the CDA gonna fix it? Because it's just there and it won't go away if you're going to counter the voter with ridiculously high outcome thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u509	Let's talk about whether structural change is always the best thing for voters. There has also been talk of giving extra weight to the preferred vote and of choosing a lot more as a voter within a kind of "district" your representatives here in The Hague. Those are all structural changes. We should not expect all of that, but it is changes that bring politics closer to the citizens. But with a proposal that is now in place, you achieve the opposite, apart from the constitutional objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u510	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u511	If that's how you do it, it's self-fulfilling prophecy. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u512	Then I give the floor to Mr Frentrop, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An interim conclusion on my part: is the outcome threshold too high? Yeah, say all independent scientists. And yes, everyone who loves the referendum says. And no, say all the parties that are actually opposed to a referendum. There were no substantive arguments as to why 40% would be better than 30%. That high threshold is bad for two reasons. One is in advance and the other is afterwards. The first is the high threshold that prevents a referendum from coming soon. This means that the disciplinary effect of the possibility of a referendum towards the legislator will disappear. There isn't one. I very much agree with Mr Crone that this high threshold is a recipe for disappointment afterwards. People get a referendum and then they don't make it. In short, what we have here is the worst referendum law in the world. It's only good for people who don't want a referendum. We've heard a cure from the minister and the petitioner. They say: do it now around the Lower House elections. But I don't think anyone really thinks that cure is convincing. This doesn't solve the problem. Only D66 thought it might help a little, if I understood Mr. Dittrich correctly. Then we'll get to the novelle. We might be able to do something with that. Our trial counselor doesn't want to go to the Lower House for a novelle, I understand. Other parties may want to do so themselves. Mr. Kox says a novel takes four more years. He implicitly thinks that the next cabinet will make its time. We'll see. He had a plan B: splitting the second reading. Our advisor gives little chance and will record it in a letter, but we do not have to have high expectations of that. Mr. Nicolaï comes with a third way. He says, "Don't do anything." If you don't do something, you won't lose. You can always vote it out at second reading. That's basically the tone: if we just agree now, you've got something. Better than nothing. That's what I hear from Mr. Kox, Mr. Van Hattem of the PVV and actually from Mr. Dittrich of D66: go on with this very bad referendum bill, because at least you'll have something. I also agree with what Mr Crone said in this regard. Can you now agree to something that you consider to be a very bad law in the majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u514	I think you mean Mr Koole. Mr Crone spoke last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u515	Yes, Mr Koole. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u516	She's got a big forest with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u517	This is about the Constitution and it is about the heart of democracy. Those are the subjects we deal with as First Chamber: we deal with them carefully. I don't feel like saying right now that we have to accept something that isn't right. So I also understand why the idea is to try that novelle anyway. I would like to make a final comment to my colleagues. The Forum for Democracy, my party, has just been set up out of disappointment about referendums. In fact, you have the question in front of you: do you want more of that kind of disappointment or do you want to try it with a novelle? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u518	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u519	I actually hear Mr Frentrop of the Forum for Democracy say that we would rather not have a referendum at all than at least a limited referendum option, but a very difficult one, namely a people's veto. The people can veto a law. There is a high threshold, but the possibility is there. Now Forum says: we would rather not have a referendum at all over the next four years. Would it not be much better, as Mr Nicolaï has argued, to take that step now, so that at least there is this possibility, this foot in the door, and to look for additional possibilities, with consultative, consultative, consultative and initiating referenda, so that we can at least supplement that? We don't need constitutional changes for that. Then we can at least take this step. What prevents Forum from taking this step towards the binding corrective referendum in the Constitution? Instead, Forum says: no referendum at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u520	I'm not quite out of it, either. I've been trying to outline the trade-offs. I explained why this is a very bad law. I believe that anyone who likes referenda will say: this is the worst referendum law in the world. I think all those in favour of a referendum will agree on that. Then the question is whether we should say: then we should do so, because then at least we will have a bad referendum and then we can move forward four years in the hope that there will be something better. Or are you saying: I want to be clean, I am not sitting here for the form, I am not here to approve a bill that says "referendum," but which is not a referendum at all; I am doing what I am in the First Chamber and I am going for the quality of the laws and the strengthening of democracy in the Netherlands? Then we shouldn't do it. The term pacifier has already been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u521	But you just said all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u522	That's the trade-off I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u523	That consideration was already presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u524	I have to say, then, that Mr Frentrop of the Forum for Democracy is more in the frame of the Labour Party: it is a pacifier et cetera. No, it's a very heavy veto there. The threshold is far too high. That's true, but at least there's a possibility. Now we have to note that Forum chooses not to submit a referendum option to the voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u525	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u526	Do you not want to lay this down in the Constitution and give the electorate the chance to at least make the effort to get over that, albeit difficult, threshold and if it is necessary to vote away the laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u527	Without repetition, Mr. Frentrop, briefly the same answer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u528	No, I'm gonna give you another answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u529	All the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u530	I'm gonna think about this a lot, because I really think it's a dilemma. I can say that I have agreed for the first time this evening throughout the debate with everything the PvdA has suggested. This is also a very new vision at Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u531	I think it's time to finish. Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u532	Mr. Chairman. First of all, compliments for the passionate process guidance by the initiator. Thank you also to the Minister for the advisory role. Mr. Raven, congratulations on your maiden speech. You know how to choose your debut matches. The threshold of outcome, that is what it is really about. Is it feasible? The initiator thinks that this is the case in Parliamentary elections. That is what we think, but I would like to make a few comments on some of the arguments that have been mentioned. The initiator, Mr Van Raak, said: usually the initial period of a cabinet is not a period with many laws. Excuse me? The abolition of the consultative referendum has gone through very quickly. It could only make this happen more quickly. With a new cabinet formation, knowing that the acid comes first and then the sweet, then even more is boarded up on the front, after which legislation is introduced as quickly as possible, and then we can say: we are not going to wait for new elections to have such a big law tested. So we're skeptical about that. Then there is the debate itself. There is broad support for the referendum itself, for the instrument. Is repairing the outcome threshold possible? That is desirable. A lot of members of this Chamber want that. Is it feasible in terms of time? That's the question. Is it feasible in terms of politics? I think it is also an important point at the novelle, how it works precisely in terms of time. Is that something that can be done very quickly, or is that something that takes months? How soon will that be possible if everyone puts their shoulders on it? Support in the First and Second Chambers. We are talking here about the state of law and the making of our own considerations, but the threshold of outcome is simply a very political choice. It is striking that parties who are intrinsically opposed to the referendum have also supported other arguments of a technical nature, versus a number of parties who are intrinsically in favour of the referendum and the amendment that concerns the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u533	I would like to ask Mr van der Linden about this novelle. It's a bill, so it also goes to the Council of State for advice. Do you really think all this could be arranged by mid-February?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u534	I think so, because I believe that all the substantive reflections on this matter are now well known. It's just the height of the threshold. It's also in the committee's report. Everything has changed over that. It's actually more about political choice. So I think the impact of a Council of State Weighting is no longer so important in this process. The question is: who are sensitive to this adjustment in the Lower House? It is actually only a limited number of parties where this could play. The VVD, the CDA and the SGP have made it very clear that they are at all opposed to the referendum. D66, the Christian Union and 50PLUS supported the amendment and the referendum in the House of Representatives, while the other parties eventually voted against the proposal. So I think those three parties have the key to see if that route is passable at all. Mr. Chairman. I don't think we should make things too complicated here either. I believe that the initiator, supported by a number of colleagues and colleagues here, will be able to inform those three parties in the House of Representatives tonight or tomorrow whether they are prepared to reconsider their decision. They can check the deliberations. The experts' reports have undoubtedly already been taken. There's talk. We think we can do that super fast. We'll know what we're up to, too. If they say resolutely, "No, we don't. All these rethinks, we're not getting started on that," then we know right away that that route is closed. I think there are three uncertainties now. One: how does the novelle work technically and in terms of time? How fast can that be? Can Mr. Kox's goat path? How does that work? And what is the political balance between these three parties, Christian Union, D66 and 50PLUS, in the House of Representatives? Are they prepared to reconsider? Those are the three uncertainties we are dealing with now. Those uncertainties can be solved quickly. We're getting an explanation of how it works with the novelle. Actually, I'm curious about that. I ask the Minister how that works. Is it gonna be stopped and then it's gonna come back including novelle? How does such a novella work technically in relation to the present proposal? Hold it and then vote later? We have a letter about Mr. Kox's goat path. The political choice is a matter of now, tonight or tomorrow, picking up the phone, sitting together and saying: boys, are we going to change this, yes or no? Then the First Chamber will know what she's up to. I think we should get on with that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u535	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. Finally, Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you all for the congratulations. Thank you also to the two representatives, the initiator and the minister, for defending and explaining the legislative proposal before us. Mr. Chairman. At first I raised a warning about the adverse side effects that often occur in referenda. It looks like an elephant in this room, because I don't hear much about it. The Minister has gone into it for a moment, but I think that is a bit naive. The example I gave about disinformation really concerns the world that is currently on fire. I'm referring to the Brexit lies. There has been a great turnout and with all kinds of lies a certain decision has been made that has fundamentally destabilized a Western society, a Western democracy. In the first instance, I pointed this out. I asked the Minister whether we could at least make sure that the rule of law in the Netherlands is guaranteed in the future, with conditions for such a referendum. I think it is good to hear from the Minister in the second term how these disadvantages can be avoided. If we do not stand up for our rule of law and are accepted as adverse consequences of referendums, as is now the case throughout the world, then that is a very important problem. Think of the tweets in America I mentioned. A solution to this problem must be found. I think it's an undesirable side effect that requires a lot of attention. In the second reading of the amendment of the constitution, I will also look very strongly at this on behalf of the OSF. When I say that I am going to look at the second reading, that also means that I could be positive about the first reading. I think we have heard from a number of speakers that we are now on the threshold. The following questions are on the agenda. Are we counting the buttons? Are we going for the next best solution? Or do we just send it back to square one? That last one means we've been a lot of years. I think that would be a shame. Count those buttons. Get to the next best solution. Ask for attention to be paid to the implementation issues that will be assessed in the second reading of the Constitutional Amendment. On that basis, we will take a final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u537	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then I propose a short five-minute suspension. Is that enough for Mr Van Raak and the Minister? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u538	I give the floor to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u539	I am happy to do so, Mr President, but with an empty room I am afraid that my words do not reach the people who have asked the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u540	Perhaps you could start by answering the questions of the spokesmen who are already in the Chamber, such as Mr Verkerk and Mr Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u541	My contribution will be brief, but I must address it to... I can do the Members who are not present... I cannot do the answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u542	We'll wait a moment. Perhaps you could start with Mr Schalk or Mr Verkerk. The members know we've started. We even started a few minutes ago. There's been a call, too. So I suggest we get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u543	No, I can't give answers to people who aren't there. That's what I need. I have to have that discussion. I'm not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. Members come or they don't come, but I'm not gonna answer any members that aren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u544	They're all coming in now, so why don't you start? They're here. There's been a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u545	There's no bell downstairs, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u546	Then I'm going to suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u547	I shall reopen the sitting and give the floor to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the patience. Sometimes there's a moment. At a time like this, you have to make a choice. At a time like this, you can either say yes or you can say no. That momentum for the referendum is now. I would like to remind the President how that referendum, that law, once came into my hands. That was because parties in the Lower House had passed... GroenLinks, Party of Labour and D66........................................................................................................................................................ That was actually the umpteenth time that the referendum went under party politics. What I chose then is not to make a SP proposal or a Ronald-of-Touch proposal. I have chosen to look: can we make a referendum with which a large majority of the States-General, the First and Second Chambers can live and work? I based it not on what I had in mind, but on a committee set up by this Chamber, on the initiative of this Chamber, which analysed our parliamentary system, our democracy. Why did this room do that? Because this Chamber felt that our democracy was in crisis. It's not going well. Today we also had a special debate in the Lower House. There is now a time when thinking about that referendum has changed. You can see that a lot of people, over 70% of the population, want that referendum. You can see that commentators, scientists who were previously opposed, are now in favour of that. You can see that in parties where it seemed almost impossible, there are now serious discussions, in the vein of: yes, but perhaps that is a good idea, because that is an instrument that the state committee believes can provide an answer to the gap, the lack of trust. This cannot be done with a referendum of the SP, with a referendum of GroenLinks, with a referendum of the Labour Party, the PVV or any other party. This can only be done in the form of a referendum which can count on broad support in the Second and First Chambers. That's what I'm trying to do to get a law like that. I was surprised by the way that went in the Lower House, with the attitude of the parties. I told you, it was almost "senatorial" as it was. On cooperation: the minister is from the coalition, I am from the opposition, the minister is from D66, I am from the SP. Well, there are few things we agree on, and certainly not about administrative renewal. And yet we've found each other and we've seen how we can make a law that's been widely worn and that can work. Today I am standing here in the Knight's Room, in the middle of the First and Second Chambers, and I noticed that the debate was somewhat different. Actually, more like usual in the Lower House. Many people said: I think the referendum should be like this, and I think it should be like this, and I think it should be like this, but it should always have been different. I agreed with almost all the comments. Only: the referendum I agree with deeply in my heart will never come. The referendum you may dream of in your heart will never come. The task we have to the people, to the people, is to make a referendum that can come. Referendums that can't get there have been enough. Can we look at a referendum that can come? Then the House of Representatives has amended an outcome threshold. That was not my plan; for me there is no threshold at all, and certainly not in the Constitution. But it was put in there. Does that make things easy? No. But all the spokesmen who say that it makes a referendum impossible, they are wrong, because holding a referendum with a threshold of outcome has nothing to do with it. That has to do with the number of signatures. You're gonna decide how many signatures that could be. When 400 000, 500,000, 300,000 signatures are collected, there will be a referendum, then there will be a referendum, then there will be a referendum. Then we are faced with an extremely high threshold of outcome. I have been thinking with the Minister about how this referendum can work. This has been considered and said: let us organise these referendums as much as possible at the same time as elections to the House of Representatives. That will not always be possible, but let us express that aim and let us work it out in the implementing law that is yet to come. That's where you can capture that. Then you can say when, when not. That is all work in progress, work that remains to be done, which this Chamber can already give directions to and which this Chamber can ultimately say yes or no to. So: yes, that referendum can come. Could there be a referendum with a high turnout, a clear result, but which does not meet that high threshold? Yeah, that could happen. What is the value of the referendum? The law will not automatically lapse. Then it is up to politics, to all the political groups of all the parties represented here, to see what they are doing with the outcome of that referendum. In fact, you could say, somewhat captivatedly, that we are introducing a binding referendum when the outcome threshold is reached, and that is practical. If you organize that with Lower House elections, it's even practically good to do. And if that doesn't happen, if the threshold is not reached, you actually have a consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u549	My question to Mr Van Raak goes back to a few sentences. At some point he said that the Lower House actually plays the Upper Chamber and the Upper Chamber actually plays the Lower Chamber. That was to notice that it goes here "I find this and I find that." Does Mr Van Raak now believe that there has been no attempt here to look at the matter with different views, whether we can improve the quality of legislation or at least talk about the substance of the matter? Why does he call it that we look more like the House of Representatives? Then he said, quite generalizingly, that all people say that there can be no referendum. I said in an earlier interruption that it is not a question of holding a referendum, because that number of signatures is still going to be collected. It is a question of whether a referendum can be held with a majority for a vote against, so that it is not a recipe for disappointment. That's the point. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Raak what he means when he says that the First Chamber plays Second Chamber and what he means when he says that all the people here in the First Chamber say that it cannot be held while it can be held. That wasn't the question. It is about whether it is a feasible referendum, in the sense that there really is a possibility that you can reject the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u550	Two things. Mr Koole has said a great many times: it is a pacifier, pacifier, pacifier, a pacifier, a pacifier, a pacifier, a pacifier. I say that a referendum can be held. If we do this together with Lower Parliamentary elections, that outcome threshold is very real. If the House of Representatives decides in exceptional cases not to do so, that's up to the House of Representatives, then you actually have a consultative referendum, but then you don't have a referendum. That's what I want to say. The second point is that Mr Koole is right to ask whether it is possible to change this. Mr Verkerk said that the Christian Union is not going through that. I have heard clearly from the representatives of the CDA and the VVD that there is no movement on that side. In two or three weeks, the House of Representatives will be recessed. There's no movement on the other side. No senator here has picked up a signal that there are groups that want to reconsider it. Then it's actually not so neat to give someone an impossible assignment. Then that's an impossible assignment. If the assignment is: rule a new law within two weeks... A new law is not possible within two weeks; so is Mr Koole. It even has to go to the Council of State, so that's not possible at all. And then you have to deal with groups that have amended it and have already said that this is fundamental to them. This applies not only to Mr Verkerk's Christian Union, but also to Mr Meijer's VVD and also to Mr Doornhof's CDA, which applies to those parties. I can't change that, in two weeks, with a bill that goes to the Council of State. Well, Mr Koole should know better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u551	My question is not about that. My question was about why he felt that Upper House members are currently playing Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u552	Because I noticed that after the publication of this report, which came about on the initiative of the First Chamber, there was an attitude in the House of Representatives: this is perhaps a possibility............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And prior to that debate in the House of Representatives, I felt unusually strong that parties were willing to think, work together and see if we could turn this into something, whether we could make this a law that has sufficient support and yet can work. Is that possible? What can we do together? I've seen that ghost a little less here in the Senate, in the Chamber of Reflection. That's okay, that's your right. You're all people's representatives, like me. I can see at the end of the debate, after a day of debate, that the atmosphere is different, and that I found the atmosphere I read in the House of Representatives more senatorial, and that the atmosphere I found here was less senatorial. Mr Koole may point that to me, but we are both representatives of the people. I've explained the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u553	My question to Mr Van Raak is also about "Second Chamber plays First Chamber and First Chamber plays Second Chamber" et cetera. If I am not mistaken, Mr Van Raak was 15 or 20 years old a few years ago, at a young age. Well, not many people can say that to hold such a position so young. But times have changed, I would like to say to Mr Van Raak, also in the Upper House. Maybe you're a little homesick for old times' sake, when things were a little different around here. But of course, new movements have emerged. Millions of voters, well, also out of discontent with existing politics, are going to do other things. I heard you say this a number of times now, and that also struck me in the first term when I said that we could change the number of signatures in the First Chamber, et cetera, et cetera. I do not think we have the right to amend it. Maybe it was in your time, but I didn't think it was. But how should we do that, I ask Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u554	For starters, you can have anything. I'm a humble defender here on behalf of the House of Representatives. You can have anything. The threshold for obtaining signatures will have to be worked out in an implementing law. That remains to be determined. That will be done on the initiative of the House of Representatives, that is true. Many groups here are represented in both Chambers; you may be represented later. And then it's up to the States-General to determine what those thresholds are. And that requires a two-thirds majority, so it is not so that a random majority, an accidental coalition, can determine that. This will also require broad support, in order to set that threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u555	Yes, but let's say that the House of Representatives decides, with an amendment from the Christian Union, that 2 million signatures are needed, otherwise you cannot request a referendum. Well, then we can jump high or low here in the First Chamber, but that's a fact, unless we can change it with a novelle. Is that the procedure Mr Van Raak sees in that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u556	If the House of Representatives demands 2 million votes, I would advise Mr Otten to vote against that law. That's a crazy law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u557	Mr. Otten, your third. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u558	I can't get an answer to my question. What was it in the consultative referendum? I thought 300,000 in two weeks. That's a very short time. That is the kind of demand that can be made. How do you see that? Let's say we want it to go from 300,000 to 200,000. How do you think we should do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u559	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u560	A novelle should be possible, but with regard to this threshold, I do not see any possibilities for this at the moment. Of course the Senate can send me out. The Senate may ask: Mr. Van Raak, demarrate! But if the Senate does that without a bike, without a uniform, without a course and without a view of a leading group I have to go to, then that is not a real task. I haven't heard anything across the street. I don't have a bike yet, I don't have a uniform, I don't have a route yet, I don't have anything yet. And there's no breakaway in sight yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u561	I heard Mr Van Raak say something very interesting. He actually says: no matter how you turn or turn it, when the turnout threshold is reached, you can hold a referendum anyway. And if the 40% threshold is reached, it will have legal effect. And if it is not achieved, you can actually consider it an advisory referendum. That's how I understood it. Now my question is the following. There is, of course, still a law to implement Article 89a of the Constitution. That's what you've been talking about. Could you settle this in that law, too? In that law you have to regulate the implementation of the binding referendum on the one hand. Could you also put in that same law that if that outcome threshold is not met, it is considered to be an advisory referendum? Would you be able to make rules about that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u562	No, that's not a matter of legislation, it's just a matter of politics. We are all elected representatives of the people. We're always gonna make decisions. So when a referendum is held, it depends on the subject of the referendum, on our preferences, on our political colours, on everything. Members of parliament can always make their own reflections. You cannot put in the Constitution that MPs should not make their own reflections. The beauty of a binding corrective referendum is that if the outcome threshold is reached, it will automatically lapse. But let's say it's not, let's say there's a very clear outcome and a very high turnout and it's a very convenient point for a particular party. As a constitutionalist or legislator, you cannot ban politicians from having an opinion. It can't be. You don't have to lay that down legally. You can't make that legal. That's just how politics works. That is the work of the people's representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u563	I understand that, but I am concerned that we do not want a law to bring those disappointments. That is why my question was the following. You can make a law in which on the one hand you regulate the implementation of this constitutional article, in which you arrange that if you come above the threshold of outcome, it will have legal effect. Then the law will expire. But in the same law you also rule that the referendum also has an effect if you fail to do so. That is because it is an advisory referendum. And in the law, you're gonna take care of what the House of Representatives has to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u564	Thank you. That's a very fair question. What's gonna happen is you gotta be honest. That means that if a referendum is organized and the House of Representatives decides that it will be held at the same time as the elections, that is also the intention of the government, that is the intention of the House of Representatives, and in most cases that can be the fair story: this coincides with Parliamentary elections, so that threshold is real. If you do that separately, or with other elections, or with a few referendums or all by yourself, if the House of Representatives decides on that later, then you just have to tell the voter an honest story. Then you have to say: this is a very high turnout threshold. What you can do is what you saw in the past: that parties say they commit to a certain result or whatever. You can always do that. That is completely separate from this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u565	Mr. Nicolaï, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u566	I hear Mr Van Raak say 'if the House of Representatives decides and so on', but people collect signatures and then a referendum comes about. If the referendum comes about and can be linked to the ordinary elections, we can reach that threshold. If the referendum comes about two years before we are going to hold elections, I want to know what the consequences will be. Mr Van Raak is very close to it from the political point of view, and I am looking at it more from the citizen's point of view. If I, as a citizen, hold such a referendum and there is a good chance that I will not reach that threshold, what consequences are there? You could do that in that law, couldn't you? You'll have a law that never leads to disappointments. You're gonna make it. You're gonna be okay. If you don't make it, you won't be disappointed, but you'll have other consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u567	I would like to, but you cannot lay down the interpretation of the outcome of a referendum by politicians in a law. I can't. What you can do is think carefully about how you're going to do this referendum. If the Cabinet and the Chamber say "we are going to make it coincide as much as possible with Parliamentary elections," you can really look at that. The organisation of referendums requires hundreds of thousands of signatures. Go do it! Some people talk about that very easily. Mr Otten knows, and I know, that is not easy. Such a referendum is then about a subject that is big and controversial. These are not the first laws that a cabinet generally comes up with. So, in the first period there is not a lot of legislation anyway, with an exception. Of course, it's okay to rescind a law, because it was already there. But in general, it takes some time for legislation to get steamed up, especially from big laws. What I learned in politics is that the periods fly by pretty quickly. And if those hundreds of thousands of signatures were collected, a subject is by definition controversial. The people would have said, "Hey, wait a minute." I'm pressing the pause button. And then there's hardly ever any point in content that it has to be done right away. Often it's about laws that want to change big things or about big initiatives. Well, that can usually wait. There will also be exceptions where that is not possible. I can't draw that out, and I can't put that in a law. It will ultimately be up to the House of Representatives to decide when it can and cannot do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u568	Mr Van Raak has emphasized that he does not actually see the route of the novelle, because we do not give him a bicycle or a uniform and even our bell does not reach far enough, we have just noticed. So it's not gonna be any of that. Let me try to make a senatorial remark. We need to talk here about legality, feasibility and enforcement. Another suggestion has also been made by Mr Kox. Questions have been asked to the Minister, but not yet to Mr Van Raak. How does he see that possibility of splitting that law through Article 137 GW? Or, in his view, is that indeed not a passable route when it comes to legality and feasibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u569	I think that's a very interesting suggestion. I hadn't thought of it before 9:00 this morning. I like that and I'm curious about the Minister's letter. It's one of the options we have. It's beautiful. While I am standing here with Mr Schalk, I come to a very good comment from him on that novelle. This Chamber does not, of course, have the right to amend it. A novelle, said Mr Schalk quite rightly, must be offered by the author or the consultant. It's all possible. I have to say, that's what I meant by playing "Second Room," that I already find forcing a novelle with a motion a lot less chic. But the remark "if the petitioner is not going to do it, we are going to find another MP who is going to do it," I find not only on the border of state law, but also on the border of decency. But I can reassure Mr Ganzevoort: I am a trial counselor and I want a referendum to be held. So if this motion turns out to be a majority vote, then I'm gonna do it as my successor. I must disappoint Mr Van der Linden. We can't make a law in two weeks. That's not gonna be him. Certainly not because there is no signal from the political groups in the House of Representatives that they are quite different now. In two weeks, making a law isn't gonna be him. If I knock on my door at the Council of State, I'll be laughed at. That's not gonna happen, so it's gonna be a deadline later anyway. That'll be four years later. And it's unmistakable, because yes, call it a novelle about something, but this has been explicitly amended by the House of Representatives. Why is that done? Because in its senatorial unit, the House of Representatives has looked at a law that may have a large support base in the Second and First Chambers and which is workable. That's what this is the resultant of. Then it is not easy, actually impossible, to send someone who has been sent here on behalf of the House of Representatives, with the threat: if you do not, we will find another Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u570	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u571	But if this motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u572	No, no, no, I am really giving the floor to Mr Schalk. I'm gonna stop you right now. Mr Schalk was even still in his interruption, so I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The petitioner is "gazing" us all the way with his glowing speech. At least that's what he's trying to do. But precisely because of the point he has just mentioned, I shall return to the Senate. We have to look at legality. Let's take a look at the bill, as it has been filed and as you have steered it through the Lower House as a trial counselor. To that have been added elements that may not be acceptable to you. Is it then legitimate to say to the House of Representatives that we invented a trick in the First Chamber; we could use the Constitution to perhaps remove that element that has been added? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u574	I don't know if there's a majority for that. I don't know if it's constitutional. I think it's constitutional. That's my first impression. And if it is desirable, that is up to the States-General. These are also often the wordings used by the Council of State in such cases. It may, and whether it is desirable, be for the States-General. I think that's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u575	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u576	That means that you are giving a different opinion on this front than the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u577	If I understand correctly, the Minister says that this split is not in a logical place for her. In my view, the Minister has also said that if it is not true that it is ultimately up to the States-General, she can correct me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u578	That means, of course, that we are particularly interested in the letter that comes about. I think that not only is Mr Van Raak looking at that letter, but also by a number of wechurists, to ensure that we do not fall into a trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u579	I find it fascinating that Mr Van Raak calls the House of Representatives, who is primarily looking to find a political compromise, a senatorial, and that he calls the House of Lords, which is critical of the quality of the law, its workability, etc., a Second Chamber. I don't understand what's going on in his head, but I find it fascinating. My question is another one. It's about the division proposal. What indication does Mr Van Raak have that there might be a majority who would like to split it up so that the threshold of outcome disappears altogether?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u580	I have not received any information on the novelle, on the split or on the beginning of the second reading with a first reading by any group on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u581	I find that answer too easy. He has extensive comments on the fact that the novelle could not make it, because he has no majority, there is no indication, etc. If he suddenly finds that proposal for division very interesting, my question is whether he has any indication that there is a majority in favour of it. In fact, that would mean that a two-thirds majority would have to say: we welcome the disappearance of the threshold. That's not a serious suggestion, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u582	I don't know. That proposal was made from your Chamber. The minister's gonna write a letter about that. I have heard Mr Verkerk say on behalf of the Christian Union about the novella: that is not going to happen to my party. From the VVD and the CDA I have heard sounds that I cannot interpret quite differently. I have not yet heard any sounds on this particular subject, either from this Chamber or from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u583	Does Mr Van Raak think it is anything other than illusory that one of these parties would say: good idea; we are going to split it up and let the outcome threshold fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u584	I have a bill here. That's what I'm defending today. I ask your Chamber to give its opinion on that. That's what I do. I'm very curious about any initiative from the Chamber. If this Chamber decides that I will be forced by motion to see if a novelle is possible, that is the reality I have to deal with. If this Chamber sees any other possibility under state law, I'll hear it. That's the part I have here now. I'm trying to see if this momentum to get a referendum succeeds or doesn't. That's my role, my purpose, and that's what I've been trying to do since the publication of this report. The question I put to your Chamber is whether you say yes or no. I wonder if the Labour Party or GroenLinks are going to say yes or raise a threshold. I don't know. I'm gonna hear it and see it. If I get an assignment from this Chamber, I get an assignment. I don't know if I can do it. We'll see. That's the part I have here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u585	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, after the messengers have cleaned and moved the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u586	Mr President, thank you. I have the impression that what is happening here tonight is a little unnoticed. Perhaps that is because there is another debate on the other side. That's too bad, because this is about something. At least our self-appointed counsellor showed his true nature in the second term, I think. That is the case of a passionate politician who is defending an initiative constitution. Here's what I wanted to do. I'd like to answer a few more questions. After that, as an advisor, I can give you some further considerations. I would have liked to give Mr Van Hattem and Mr Doornhof one more answer to the question about local authorities. It is true that the draft Constitution leaves the regulation on the binding referendum at the level of the co-governments entirely to those co-governments. This means that there is no longer any role for the national legislator. Mr Doornhof is therefore right to say that in the current wording of the draft Constitution, the national legislator cannot provide for certain decisions of the co-governments to be exempted from referendibility. He doesn't like that, but I have to confirm to him that this is true. I would also like to comment on the various scientific insights. Mr Doornhof also made a comment about this. Those insights are there. There are also behavioural scientific insights and insights of a more constitutional nature. I think it is important to say that they are all relevant in the end. But if the cabinet says it also follows the advice of the Council of State, it is not just an advisor for the cabinet. It is one of the High Colleges of State, which is, of course, a very important advisor for the Cabinet and also for the Chamber of Representatives. Of course, we always have to look more broadly, but that does indicate that you cannot say that Mr Doornhof seemed to do so just a moment ago in his second term, which would undermine the quality of the Constitution's opinion on the outcome threshold. I would really like to throw that far from me. Then there's the emergency legislation. Mr Schalk asked for that. I told you I would come back to that in the second term. I thought that the interruption debate with Mr Otten had already removed the misunderstanding that urgent laws would not be referendable. If I said that by mistake, I didn't mean to say that. They are referendable, but they will enter into force immediately. Because of their urgency, they simply enter into force before a referendum could possibly be held. It has been asked whether it could then be the case that a cabinet then bombs all the laws into emergency laws. No, the amendment of the Constitution explicitly states that only the legislator can determine that a law is urgent in the sense stated in the amendment of the Constitution. So the government can't do that on its own. The Chambers as co-legislators must agree to that. In this way, I believe, we have sufficient safeguards to prevent possible abuse in theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u587	Let's talk about the issue of local authorities. Article 178a clearly states that this is a municipal regulation, a provincial regulation or a watership regulation. In my view, the restriction is already a matter of state law, in my view, in the fact that it must be a regulation at a decentralised level. A local government cannot just discuss everything in a referendum. It must fall within its own domain, within its own household. Does the Minister agree with me? If so, is that not in itself a limitation on the possibilities of making matters referendable at a decentralised level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u588	It must fall within the domain of the relevant co-government. What I was trying to say, however, is that I did so mainly in the direction of Mr Doornhof, who said that there was no restriction on the co-governments in the draft Constitutional Amendment. The co-governments are completely free on this point. They may also decide not to hold referendums at all. They may decide to do so on matters that affect them. They have a lot of space in them. We cannot say from here that you cannot do that on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u589	Then we have to conclude that this fits within the own house of the municipalities, the provinces and the water authorities, that this also fits within the decentralisation and that it should not be necessary to regulate this in the Constitution, because, given the constraints in terms of decentralised tasks, there are already no unlimited possibilities to hold referendums. Local and regional authorities are already bound by their respective territories and jurisdictions. Other things are really on a rich level. Isn't that a sufficient definition not to have to include it in the Constitution? That is actually the rather fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u590	My point is that this is simply the explanation as contained in the proposal that the local authorities should regulate in their own regulations how they want to do the referendum, if they want to do so. So there's actually just maximum autonomy for the fellow governments to organize that. That's my explanation. Then the important issue of splitting up. It has been said several times that there will be a letter, and I think this was a question for me, but I will explain it as clearly as possible first. If the Chamber appreciates that, I will, of course, record it in a letter. It is a possibility that the Constitution offers to the House of Representatives, as I said in the first term, with two-thirds majority on subjects that can physically be separated from the main proposal. At the outcome threshold, I do not see that possibility, which is contained in Article 89d. You can't split up and deal with that article separately, because then you amputate the Constitutional proposal. There will be nothing left on the legal effects of the referendum. It is therefore a key element of the legislative proposal. Mr Van Raak is right when he says that it is ultimately up to the House of Representatives. The Lower House is competent to split up, not the Cabinet and not the Upper Chamber. In the end, therefore, the verdict belongs to the House of Representatives. I'd like to write that down in a letter if you'd like. That letter will then contain exactly this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u591	My group and other groups appreciate this, especially if the Minister, thanks to her great civil service, also looks at what the government said at the time about the nature of the division article and why that right of division was not given to this Chamber. That is because the then government said that the right of division is related to the right of amendment. The right of amendment lies with the House of Representatives and the right of division lies with the House of Representatives. And since the First Chamber doesn't have the right of amendment, it can't be with us. This means that the Constitutionalist has foreseen that this is an opportunity to amend a legislative proposal at second reading, and even at first reading. In my opinion, but the Minister could then ask her experts, one of the considerations was that if a legislative proposal at second reading could achieve two-thirds majority but there is one element that hinders that, then it is the right of the Second Chamber not to let that part stand in the way of positive decision-making. I hope the Minister will take a look at that, too. There are no books written about it, but there is more written about it than just that it is possible to split, but that it will not be possible. I have one last question for the Minister. She says, if you take that out, you amputate the bill. She could be absolutely right about that. I would say that if you take Article 89a, 89b and 89c and then the article that says that the rest is all further regulated in the law, that could also be a full constitutional provision. But one more time: I have absolutely no wisdom in this matter. But I would ask the Minister to look at the legal history and the interpretation. Why did this bill come about? Why is this possibility in the Lower House and not in the Upper Chamber? Then I look forward to that letter with even greater interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u592	I am, of course, prepared to include the historical perspective requested by Mr Kox in the letter. Why does it belong to the Lower House and not to the Upper House? I'll add that. But I would point out to him that the article in question, Article 89d, determines its binding nature. We are talking here about a constitutional proposal for a correct binding referendum. Without that article, the legal effect is gone. I cannot help but say that it is really essential for the proposal that is before us. But you will of course receive the letter, supplemented by what Mr Kox requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u593	Here too, if the Minister or I could have written it all ourselves, we would not have written it down in this way. But here, too, there are more provisions in our Constitution that do not have very much to do with the text. I'll just mention the mayor's appointment. That was really just a sentence, but there was a whole thought frame behind it. I believe that an interpretation is possible: Article 89a, 89b and 89c, combined with the general article, could also be a full constitutional article. That needs to be looked at. And in the end, it is up to the House of Representatives to decide whether or not they want to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u594	Minister, do you think you have the opportunity to send the letter to the Chamber for the weekend, for example by Friday 6 p.m., so that the political groups have time to think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u595	Yeah, I'll do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u596	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u597	There were a few other questions. Mrs Baay asked about the bandwidth, whether the cabinet had not decided whether it had been at the bottom or at the top. That is indeed the case with implication. I've indicated a bandwidth on behalf of the cabinet. The House of Representatives has made a choice. Indeed, I could have gone along with that of the State Commission, so 33.33%. So this is a threshold that has not taken up the cabinet, I say to Mr Otten, but which the House of Representatives has wished for. Mrs Baay also asked whether, under the Constitutional proposal, an amendment was adopted by a normal majority at first reading or by a two-thirds majority. It doesn't matter. At first reading, the normal legislative procedure applies. This means that the House of Representatives takes a decision by a normal majority on amendments and on the proposal itself. Also for the legal validity of second reading, it is not true that an amendment which would have been adopted by a two-thirds majority at first reading would be worth more than an amendment adopted by a normal majority. She can pass that on to her group chairman, who was interested in it. There were also a number of questions about the novelle from Mr Van der Linden and others. I agree with the initiator. To achieve this before the forthcoming elections is simply not realistic. There's still advice from the Council of State. He has yet to be treated and adopted in the Second and Upper Chambers. I don't really see that happening, so it doesn't make much sense to let that illusion exist here. To be honest, that's just not feasible. There's not enough time left to do all that. A related question that arose was about the implementation law. Mr Otten and I also believe Mr Nicolaï spoke about it. If this Chamber were to adopt this proposal and you know that the second reading starts, then, of course, implementation legislation can already be started. You don't have to do that by law of initiative. That can also happen on the cabinet side. It's still a lot of work, a lot of technical work, I guess. A normal route at a second reading is that you start that and that's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u598	With regard to the implementing law that still needs to be adopted, I would like to ask the Minister the following. I had the impression that Mr Van Raak had not fully understood me. We had a law consultative referendum. Article 3: 'The result of a referendum shall be deemed to be an advisory decision to reject it if a majority of the votes cast are negative and the turnout in the referendum is at least 30% of the total number of voters'. Actually, my question was: if you are going to make an implementing law, you could just call it the referendum or wet referenda. In that implementing law you will then lay down the rules necessary for the binding corrective referendum. We then simply incorporate Article 3 of the Advisory referendum Act and say: if the outcome threshold is not reached, the outcome of the referendum will be an advisory ruling and so on. That was my proposal. My question to the Minister is (a) whether this is possible and (b) whether she agrees with me that this matter of disappointment will be avoided. We say to those who want a referendum: you can apply for a referendum; if you reach the outcome threshold, it is binding and if you do not reach it, it is advisory. Then there's no disappointment. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u599	I will start at the end, because that is exactly how I understood the debate between Mr Nicolaï and Mr Van Raak. I found it an interesting argument from the initiator: if this binding corrective referendum is there and is also held, but the outcome threshold is not reached, then a referendum has been held; it is not binding, however, because the outcome threshold has not been met. That does not take away the referendum and neither does the result. In that case, the de facto 'de facto' is the way I understood it as a consultative referendum. It is up to politics whether or not something happens to it. What mission, what message from the electorate, does politics want to understand and take with it? That is a kind of de facto consultative referendum. You don't have to take care of that. That's just a fact. The referendum has been held, the result is there, so that means that the voters have spoken in that referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u600	I understand that it would be de facto so, but what would be against regulating it in that law? It says here: if the turnout in the referendum has been at least 30%. That was the case for the consultative referendum. Of course, we cannot hold on to that 40% or higher that applies to a binding referendum. So you're gonna have to arrange something for that. What would be against fixing that? Then it is clear that you have two options when you apply for a referendum. If you get above it, it's binding, but if you get under it, it's settled, too. Then it is not "we see what politics does," but then it is regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u601	Your question is clear, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u602	That was the second part of the question and also of my reasoning. I think you could do this. I do not think there is anything against it from a legislative point of view. I think we can do this. You then charge the implementing legislation, which actually sees this draft constitution, with a new element that does not arise from this proposal for a constitution. For political reasons, parties may or may not agree with this, but of course Mr Nicolaï and others are free to make such suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u603	I have a very short question. Wouldn't it make the confusion and disappointment much greater if you deal with the correct binding referendum in this way, like: if you don't get it all together, then at least it's still advisory? Of course, nobody does anything with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u604	I understand very well that Mr Schalk says that. That could be a good idea. That is why I understood Mr Van Raak in such a way that he said: "But the referendum was held. In doing so, we, politicians, representatives of the people, cabinet and ministers, also have to take into account people who have gone there to vote and who have expressed their wish, even in the event that a threshold is not reached." I think that this is always relevant in any form of a threshold that is not being reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u605	As an expert in experience, I would like to add a few words to that, including to Mr Nicolaï. The consultative referendum stated that if the population reaches the turnout threshold and the majority says no, then the government must decide as soon as possible whether or not to adopt the result. What exactly did we see in the Ukraine Association Agreement? The population had said no, the turnout threshold was reached and then Prime Minister Rutte endlessly started to think up stalls, inserts and goat paths and I know what. Every time he tried to get out of that decision again. This has led to a great deal of frustration in that consultative referendum. I think the appetite for a referendum is much lower now, just because of that whole thing. Now we get that cold amendment from the Christian Union on top. I should like to make that point. If the government eventually slows down, does nothing or throws everything on the long track, you'll get that frustration, too. I therefore believe that Mr Nicolaï's solution is not working entirely in practice. I just wanted to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u606	One of the lessons, including those other referenda, is that it is good to be able to say in advance what is needed and whether something is binding or not binding. Now there is a proposal for a binding referendum. Then the people will know where they are. But if the threshold is not reached, it is not binding and must be done in a different way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk also asked why I had said in an interim that the cabinet was decommissioned and that this could still have an impact on the ratification of the Constitutional proposal. I think that, since Friday, I have, in every two sentences, given the fact that we are expelled. I think that's appropriate, because we're just in a different position than before. That is what I wanted to express and not that it would prevent or hinder the adoption of the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Two more questions and then a few final remarks. Mr Doornhof had a number of comments on the role of the cabinet and on what you should or should not advise. However, I think that in the case of own-initiative legislation, and certainly in the case of a change in the constitution of an initiative, the cabinet in the decision-making sense will only be fully covered at the end of the journey. That's at the ratification. So that is also the time when the cabinet could say: we do not ratify. Let us say that this is a real means of power that the cabinet could use. In all these phases before that, we are advisors. You then try to provide both Chambers with advice as best you can. If this has gone all the way through both Chambers, then of course it is not obvious to say: we do not ratify. That's not gonna happen very much. I have been told that this has only happened twice. There is, of course, even less reason for this at first reading, because there will then be a second reading. So I did not want to say in any way that this would now play a role. That would not be good and the cabinet would never do so lightly. Finally, Mr Raven stressed the importance of the democratic rule of law and that it should not be harmed. I totally agree with him. That's our expensive duty. That's what I said in my first term. This includes care on the part of the cabinet, on the part of the legislator. We should not think lightly about that. Finally, Mr President. I note that we have started the debate with the Ostrogorski paradox. Mr Verkerk just gave a nice explanation of what a paradox actually is, but we end up with a dilemma. We have talked about splitting up, novelles, whether or not before the elections, what can happen? I note that at least a number of spokesmen have said: we would rather have nothing at all over the next four years, hoping that a kind of breakthrough could be made in the next four years. Of course there is nothing wrong with that, but it is uncertain, because then you have nothing at all. The alternative, which is of course the other side of the dilemma, would be to move on now. Then there's something. You can always try to make that "something" better. It may be that a number of parties say that they think that "something" is too little and actually "nothing." But we don't know. There is no correct binding referendum in the Netherlands. Not all referenda, not even in our country, have a very exciting outcome of 51% and 49%. Not all referenda require as high a turnout as 80%. There are international examples of referenda that are simply held and successful with this relationship, under these conditions. I'm just considering it. It's not a preference. In parliamentary history, attempts have often been made to obtain a binding referendum in the Constitution. It's the fourth time in a thick two decades. I believe that at least that is an obligation for us to deal with it very seriously. That's what I've been trying to do from the cabinet. I realize that, according to some, this is not the ideal variant. The discussion will continue. But at least with what's in there, you don't have to start from scratch. I just want to say that I understand the dilemma. Is it the dead sparrow or is it better now becoming the enemy of good? I don't think I have anything else but to wish you much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u607	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u608	I have a point about that "something or nothing." We're talking about "nothing" and "something" coming. We had something, and that was the consultative referendum. I've always learned that you should never throw away your old shoes before you get new ones. I see that the Minister has a very good choice of shoe, so she will undoubtedly know that saying. You had "something." Then why did the Minister abolish it in an instant? It would have made much more sense to maintain that consultative referendum and that then within the correct referendum with thresholds etc.... You caused the "nothing" yourself. You created the great "nothing," I say to the Minister. Why don't you explain that to me first? 'Cause I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u609	Of course, Mr Otten understands very well, but he is entitled to ask. My reasoning is entirely based on the binding corrective referendum, a constitutional change. For the Otten Group, this is even the right to exist in this Chamber. This applies to several parties. There is a very big difference from a consultative referendum, which had many imperfections and in practice had led to a great deal of disappointment because of its lack of clarity. That's why I abolished it. That was an assignment from the coalition agreement, but I was able to implement it with conviction, because I am really convinced that the consultative referendum as an instrument is not working properly. He is now linking that to the proposal that lies here. The proposal is an own-initiative constitutional change. Not mine. I'm not defending the proposal. I merely wanted to mention the dilemma which I see has arisen this evening, from the proposal that is before us. That is a political dilemma. I did not want to judge it, but merely outlined the way forward for a second reading. Or another pass in place. It automatically means a pass back, because I don't think the other route, the novelle and the splitting, is a real route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u610	Thank you. Do you have a question about this bill, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u611	Yes, very briefly. I can still hear the Prime Minister say that the consultative referendum did not bring us what we expected. Well, that was mostly because of his own performance...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u612	Mr. Otten, the consultative referendum is not on today. It is a legislative proposal on a binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-9.u613	I have come to deal with the initiative proposal. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. Does the House agree that the motion should be put to the vote in accordance with Mr Ganzevoort's request prior to the vote on the legislative proposal? I understand, Mr. Ganzevoort, that's your proposal. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case. Then that's how we'll do it. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the members and staff who made this meeting possible and wish you well at home.
