ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. It shall be present on behalf of the Government at the third term and the votes. I will reopen the debate for a short third time. After this deadline, I will suspend for a short time and then the votes on the motions will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We also discussed the extension of Lelystad Airport last week under the nitrogen law. That issue has been declared controversial in the House of Representatives. It is therefore remarkable to note that a list of 3,637 PAS notifications proposed for legalisation has been added as an annex to the nitrogen law. In response to questions from Laura Bromet van GroenLinks in the Lower House, the Minister said that these activities would be purely ground-based and would remain below the 1 mole standard. But Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen has now indicated that emissions are four times the norm, so that Lelystad Airport cannot be regarded as appropriate in this list of small land-based projects. We still have no idea which projects are still on that list. I would ask the Minister to give that list to the Chamber for inspection. As far as Lelystad Airport is concerned, I will therefore table the next motion. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Kluit, Mr Janssen and Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands 75% of the land area falls by more nitrogen than is permitted;]] [[Having noted that 3.637 PAS notifications following the amendment to item No. 19 of Bishop c.s. legalised, including the PAS message from Lelystad Airport of 45,000 flight movements per year;]] [[Considering that the Lower House has declared a number of Kamerletters on the Lelystad Airport file controversial, including reservation PAS 2014 and nitrogen calculations MER 2014 Lelystad Airport;]] [[Considering that the justification for the nitrogen emissions provided by Lelystad Airport in this notification led to the conclusion that emissions remained below 1 mol, while later the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State recognised these emissions on 4 mol, and that the PAS report from Lelystad Airport therefore appears to be wrongly part of the PAS detector list;]] [[Whereas the government is taking irreversible decisions with the planned legalisation of the Lelystad Airport flight and traffic movements, threatening to harm the interests of intended PAS detectors;]] [[Calls on the Government to remove Lelystad Airport from the PAS detector list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u4	That was a new motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u5	A new motion. The submission of the motion shall be sufficiently supported. The motion thus forms part of the debate (35600, letter R).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u6	Then there is a second point, Mr President. With the 4 moles involved with Lelystad Airport, the strange situation arises that projects under 1 moles suddenly stand next to a project of 4 moles. Actually, you can compare that to a very old joke that I first heard as a 10-year-old: "A man comes to a gas pump. He asks, "How much is one drop of gas?" The pump operator says, "One drop doesn't cost anything." The gentleman then says, "Drop it!" That's exactly what's going on at Lelystad right now. The target is 45,000 flight movements. Lelystad is applying for a natural permit for 10,000. Those 10,000 stay under one mole. They don't do that once, but they do it four or five times. Then you can just make 45,000 flight movements, all of which are under one mole because four times nothing means nothing. That cannot be the intention, my group believes. That is why I have the next amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u7	The Koffeman c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that in the Netherlands more nitrogen falls than is permitted, with major consequences; Considering that the Lower House has declared a number of Kamerletters on file Lelystad controversial, including the Reservation PAS 2014 and nitrogen calculations MER 2014 Lelystad Airport; Whereas the granting of the nature permit is a first step towards the opening up of Lelystad Airport, while in the light of the controversial statement a pass is obvious; whereas the Dutch State owns 70% of Schiphol Airport, which again owns 100% of Lelystad Airport; Whereas the examination of an application for authorisation may be suspended if the applicant so agrees; whereas, through the intervention of Royal Schiphol Group N.V., the Government can ensure that N.V. Lelystad Airport agrees to withdraw or suspend the examination of the application for authorisation; Calls on the Government to suspend the examination of the application until a new cabinet decides on it, and to use its influence as a majority shareholder in Royal Schiphol Group to obtain the cooperation of N.V. Lelystad Airport, and goes to the order of the day. This amended motion was signed by Mr Koffeman, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Kluit and Mr Janssen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter U, was letter O ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. Last week during the debate, the Minister provided a document supporting the completion of the SDF reports by the Minister on Natura 2000 sites, for which I would like to thank him once again. It reads that the Ministry receives information from various organisations, such as Rijkswaterstaat, Sovon Vogelonderzoek Nederland and Alterra Wageningen University. These organisations provide scores on Natura 2000 sites. How they got to those scores remains a black box. Sometimes, for example, it says that such a score is based on an expert's judgement and nothing else; no justification, nothing. The evidence is nowhere to be found. The Ministry then fills in the SDF database on the basis of the scores provided. This is done by the Ministry with or without corrections. It can be read that the corrections are not included in the report. Those corrections are interesting, because there may be room for interpretation. Also for these corrections the foundation is missing; another black box. Mr. Chairman. The state of Natura 2000 sites is crucial for the measures resulting from this legislative proposal. It is therefore important to understand how the scores included in the SDF report have been achieved. Therefore, the PVV Group considers it important that the aforementioned arguments should be transparent. Surely it can't be that we're going to decide on this bill with far-reaching consequences with these aforementioned black boxes? That is why I have modified the motions previously tabled under the letters L and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u9	The motion Faber of the Klashorst c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission, using the Standard Data Forms, abbreviated SDF, assesses whether Member States comply with the Habitats Directive;]] [[noting that organisations such as Sovon Vogelonderzoek Nederland, Rijkswaterstaat and Alterra WUR provide data to the Ministry;]] [[noting that these data relate only to scores and not to underlying evidence;]] [[noting that, on the basis of this information, the Ministry itself compiles the SDF report with any corrections;]] [[noting that the nature of these corrections is not included in the SDF report;]] [[Calls on the Government to make public the justification of the submitted scores of the aforementioned organisations and to make the corrections made to the SDF report with the corresponding motivation also publicly available, for the past SDF reports and future SDF reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u10	Then the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u11	The motion Faber of the Klashorst c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission, using the Standard Data Forms (SDF), assesses whether Member States comply with the Habitats Directive;]] [[considers that the status of Natura 2000 sites plays a crucial role in the measures resulting from the present legislative proposal;]] [[noting that the scores on the state of Natura 2000 sites provided by the various organisations to the Ministry lack the support;]] [[noting that, on the basis of these data, the Ministry itself compiles the SDF report with any corrections;]] [[noting that these corrections are not included in the SDF report;]] [[noting that these corrections and underlying motivations are not understandable;]] [[calls on the Court not to vote on the present legislative proposal, as long as the aforementioned supporting documents on the preparation of the SDF reports have not been provided by the Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Then we have the request to vote on these motions before the vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u13	Thank you. Are there any other Members who wish to speak in this third term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, but only after I have suspended for a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u14	I understand that Mr Koffeman wishes to speak. I call Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize for the confusion, but the motion presented as a modified motion was a new motion, and the motion presented as a new motion was changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. We can do that, especially since the lettering remains unchanged. The lettering thus remains unchanged. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four motions and one more question from Mr Koffeman. Mr Koffeman's question was when the PAS detectors will be made public. There has been a ruling from the Council of State to disclose the location data. I'll do that in the short term. It can be done at the earliest on 22 March, as the PAS detectors still have the possibility to object to disclosure at individual level. Then there's the first motion. I don't know if it's changed or not, but I'm just gonna judge her the way she's ahead of me. It asks for Lelystad Airport to be removed from the PAS detectors. At the moment we are working on a so-called verification process with all PAS notifications, also to assess whether the applications from then as a PAS detector were correct. I cannot anticipate the outcome of that, because that is still in the verification. That's why I have to discourage this motion now. Then there's the motion on Lelystad, that the application should be suspended. That application is already in procedure, in fact, we have already given an initial response to the application for authorisation. It is precisely up to the parties to present their views on the contrary. So that request is already further in the procedure than what this motion is asking, so I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u18	Legally, the Minister may suspend the proceedings at any time at the time the applicant agrees. The particular fact is that the applicant is indirectly the government. It is Schiphol Airport, which is 75% of the government, which makes an application to the government. You would almost think that those almost similar parties should be able to come out together at the time they decide to suspend this until the controversial statement is over and a new cabinet is in place. That's the request. I have the feeling that it is not right for the Minister to say: yes, but there is a random applicant and we cannot go through that procedure. I would like to ask the Minister: can the cabinet consult with Schiphol Airport, Lelystad Airport, to suspend the procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u19	Mr Koffeman refers to me as a licence holder. As a licence holder, I have no option of saying that you are allowed to come through here and you are not allowed to come through here. Anyone can come to my house, and then I have to judge what's ahead of me. Mr Koffeman says that it is partly also a company owned by the government. That is true, but I must refer to the Minister of Finance's policy. It says: even where we have state participations, let us do the business. That is the line that Finance proposes, including in this case. Not just here, but wider. Then I'm dealing with a permit application that comes before me. I have to judge it, and that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u20	It sounds like a very formalistic answer. It is still a government-controlled body that submits a licence application to the government. I do not think that formalism is in line with the controversial statement made in the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u21	I would like to stress once again that the political decision on whether or not to open Lelystad Airport has indeed been declared controversial and that the Cabinet does not now make any proposals for this. I am dealing here with a licence application that has arisen and which I had to assess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u22	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u23	It is in line with the expectation that political decision-making will be seriously hampered once licences for flight movements have been issued. I would ask the Minister not to want to separate that from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u24	I have heard that Mr Koffeman's party is very keen to co-exist, so perhaps that would be an encouragement to Mr Koffeman to join a table as it appears. Then he can influence that himself. Then there's the third motion. That is the motion with the letter S, of Mrs Faber and others. It calls on the government to make public the justification of the scores provided. I have also sent you many references to reports over the past week, as I promised. So we share everything we have. Mrs Faber asks here: what makes an expert an expert? That is quite a meta-discussion in this respect. It is simply about land managers, about people who are experts in certain areas. Based on their expertise, we take matters back into the reports, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u25	I didn't ask, what makes an expert an expert? I didn't ask that question, but maybe I misread or misread it. It could be. This is what I'm talking about. The Ministry gets scores from the organization I mentioned earlier. All you get is some codes. There's no justification for that. Sometimes there is a reference, such as "this score is based on an expert's advice," but in fact you don't know anything yet. How does such an expert get to a certain score? I also told you last week that in certain areas for dry heathens you had only five species of vascular plants, for example, whereas there are now about fifteen. That's all been added. So we would like to see why a certain code is given. Based on what? That those codes are there, that's right. That you can see those codes, that's right. But why, for example, choose a code A, B or C? Then there is the fact that these scores meet with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The scores are filled in by the officials and corrections are made to them. Not on all scores, but on some scores corrections are made. It is absolutely incomprehensible what the nature of these corrections is. We would like to have the motivation to do so. For example, a country like Germany does indicate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u27	... why it chose certain scores. But the Netherlands does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u28	Your Chamber's request to me was to disclose all the information I had. I did. I sent everything I have. And again, why does an expert judge, for example, that a particular species or habitat has gone forward or backward? That will be based, among other things, on the observation that is being made at that point. I can then ask all kinds of questions behind that, but at that moment you simply use the knowledge of an expert who can judge that, as happens often. Again, that's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u29	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u30	Would the Minister be willing, for example, to ask an organisation like Alterra of the University of Wateringen or Rijkswaterstaat about that justification? I'd like to believe that the Minister may not have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u31	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u32	... but I can't imagine there's no support at the ministry or at an organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u33	Your question is clear, Mrs Faber. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to ask those two organisations to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u34	These organisations do this kind of research on a number of occasions. They include experts with knowledge about whether a plant has increased more or less. That's really specialist knowledge. We're using these people to judge that. We really give maximum transparency about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u35	We'll be right with your second motion. Would you like to appreciate it already?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u36	That motion is not addressed to me. I think that's a motion to the Chamber. It calls on the Chamber not to put the bill to the vote. I think that's up to your Chamber for assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u37	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u38	I would like to come back to that point of transparency. The Minister states that she wants to give maximum transparency, but unfortunately I have to conclude that the Minister does not even want to question the basis of the codes provided. This bill is based on the state of the Natura 2000 land and nature. It plays a crucial role. It has enormous consequences for the measures. So I think it is only natural that this should be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Will you leave it at that, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u40	At the moment when the impression is given here that there is a legislative proposal that is not substantiated, I shall refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u41	No, Mrs Faber, I am now going to end the debate, this third term. I've already given you the floor five times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u42	I'll see if there are any further issues that we can steer. But once again, I think I've actually sent in about everything that's been sent. And again, why someone is an expert and can draw a certain conclusion as an expert, seems to me to be a discussion that we should not enter into here in the context of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u43	Then we'll write down a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-7.u44	We shall vote on the new motion under letter U and the amended motion under letter R by Mr Koffeman next week. On the two amended motions under the letters S and T of Mrs Faber of the PVV we will be voting shortly, prior to the vote on the legislative proposal. In preparation for that, I shall now suspend the sitting for five minutes until 2.05 p.m.
