ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the VSO Simplification financing (31289, No. 435). First of all, I would like to welcome the teachers, whom I have not seen for a very long time. It's good to see you back in the room. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. Mr Rudmer Heerema is already ready for his input. I call Mr Pieter... No, why do I say "Pieter"? It's Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD! That is to say, I have been through Mr Pieter Heerma many times lately in the Chamber, in connection with corona. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u2	We also occasionally share a joint account, I notice in the restaurant. It's a good thing we use our first names sometimes, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is pleased that we have a veil on the scheme isolated schools, so that we still have some control over the implementation. The Minister wants to implement the regulation in a slightly different way than he promised the Chamber during the legal process. First of all, why does the Minister intend to add two tonnes less to the isolated schools scheme than we asked for? What effect does this have on the affected schools? Does the Minister agree with us that this creates problems for schools, which are suddenly faced with different implementation and with different amounts? I have a motion with GroenLinks, but Mr Westerveld of GroenLinks will propose it and submit it, so I will leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Rudmer Heerema. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead, Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can still have this debate, because it is about a financial regulation that is important for all schools, but even more so for schools in rural communities. As the Minister and colleagues know, I went to such a school myself. Apart from the fact that it is important for children to be able to take up education at a school that is somewhat nearby, keeping educational locations open is essential for the viability of rural areas. Because, of course, new families with children will not settle anywhere if there is no education nearby. We saw that the arrangement for isolated schools has worked out differently than we have been told before. That is why I have the next motion, indeed together with colleague Rudmer Heerema. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister worked out the rules of isolated schools differently from those of the Chamber during the technical briefing and legal treatment;]] [[Considering that the new development provides a lower rate of supplement to small isolated broad school communities by working with amounts per pupil rather than staffles;]] [[Considering that the new impact in total reduces the surcharge to small isolated broad school communities by reducing the surcharge for large school communities at a single location;]] [[Whereas the single-location surcharge for broad school communities and the surcharge for small isolated broad school communities serve different purposes and should therefore be able to be stacked;]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for both pupils and the region that isolated broad school communities are maintained and that the impact that has now been proposed does not contribute sufficiently to this;]] [[calls on the government to increase the maximum of €600,000 surcharge for a small isolated broad school community to the promised maximum of €800,000 by increasing the amount per pupil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u5	This motion is quite technical, but that is because we are talking about a technical issue, namely the elaboration of a financial regulation. Normally I try to write them in more understandable language.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to see you here again today, as always.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be a surcharge for broad school communities in a single location to promote equality of opportunity and counter segregation;]] [[Whereas broad school communities can also be organized as campus and therefore have two establishments;]] [[Whereas these campuses serve the same purpose as the supplement;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that broad school communities with two locations within a limited radius are equal to broad school communities in one location and pay them this surcharge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm still waiting for that one motion, but I can answer the question and the first motion. First of all, as regards the difference between what we discussed in the legal process and what ended up in the scheme: there is a very clear explanation for that. At the time when we had completed the legal process, we knew that there should also be a check by DUO, including feasibility and all aspects that are attached to it. That review was then carried out. That review showed that, with the way in which we set it up and had also discussed it with you, there was a great risk of abuse and misuse when working with a staffed system. For example, I would like to mention the incentive to put students on "unpaid" or even refuse students if their arrival would have an adverse effect on the stairs in which you would end up. Even one learner more could be the difference and could mean that you're going to get into another stauffel and get much less money. In the end, that's why we set it up in a different way. I knew there was a veil. So I knew you'd be aware of that. Moreover, I am not disappointed by the fact that you took the veil seriously and asked questions about it. As you know, we have also answered it. These are, in themselves, justified points. This has been taken into account, even though we know that the final path of growth is of course very long and that we are also going to work towards a certain situation. That's why it happened, not more, but not less. I can give the motion judgment Chamber, but I would add one thing to that for anyone who might want to appreciate this motion positively. Eventually this is financed from the lumpsum. So the other schools are paying for this increase. That may only be a very small part, but it is a consequence of carrying out this motion. But I can give the motion itself judgment Chamber, because I can also follow the reasoning behind it. Mr Van Meenen's motion seems very sympathetic. I also think that the reasons why he tabled the motion deserve the same appreciation. But I think it would be a good thing to say the following, including the effects that the adoption of this motion could have on practice. Campuses with multiple locations, of course if they have enough students, already get several fixed feet in the basic cost for those establishments. They are thus already served quite well in a manner of speaking. It is, of course, in principle an option in this situation to provide additional funding for large establishments as you intend to do in your motion, but the schools that have registered everything neatly at one location will in fact be punished. There could even be an indirect incentive to split up that establishment in order to get more money. First of all, because of the fact that in the basic benefit of sufficient pupils with multiple fixed feet enough funding is already being paid and secondly because of the effect that this can have on the schools that have registered and organized it all neatly at one location, I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u11	A brief question, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u12	I am generally very sensitive to perverse incentives, but if two schools are similar to each other and together form a school community, albeit at two addresses, in a kind of campus, I do not think it is possible to say: then we are going to adapt that building situation to meet this stimulus. I don't see anything in front of me that you're gonna split your building in half. It can't be that easy. The other way around, of course, this is very much the nature of what is envisaged in the scheme. After all, it is in fact just a broad school community. Does the Minister agree with me and is he therefore prepared to accept this motion after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u13	When it comes to what is possible and what is not possible, do not mistake the possibilities of working with two addresses or creating an extra house number and so on. There are simply opportunities to break down into practice in this way and to be covered by this wider regime. That behavior may provoke you. The schools you're referring to may choose to do so, which is a choice they have to register the campus as a single establishment, which may mean that there is a wide range of establishments, which you ultimately aim to do. The fact that they now opt for a construction that there are multiple locations on paper is a trade-off that they themselves have made. The distance between locations is of course also quite arbitrary: 50 meters, 100 meters. That will also lead to discussion. This is also very complicated in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr Van Meenen, very briefly and finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u15	Yes, Chairman, finally. If a school or school community is located at one address, there is no incentive under this scheme to split up. Right, you'd say not, 'cause then you'll get extra resources. That would at most be the incentive to go to two fixed feet. That's a completely different arrangement. The motion has been deliberately formulated so that the Minister himself can fill in what is a limited distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u16	I don't think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr President, this is about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u18	Everything is about something here, but I have the impression that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u19	I understand that time goes on as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u20	I do not think that this really leads to a different view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u21	Well, if that's the criterion for interruptions, then we can close the place down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u22	Not at all. You have tabled a motion and you can simply put it to the vote. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr President, I gave my opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u24	Exactly. That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u25	In the end, you are right: the Chamber can decide on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u26	And you fought like a lion, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u27	As long as that gets into the Acts, Mr President! And it wasn't up to you, either, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u28	That will certainly be in the Acts. It wasn't up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u29	We wait for Mr Van den Berge and then we continue with the next VAO.
