ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u1	I will reopen the meeting and ask the Members to take their place. The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the VWS Minister and the Minister for Medical Care. Also a welcome to the MPs and the viewers at home. I agree with Members that they ask up to four questions or make comments against each other in the first period and therefore four questions or comments against the directors. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has announced substantial relaxations and the VVD is pleased to see what can be relaxed continuously. If we can do it sooner or if we can do more, we can do it. That's good. It's nice that we can welcome people back home, that we can go back to events and that we don't have to rush anymore when we're in the catering industry. I think everyone is happy that in the summer hopefully with nice weather in most cases we are rid of the mouth caps. The VVD is also pleased that there is no longer so much micromanagement and that we are going to steer more on a number of main measures. The finish of the Bonkevaart is in sight and we passed Bartlehiem for the second time. But we'd really like to bring that cross in. That is why we must remain alert and, in the coming period, stick to the one-and-a-half meter rule and the other basic rules. Mr. Chairman. That this is not so easy, it turns out daily. Most young people just stick to the rules, but there are also groups that stick together in parks and on the beach and then start rioting against the police. That is, of course, unacceptable. Everyone is giving young people a well-deserved holiday during this difficult period, but also a small part of it comes back from Spain or Portugal with infections, including those that are worrying. Everyone must continue to behave responsibly abroad as well. Following the example of others, I call upon this group to be tested. The Minister has indicated that this can be done. My first question to the cabinet is: how can we take further action on this? Adults will also go on vacation of course. Is it sufficiently secure that it will not give us a new wave from September? Is there, for example, a test street at Schiphol Airport, where passengers can be tested 24/7, 24 hours a day, seven days a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u4	About those kids... I saw that Mrs De Vries called it "stupid and irresponsible" on Twitter that young people from Mallorca came back with corona, also with frightening variants. What is the political responsibility in this? It's been the majority of this room that made sure you can just go to Mallorca without going into quarantine. And yes, the moment you know you can go to Mallorca or Ibiza and you're 16 or 17, Mrs. De Vries knows what's gonna happen, doesn't she? Tongues with a random unknown is a bit tricky at 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u5	However, I assume that there is also a personal responsibility of people there to comply with the rules as best as possible. That it doesn't always work... I understand that young people might do that on vacation, but then I say, when you come back, let them test you. That was also an appeal from the Minister. That possibility is also offered, even if you have no complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u6	There is, of course, a step ahead, which is a step in which the politicians decide that it is fine to send 16- and 17-year-olds to Mallorca without going into quarantine when they come back. Isn't it a little easy to put those rules yourself and then, when young people who have spent a year in jail come back with corona, say: you are really being extremely irresponsible? You can see that coming, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u7	I do not know what Mr Kwint is now advocating. Does he want to prevent people from going abroad? I wouldn't be for that. I think you should look very carefully at the situation. The experts indicate whether it is justified to travel somewhere or not. But if you get that space, it'll ask you to deal with it responsibly. Quite frankly, I see a lot of young people doing this in a really good way and getting tested. I'd also like to call the rest of you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u8	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u9	Mr. Chairman. We see that the infections are mainly among the 12 to 18 year olds. The VVD would be ready to voluntarily vaccinate this group this summer. That is in view of the total vaccination rate, but we also think that it is important for schools after the summer holidays to take this step. When is the advice of the Health Council to be expected and is everyone in the starting blocks to implement the policy? Mr. Chairman. We're going into a new phase from July, which we've all dreamed of. The cabinet wants to extend the measures provided for in the Temporary Law measures covid-19 on 1 September, with the exception of curfew. This is not to maintain all the measures, but to be able to use the dormant measures quickly in the event of outbreaks. The VVD understands that choice. However, the VVD wonders whether regional measures could be taken to kick out local fireplaces, as the Minister always says. In this sense, the VVD does not understand very well the putting aside of the legislative proposal on the power of closure for companies and public places. Isn't that what it's meant to do to deal with the infection sites? When does the OMT advise on this? Mr. Chairman. We hope for a nice summer in which we can travel more. There may be more and more, but we need to stay alert. The minister says that the call team calls 100% of the people fleeing Brazil, India and other high-risk countries about the quarantine obligation. From the report of Nieuwsuur, however, came a different picture. How's that? When is it clear what action each country will take on the basis of the European Council recommendations on travel? Today, the app for the corona certificate starts. There was already a run on it. I would like to call on you not to do all that today, because then I don't think it's going well. Just wait till you get your last vaccination. How well prepared are we all for that? Things went a little wrong today. Are we still on schedule?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u10	Thank you. Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u11	It is of course very nice that we can do it today with the corona certificate and that we can also make many things possible again, from discotheques to access events that were not possible before. People can let go of the five-foot radius. A question I do have, also lives in the hospitality industry. When we get to the quarterfinals later and they want to organize an event in the evening to watch football together without 1.5 meters, according to the current rules they have to stay completely closed for the rest of the day, because you can't just open with 1.5 meters in one day and organize such an event in the evening. Would you also be in favour of us making it possible for you to do both? In between, of course, everyone has to go outside for a while, but it would make sure that it is not a huge burden for the catering industry to make such an access event possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u12	The first condition is that we win Sunday, of course. That's what we're all hoping for. I have already indicated that I find micromanaging the cabinet complicated on some of those kinds of rules. I see again that it becomes difficult to enforce. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees it, in view of the persistence of such an option. I think it is a very sympathetic option, but it must be feasible for the various authorities to enforce it. Mr. Chairman. Then some loose questions. How are the Netherlands and the European countries preparing for the possible arrival of antivirals against corona for people who cannot or do not want to be vaccinated? A number of pharmaceutical companies are already working on it. What is being done in the field of boosters and vaccines in 2022 and 2023? Are we all set for that? A lot of questions came in about mixing vaccines, so after a first shot of AstraZeneca a second other shot. When will the opinion of the Health Council appear on this matter? The catch-up. To what extent are we going to make it at the end of 2021, beginning 2022, to actually achieve this? Finally. We are approaching the finish line on the Bonkevaart, but that is no reason to slacken, even in terms of attention in the summer from the drivers. Let's stay alert. There are still risks, such as the delta variant and the taking of the virus by travellers. If it is necessary, we must be able to maintain it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u13	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u14	Mrs De Vries says a number of times that she hopes that we will stop micromanagement, so I'll make it a little bigger right away. Last week, the House of Representatives adopted a motion from PvdA, GroenLinks and a number of other parties calling on the government to support President Joe Biden's appeal. He says we have to lift the opposition to the patents. We must therefore ensure that patents can be released so that other countries can increase their production capacity. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries what the VVD is so opposed to. Why does the VVD always vote against this kind of motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u15	I'd like a solution to the problem. The problem, in my opinion, is that there are currently too few vaccines for the whole world. I think production capacity is one of the major problems. The second problem is raw materials. We will not solve these problems with this proposal. Then I think it's a bit of a sham solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u16	I object to that. There are a lot of countries that have sufficient production capacity. They just can't make the vaccines because there are patents like this. Then I'd like to ask the VVD again. If countries indicate that they have production capacity, why does the VVD not agree with us, and with a whole other part of this Chamber, that we should make sure that they can make them too? In her own plea, Mrs De Vries states that it is a major problem that changes from several other countries are included in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u17	If there's production capacity somewhere and they can produce it, I'd love to hear it. We can see in practice that it is not that simple. So let us do everything possible to use this production capacity as widely as possible and also try to solve the problem of raw materials. I really do see the problem that we need to produce more vaccines, including for the rest of the world. That is very important, also with regard to the variants, but it must be a real solution. I do not think this will ultimately contribute to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u18	I have one more comment. There's a solution. Countries such as Bangladesh have also indicated that they can produce but cannot. So I'm gonna think about what we can do here. There are countries with sufficient production capacity, but they are not allowed to produce vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u19	It's a very nice analogy, "we've passed Bartlehim, we're going on the Bonkevaart now," although I don't think you've ever skated the Elfstedentocht yourself. Of course, you can use that analogy just fine, although it's a bit like a military award. You shouldn't wear it if you haven't fought. Anyway, we arrived at that Bonkevaart and we are at the finish line, but this cabinet is happy to announce that after the summer vacation we have to skate that Eleven Cities Tour again. Aren't you afraid of that? What are you going to do about it as a coalition partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u20	We have indicated that it is important that there are a lot of relaxations. I think that's a good thing. But I have also indicated that on a number of points we should still be alert. It's not like we're done with everything now. Of course, we still have some frightening variants. There's gonna be more traveling later. As far as I am concerned, we are putting aside as many measures as possible, provided that it is justified and the epidemiological situation allows it. I know you're in a different way. It's okay. However, I think that we should remain alert, even this summer, to see if we can prevent us from getting into trouble again in the autumn and taking action again. I really wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u21	We don't want any of that, but it's being announced here. We know so much more about this virus by now. We know that it's just an annual virus that's been among us for thousands of years and that's actually less bothering us than we thought at the time. The IFR has now been scaled back nationwide to 0.15%. This virus is now similar to a heavy, heavy flu. If this cabinet, if it is still there, decides again to take all kinds of measures to combat this virus, do you agree with me that we should also coordinate these measures? Then we won't get another lockdown, not another five feet, not those crazy mouth caps, not that we don't shake hands, but just a normal policy, just like we have with the flu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u22	I think Mr Van Haga and I are not going to agree. I think he's playing it down again. I think we have seen the disastrous consequences and what we still have to deal with, including in healthcare, in catching-up care and recovery care. I regret that Mr Van Haga closes his eyes to this. We do not agree on that. I really hope that we do not have to take these measures again. I think vaccination is the way out of this corona crisis. I would therefore like everyone to be vaccinated as much as possible. That is why I have also indicated that I would consider it important that we should also allow young people from 12 years of age to be vaccinated voluntarily, of course. But, yes, I really think Mr Van Haga is playing it down. I'm just on a whole different line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u23	Finally. Of course we don't agree; we already knew that. But the disastrous consequences of this virus are of course not the result of the virus itself, but of the measures. I'd like to give you that. Can we at least look carefully at the measures next time, if you are still in power? Because the collateral damage you have caused is enormous: the medical collateral damage, the cultural collateral damage and the economic collateral damage. We're gonna have to deal with that for years, so I'm just gonna give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u24	I realize there is collateral damage. But I also see the people who continue to have long-term complaints when they have had the virus. Long covid is really not pleasant for people; it is terrible if you have to deal with it for a long time. I think that Mr Van Haga closes his eyes to that, and I think we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u25	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u26	I would just like to say a few words on an issue which has also been reviewed during previous debates. That's the interval between the two shots. We have had several discussions with the Minister on this. The Health Council gave an opinion on this. Now we see the so-called delta variant, which is advancing in certain parts of the world, including Portugal and Great Britain. The English study shows that if the interval is not based on the instructions of the pharmaceutical itself, the risk of contamination by the delta variant is increased. Do you not agree that we have made a mistake in the past by not following the instructions of the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u27	I do not know if what Mr Kuzu says is entirely true. I think that they are fairly well protected against the delta variant at the time when they have had the second shot. I am very much in favour of getting that second shot as soon as possible. I would also like to call on anyone who has had that first shot: go quickly and get that second shot, and don't leave it, because you think: I have some protection now. But we've been dealing with scarcity, unfortunately. I understand the choice that was made at the time, namely that we said: let us give as much as possible all that first shot to provide some protection. Of course, I would have liked to give everyone that second shot as soon as possible, in accordance with the pace that it has. But we were dealing with scarcity and delivery problems; unfortunately we could not solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u28	Let me make a brief point of order. We have made an inventory through the clerk of whether there is a need for votes after the debate. We have found that nobody needs it, so we assume that there will be no votes at the end of this debate. Otherwise, I'd like to hear it now. Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u29	Mr. Chairman. Mrs de Vries mentioned the Elfstedentocht. Of course, it's about a flat route. Angela Merkel said we're on thin ice, but the past year reminded me of a heavy mountain stage in the Tour de France, with those steep climbs, where after a while we came to that third wave of the highest category. Thanks to good material the finish line is now in sight. It's a drop that's going at full speed, but dropping fast with many turns isn't always without risk. So, as in the previous debate, I say: we are not here yet. It remains a matter of vaccinating, vaccinating, vaccinating. Because in more and more countries the number of contaminations with the delta variant is increasing. We see restraint in England. Yesterday there were 16,500 infections there. We see it in Portugal and Germany. In the Netherlands this variant also quickly becomes dominant, with some of the infections coming from travellers. So I ask the Minister: have we now sufficiently sealed the risks to slow down the entry and spread of this variant? I hear, for example, that when you enter Schiphol from England, nobody actually asks for the quarantine certificate. How's that? Can we not give standard vacationers at airports the chance to get tested, as Mrs De Vries of the VVD just said? And can't we vaccinate those who haven't been pricked without an appointment? Then we'll take a test at Schiphol... a shot and go. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the OMT says that, despite the delta variant, it is more flexible. This means that we will soon get a lot of freedoms back, that there will soon be loyal supporters on the sidelines again, that music lovers like Mr.Kwint and Mrs.Westerveld will be on the festival grounds and that young people can be together without any worries. O.M.T.'s gonna tell us we're gonna have to hang in there for a while. So where did the Minister's advice come from that we can get back to work? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. With free testing, vaccination, but also ventilation, we can wisely hold our freedom. O.M.T.'s gonna tell us we're gonna have to hang in there for a while. So where did the Minister's advice come from that we can get back to work? I'd like to hear a response to that. Mr. Chairman. With free testing, vaccination, but also ventilation, we can wisely hold our freedom. Only ventilation was never mentioned at the last press conference. And that's when we're gonna close the windows right now because it's getting hotter, and we're gonna put on air conditioning. Can the ministers promise that they will now actively carry ventilation towards the Netherlands? Because this becomes very important, for example in dance cafés and discotheques. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely the vaccinees who are well protected from the variants. The enthusiasm for the shot is great and you see the willingness increase. That's very good for me. I myself have also had the shot and I can highly recommend that everyone take it. However, I still have a few specific questions about this. First of all, many people would like a mRNA vaccine after a shot of AstraZeneca. More and more other countries are doing the same, and the figures that Jaap van Dissel showed yesterday actually gave rise to this. Can we give people that option? Two. In America, millions of teenagers have already been vaccinated, and we still have to start doing so. Like Mrs de Vries, let us do so quickly. When does the Health Council come up with the advice on this? And very important is also the question: can we also start immediately opening vaccinations for those 12-plussers? Three. The OMT advises that vaccinees do not have to keep a distance between themselves, even at home. Yet in the guidelines for everyone, 1.5 meters remains the standard, also at home. Why is that? The House asked for clarification on this in May. Four. There's a lot of confusion about the registration. Not everyone is in MyRIVM. With how many people is the registration not ready in time for the vaccination certificate? People report me being pricked three weeks ago, but not yet in MyRIVM. RIVM is a few weeks behind schedule, the GGD Amsterdam reported. Mr. Chairman. When is the time when we can donate structural vaccines? Is there a clear schedule in which we can see when and how much? Finally. The cabinet, the OMT and the Security Council are now going on the watch flaming in terms of corona. But how are the Dutch kept informed? Who's what? How fast is the response? On a possible new wave, the Minister says he might see it coming in the autumn. How soon will they react if that possible new wave arrives in the summer? For I hope that we will remain alert in the coming period, and that this period will also be used to talk to scientists and ethicists about autumn, and about, for example, the question: when are measures still proportionate? And, under what circumstances would you actually set a lockdown? Or are you saying we shouldn't do that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u30	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week the king visited the most beautiful Oranjestraat in the Netherlands, here in The Hague. He shook people's hands, took them in the picture and had fun. Great! Give that man a ribbon, I'd say. All over the Netherlands the fun comes back, and the old normally happy as well. And when Prime Minister Rutte says that if we want to watch football together at home, we have to keep a distance of five feet, and everyone laughs at him. That too is: back to the old normal. Mr. Chairman. Corona never leaves, but the corona crisis is really long over. Hospitals are empty. And that's what it was all about, isn't it? By now, 14 million pricks have been put in place, which also prevent further transmission of the virus. The number of infectious cellars is massive, and the R is well below 1. And all vaccines prevent hospitalizations, including the advancing delta variant. There is therefore no justification whatsoever for any measure, but no justification whatsoever. Mr. Chairman. Dozens of times I indicated that corona mainly spreads through breath, via aerogenic transmission. And renowned institutions such as the American CDC, the bigger brother of our RIVM, and the World Health Organization agree. Outside, the risk of contamination is virtually nil and therefore the one-and-a-half meter measure is unnecessary. And because there are so few infectious agents and the vaccination rate is so high, the risks of infections inside are now also incredibly small. So, Mr. Secretary, cut the one-and-a-half-meter dictatorship, right away! Mr. Chairman. In October, half the Chamber fell over me when I said that most of the corona patients in the ICU departments of our four major cities and also some other cities, are non-Western immigrants. They were very careful about the rules and they were not enforced. Many infections and much suffering could have been avoided. I have stressed every time, and I do so again, that there must always be voluntary vaccination. But: I am afraid when I read that where 80% of the natives are willing to join, only 43% of the immigrants are willing to join. It goes far too far for Minister De Jonge to call on healthy children from 12 to 17 years old to be vaccinated, thereby increasing that vaccination rate by 3%. I'm against that. I would like to say to the Minister: do your best to reach adult immigrants and other groups with low vaccination readiness, so not the children, but them, so that your fear of corona coming back in the autumn actually diminishes. Mr. Chairman. Then the big problems in regular care. Scaling it has a huge impact. I've talked to the Minister of Medical Care many times about it. I'll give you a few figures. Hundreds of people died after accidents because they couldn't get on the ICUs. 140,000 surgeries had to be postponed, including 2,000 complex cancer operations. Cancer patients who could end up in hospital later than otherwise developed tumours that were at an advanced stage, such as those with skin cancer who received metastases in the brain. There are countless, terrible examples. This is "I can't help but repeat the shocking result of Rutte's undressing of health care for years, closing hospitals by the VVD, firing instead of hiring additional care workers, not raising the salary of health care workers, making the job more attractive. The cabinet is crying crocodile tears now. I want to know from the Cabinet, from the Minister of Medical Care, exactly when all these delayed operations have been overtaken. I don't want any more vague lyrics. I don't want any more big plans. I want clarity. When will all these problems be solved? When can the people at home, who haven't had a delayed operation, face them? When and where can we pay you? And how much more are you going to invest in healthcare? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA is also pleased that the figures are falling, so that care workers get air and new relaxations are introduced. Entrepreneurs want to do business again, young people want to party and young and old want to meet people indefinitely. But we also see the concerns of neighbouring countries about the extent to which the measures are being relaxed. The CDA shares this concern, because no one wants to get back into the situation that we are no longer allowed to visit loved ones. Rather small steps forward than a step back. Hence the following questions. The basic measures, keeping away, washing hands, testing and staying at home, remain in force. In reply to my question to Mr Van Dissel at the beginning of this year, he said that the results would be spectacular if everyone were to abide by them. But only 51% are tested for complaints, 34% wash hands and 63% stay away. What exactly is the Minister going to do? Are there only new digital tools to support that behavior? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. More entrepreneurs can open up access tests, but those locations are often not easy to reach. The CDA therefore wants, in addition to having mobile vaccine buses, also mobile access test buses, which are just in the centre of the cities. So if you want to go to the disco, you can take a bus like that. I'd like a response from the Minister. We are seeing the rapid development of the delta variant, which is already very much present in the United Kingdom. Dutch youngsters celebrate in Spain with English youngsters and thus bring the virus with them, as the letter also shows. What does the Minister of the CDA idea think about making it compulsory to test everyone when they return?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u34	Interruption by Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u35	About the testing. Isn't it much smarter to embrace the old SP proposal, which is: just let yourself be tested on all those test streets that are already there? If we take over the CDA's proposal, we'll have test streets in case you have any complaints, test streets in case you want to go somewhere, and then in between we'll have another test bus, which will also take tests, while basically the capacity of the GGD is large enough to do all of that and almost everyone has such a test site in their area. Wouldn't that be a smarter and cheaper solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u36	Two things about that. First of all, I understand that the GGD must keep a certain reserve capacity to always monitor the virus. So you can't make the entire GGD capacity available for that. Now we are talking on the one hand about travel tests and on the other hand about access tests. This cannot therefore be mixed because of tendering procedures. We find that extremely regrettable. Let me leave it at that. We would have preferred that with the SP something different decorated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u37	We had that chance with the test law. That was the moment we could have said: boys, bring that down to the GGD, for example. But if you see the contagion rates now and the number of people getting tested, and if you know how much the GGD can test, what they've proven lately, then you can easily park those two other tasks without having to reorganise them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u38	We have understood from the Minister, and otherwise we would like to hear his response again.The GGD is really focused on testing people with complaints and that that is the first task under the law. That you also look at what is or is not possible, the Minister has done these access testing locations separately. We are only sorry that we also have a tender for the travel tests. We regret that this has to be done purely because of procurement rules. However, we also asked the necessary questions yesterday in the discussion on the annual report as to why unnecessary procurement is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u39	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for the record: the idea of only mandatory testing when returning to the Netherlands applies only to people who do not have DCC and to people from yellow countries. Quarantine is only mandatory for very high risk countries. But are all people really being called up, we understood that we did, or is it just a sample? We'd like to hear that confirmed. What action is being taken against the 30% that is now making a pot of it? The technical briefing showed that 30% of people or do not pick up a phone, or have given up a fake number and simply cannot be reached. I'd like a response to that. We also understand from the letter that the entry ban from outside the EU is no longer valid for full vaccination. But how is the reliability of these vaccination certificates checked? Mr. Chairman. I receive many emails from 60-plussers who have had the first Astrarik and now wonder why they are less protected than their children who have had a Pfizer prick. In addition, some are particularly vulnerable because they have had cancer for example in the past year. Other countries allow a mixed shot. How does the Minister see that? And why are seriously ill patients, like someone I know with a skull-base fracture that's been in a coma for weeks, discharged from the hospital without a shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u41	That last question is, of course, quite justified, as is the case with the home pickers who are still waiting. Does Mrs Van den Berg now argue that people who do not want a second Astra are automatically eligible for Pfizer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u42	I understand that several countries are doing this in the meantime. I also get a lot of e-mails from people who say: I would like to, because that Pfizer prick gives even higher protection. So the question is whether it is medically justified to mix the stings. Since other countries do so, I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Second. If the Minister says that it would not be a medical problem, then I would like to know whether people do indeed have the freedom to make that choice, because a lot of people who did not want to have that Astrarik at the beginning have now finally been given the choice to get another shot at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u43	I also think it is a dilemma, because Astra is just a fantastic vaccine. At the same time, I see that there is a large group that does not take it and that the vaccination rate therefore decreases. I think it is therefore wise that the Health Council should make a new weighting and that that report should be coming soon. So I have heard you correctly and I await the Minister's answers. I hope that report from the Health Council comes soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u44	Let me say first of all that I fully agree with Mrs Kuik. Especially when the vaccinations were limited: just prick away, everything there is. As a CDA, we have always supported the fact that this Astraprik was also given to 60-year-olds up to 64-year-olds. Mr. Chairman. It is good that more vaccines are going to Suriname, because it is important that the whole world is vaccinated as quickly as possible, both out of charity and also out of self-interest. But the question is whether there are enough vaccines in Suriname now. Mr. Chairman. It's nice that radio commercials have now started to register as a healthcare reservist. The CDA, together with the PVV, has been advocating this for a long time. Thank you also to the Minister for his attention on my request for sewer measurements so that we can see at an early stage how the virus is developing. But what about ventilation? The letter says that the OMT stresses the importance of good ventilation, but what is the Minister going to do? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of my motion of 24 March and the answer to my questions of 24 May? The Minister writes that he wants to inform the Chamber in September about the future approach to corona care. That's what the CDA thinks is a bit late, precisely because we think we should be fully prepared, should there still be a new wave coming. How does the minister with all the knowledge we have now look at concentration of that corona care in some locations? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u45	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u46	"We are really taking a big step now, one of the biggest steps in Europe, while we are still on the high side in terms of contamination," said the Prime Minister at the last press conference. He said it in a way like this was a confidence-building announcement. Where we are happy when more can be done, there are certainly still concerns. Why? Because we are not doing as well as the Prime Minister has said in terms of contagion. Despite all the vaccination tweets and self-congratulations, we are still not doing very well compared to the rest of Europe. That's not a popular message I realize, especially during an European Championship, but that's where part of our concern comes from. Isn't this going down in view of the finish line? The honest answer, of course, is: we do not know that. I'm not pretending to know that either. The concerns do come from somewhere, for example from the hassle surrounding the quarantine project, as we could see at Nieuwsuur again. Since when is the ANWB an organization specializing in calling people in quarantine? How did the ANWB suddenly get in there? What does it have to do with a quarantine obligation? Is it true that in the meantime the impressive number of 17 fines has been awarded for a total of 19 million? Another concern is, of course, still with the contagion rates, and I have just mentioned it with Mrs De Vries when it comes to blaming individuals for the wrong choices that are made collectively here. Care also comes from the infections in England and a new lockdown in Lisbon. So I ask the cabinet how it monitors that and what it knows about it. Do you only see rising infections there? Do you see that in the end, for example, the vaccination rate means that the number of people who end up in a hospital or who actually die remains very low? Is it really just the delta variant that causes these kinds of increases or not? Why is the Netherlands doing so much worse in terms of contamination than Germany, for example? If the Minister says that it is still uncertain when the Indian variant will replace the British, does that mean that the cabinet has no doubt that this will eventually happen? What we expect from a cabinet is that a plan is in place and that everything is ready for when the bad scenario comes out, when we suddenly face a rise in a new variant with consequences that are more serious than we have estimated. What measures will be taken? Do we then ensure that the source and contact research and the test capacity are not fully scaled down and that we then lose time building it up again? Just a few more questions about the schools. How is the balance sheet up to now, since high schools opened up? For example, how many clusters have emerged in secondary schools since the last relaxation? I hear from schools that send back the self-tests or already no longer order them, because they get tired of having to pick them out of the bushes around the school every day after school. How does the government so far assess the condition that each student and each teacher should be tested twice a week? What percentage of schools does that make? And do we see, for example, a shift in the number of positive tests within the profession of teachers? Because there is a concern there; the safety of teachers must really be at the heart of it. Then higher education. They do get a very special assignment: they have to prepare for two scenarios, with or without 1.5 meters, and one week before the time comes, they get to know which of those two it is going to be. And yes, I really don't think that's possible. You can't send teachers to colleges and universities into summer, not after a year of double shifts, of all the terrible things to improvise with online education, with guidance and all that stuff. Those people are exhausted. And preparing two scenarios means doing everything double: your schedules behind hand, your room reservations, the layout of your working hours. What opportunities does the cabinet see to make this easier for teachers in higher education? And finally, paying for being sick. But before I get there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u47	I think that is a very fair question from Mr Kwint. He's also the Education Spokesman. But doesn't he think it's a little cynical that you can go to the club, and not just go to college? So if you had the choice, what would you prefer? We have constantly said that education must be the first to open up. And now it actually connects last. And I'm just taking advantage of you to pass these questions on to the cabinet, but I'd still like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u48	I'd like to lend myself for that, because it's a fair point. But it is actually a point that our two parties have been making for six months. We are making other choices when it comes to the reopening of society. I would have thought it would have made more sense if you had been able to get back to college before you could go to Primark. That's not the choice the cabinet made. Yes, I regret that, and I am curious to hear the answers of the cabinet to your questions to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u49	It is, of course, rather silly of Mr Kwint to say that once you identify a problem, you would blame it on that group. That's not what I said. But my question is as follows. I heard Mr Kwint say: I see a large number of risks. But what solution does he see? So what's the solution? That people shouldn't travel anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u50	Well, my solution... We have said, for example, in the debate on the quarantine obligation: that is a crazy intermediate solution. Yeah, that's right. The moment you don't want people to travel, you make sure they don't travel. The moment you do want people to travel, you let them travel. But when you want people not to fly anywhere, for example, a flight ban has my preference over the quarantine obligation, yes. But also because, and that's the point of principle, you individualize a collective choice. So what you're actually saying is, you can only fly if you can afford to stay home for ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u51	Yes, but this is not about the quarantine obligation, because this is about countries where someone is allowed to travel, where there is still a virus, of course, but from which people with quite a lot of viruses and variants who are worried come back. The question is, then, what is your solution? 'Cause I don't suppose you're saying, "Let's get a quarantine order for that." But you don't think it's a problem at all, do you? Or are you saying that these young people, and later the adults too, should not go on a journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u52	Well, for example, testing on return would be quite a step, indeed. I mean, that's not such a complicated measure. Furthermore, I do think that there is quite a bit of a situation in which, as far as travel advice is concerned, a positive assessment is to be made. If you see dozens of people with a variant that we didn't have so much here then, coming back from vacation, I think that's pretty risky, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u53	Then Mr Kwint indeed says that we have to put much more on orange and red and that people should not travel because there are a number of people who bring the virus back. Then he also lets those who handle it in a very good way suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u54	It is the essence of the whole corona policy that we all bear the consequences of the choice that some people or large groups of people make. The same applies to the basic rules. This also applies to keeping the 1.5 meter distance. We're all affected if some people don't stick to that. I'm not saying people can't fly to Mallorca anymore. I am saying that I find it too easy to relax first and then speak shame of people going there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u55	Let's talk about higher education. In any case, I am very happy to see that those introduction weeks can go without 1.5 meters because we are going to test and apply vaccination certificates, so that everyone after a test can simply participate fully in that introweek. A lot of students really missed that last year. I think we both want to have the whole of higher education open again without 1.5 metres, but I can also imagine that we do not know exactly what the situation would look like. Then we should agree that higher education, like the introduction weeks, will open without a foot and a half, if necessary with those tickets. Would Mr Kwint be in favour of that? Or does he say, "We have to hold the five feet for a while"? But then the students will be home for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u56	I do find it difficult to get tickets because education under that test law is not the only crucial sector added for nothing. That is the fundamental distinction with the other sectors identified by the Test Act. You just have to go to an educational institution when you're enrolled. In fact, if you don't show up or you don't show up too often, you can be unwritten. And that makes it complicated for me. What I really want is for the Cabinet to do everything in its power to be more clear. If that means we can open up again: please, yes, of course, please. But just a week before that, I find too many questions from the teaching staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u57	I get that. That test law says, of course, that if everyone does not want to take part in these tests, everyone has the right to follow education at a distance. So that's a difference. I can already see an MBO school saying: we are more likely to offer distance education. Then I think that is exactly the wrong lesson for the last year and a half. Students who are stuck in rooms at home, we really shouldn't keep it that much longer. That is why the question is: would you prefer to go to college or school for another 1.5 metres and so only one or two days a week, or would you rather use those tickets in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u58	I'm just saying that I'm not just gonna say that I want to make a negative test certificate conditional for access to an educational institution. What I am particularly looking for is more clarity so that the teaching staff does not have to prepare two scenarios for an entire summer. When it is safe, I fully agree with you that it is preferable to reopen as soon as possible. I think we are in complete agreement on this mbo setting. I really do not know how to reach that conclusion after a short and a half years of corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u59	I would like to return to the concerns expressed by Mr Kwint about travel policy and what is coming into the country. We have just asked the Minister: is it an idea to require the testing of anyone who enters the airport from a yellow country and does not have a digital corona certificate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u60	I don't think it's a bad idea to reopen that test street at Schiphol. In fact, last October, at least last year at the end of the summer when it suddenly closed to our stupid surprise, we advocated keeping it open, because it was a very strange step. So I can imagine something that if you travel to a yellow area, you know that it has a consequence, namely that you have to show a test or a vaccination certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u61	So we're talking about coming back. So people come back from a yellow country to the Netherlands. At that time, there is no obligation. We say: when you arrive at the airport, it seems useful to us that if you don't have a digital test certificate you will still be tested. 'Cause if you've already been vaccinated twice and everything, it stays out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u62	Maybe that wasn't clear at first. Indeed, that seems very useful to me, yes, absolutely. Finally, paying for being sick. In the Netherlands, we have the crazy system that increases our own risk based on the cost of care. In recent years, a lot of people have become ill. So that could mean that the next year's risk will increase even further. Look, you know our opinion about our own risk: fine on being sick, abolish it right away. But at least next year we should freeze our own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u63	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u64	Mr. Chairman. It will be the summer of love, from the Milkshake Festival to stroll on Mallorca. I love that it's all possible again, all these freedoms, but at the same time I still have some worries. The delta variant is becoming increasingly dominant in a number of other countries around us, and also in Amsterdam, for example, we are seeing those numbers rise. Of course we have the advantage of Pfizer and the effect of the summer season, but at the same time there are still a lot of people who haven't had a second shot, including myself. And there are vulnerable neighborhoods where the vaccination rate really leaves something to be desired. Moreover, the vulnerable young people have not yet taken their turn and a decision has yet to be taken on how we deal with the pricking of 12- to 17-year-olds. I am in favour of this, but of course we are still waiting for the opinion of the Health Council. That's why I'm asking questions. Is the cabinet sufficiently prepared for a new wave? Is there enough test, source and contact research available, even at the time it comes back to life? On the basis of what values do we decide whether action should be taken again? Why now, for example, decide to stop the provision of oral and nasal caps for carers via the pharmacy, and not just let that rule go through until 1 September, because then we will have a better view of what is going to happen in the coming months? Which strategy do we choose? I don't expect a very big wave, perhaps for the whole of the Netherlands, but we don't know that yet. Are we sufficiently prepared to really check out locally or regionally, so that we do not have to go into a national lockdown? That was not the strategy of the cabinet before, but I hope that we have learned from the lessons of the past and are now committed to them. Mr. Chairman. The registrations are going well at the moment, but there are still concerns. People are now massively uploading the QR code. I think it remains a point of attention in the coming days and weeks to see whether everyone can actually access it. At the same time, I still believe in the power of the yellow book. Not a week goes by without me teasing the Minister. The G.D.D.s are doing it now, the G.P.s are doing it now, but the hospitals aren't. A lot of people want that, too. Can't we just fix that? Think of the red pencil and the ballot boxes: yellow booklets when it comes to vaccination policy. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. So we have a summer of glory, but it also creates some unwanted effects. That's how I hear that the GGDs don't actually do STDs anymore, because they don't have capacity for that anymore. Well, that could be awkward if you had fun and didn't do that all the time. I'm also gonna go along with this under recovery care. In what way are we going to prevent that and get it picked up again? The same applies, of course, to the delay in general. Mrs Van Ark was very optimistic that we would be a long way off by the end of the year. I think we're gonna need a little longer than that. Mr Wilders has asked a number of questions about this. I'd like to join in on that. Finally. We need to learn lessons. It is not for nothing that we have adopted a motion to use the summer to see how we go further in the future. A Pandemic & Disaster Preparedness Center will be launched from Rotterdam, in collaboration with Delft. What is the state of play and when can we expect concrete results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u65	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After last Friday's press conference, I had my soccer practice. There the atmosphere was very exhilarating: "We can do things again." The mood was good: "We are allowed to go to parties again," which were already planned "and we are all looking forward to the carefree summer." But there is also another reality. The next day I visited the Canisius-Wilhelmina Hospital in Nijmegen, where I spoke with some nurses and doctors of intensive care. They would have looked at that press conference with very different eyes, even with abdominal pain, they told me. After almost one and a half years of hard work, double services, always being alert to the health of others but also to your own health, they see how the Netherlands will ease as the delta variant progresses quickly, a variant that initially seemed to be underestimated here. It's almost a rhetorical question, but I still want to ask it to the cabinet: where do we know that scenario of, that we underestimate variants? Mr. Chairman. As Machiavelli wrote, we must prepare for the battle in times of peace. It is extremely important that at this time, when more can be done, we also prepare ourselves for what may come, because the mutations are still a risk to the near future. I'll ask the Cabinet what plans are in place so that we don't have to go back into lockdown after the summer. How likely does the cabinet consider the scenario that Dutch people might want to go on vacation abroad, but that other countries say "hello, you are not coming in here" because the Netherlands colors deep dark red on the map of Europe? Mr. Chairman. In the context of preparing, I mention ventilation in schools. Last August, the Chamber adopted a motion from Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver, our colleagues, saying that the ventilation systems in schools should be improved. A project team was set up and there was a grant scheme. At the beginning of this month, after written questions from Minister Slob, we were told that adequate ventilation in all school buildings cannot be realized by autumn of this year. That is simply unbelievable, I say to both ministers who are dealing with health care. Can these directors indicate that there will be an urgent plan of action to achieve adequate ventilation in all schools in the Netherlands by autumn? Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about higher education. It appears that the website selftestonderwijs.nl will no longer accept new selftest applications from 1 August. This does not seem to me to be in line with the policy of the cabinet to use as much self-tests as possible. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. I would once again urge you to look beyond national borders. With a delta mutation that would already prevail in the Netherlands in July, we immediately see the effects of a failing international vaccine policy. Nevertheless, the cabinet remains committed to donation, while expert after expert opinion on the adverse effect of patents on corona vaccines. I ask again what needs to be done before we start to focus on maximizing production worldwide, and we are actively speaking about this rather than about donation. Just now, I would like to say, we need to put the public interest above the private profits of pharmaceuticals. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the debate on the origin of the coronavirus has also flared up again. Several intelligence agencies certainly don't rule out a lab accident. I ask the cabinet whether we agree that this needs to be investigated to the bottom. What is the government doing to contribute to this in an international context? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Finally, Mr President. It is essential that we prepare ourselves for what is to come in times of enlightenment. That means taking good care of the people in the front line. It also means that we have to look beyond our noses and prepare for different scenarios. I ask the Cabinet to do this well, to work with care, to involve us as a Chamber properly and to do whatever is necessary to prevent the next lockdown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u67	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, in the fight against the corona virus, we have reached a different stage. We can do virtually anything again from the next weekend, provided at that 1.5 meter distance. Of course, the Party for Animals also thinks this is good news. But we also want to consider the still vulnerable groups in our society: the group of 60- to 64-year-olds, who are still waiting for that second AstraZenecaprik, the thirties, twenties and young people who still have the chance to stumble just before hopefully that finish, because they still have to get their pricks, some of them will be left with long covid for at least months or even permanent complaints, and people with a medical risk who are once again in fear and uncertainty due to the arrival of the delta variant. Attention to these vulnerable groups was missed at that press conference last time. Can this group of 60 to 64-year-olds still get that second shot with Pfizer, as is already happening in other countries? The CDA already asked about it. We, too, hope that the opinion of the Health Council will come soon, but we are calling for it to be speeded up. We hope to see that Health Council advice soon. What about the help and support to people with long covid right now? We received the letter from them. They indicate having multiple problems and not getting the health care they need. Can the Minister indicate whether the medical risk groups should be concerned about that delta variant? Should they be eligible for a reappearance? Mr. Chairman. Several have of course already talked about this delta variant today. Three weeks ago, there didn't seem to be a cloud in the sky. The delta variant was hardly present. The Minister mentioned it as a real perspective that all the measures could be released on 1 September. So happy were the flight bans lifted, while the quarantine obligation was not yet enforced. And now we hear that this delta variant may be dominant in the Netherlands in the course of the summer and that the cabinet therefore prefers an extension of the corona law, the 1.5 meter distance, the mouth cap duty and tests for access in the autumn. We wonder whether the Minister was not well informed at the beginning of this month. Shouldn't we have done much more to stop the import of that delta variant? How worrisome is that delta variant? People are worried about that, just like about that new lockdown in the fall. Can the Minister indicate on the basis of what signal value he will decide whether new lockdown measures should be taken? For example, should the delta variant be significantly more contagious, but have less effect on hospitalisations, what risks do we accept? How proportional are those 1.5 metres away, that mouth cap duty, the testing for access, really serious restrictions on our fundamental rights? Do we not find ourselves on legal slippery ice when fundamental rights restrictions are no longer applied out of need but as a precautionary measure? Why are we still doing this fundamental rights restriction and is it not a precaution rather than an emergency? I missed in the Minister's letter. I wonder if a response can be given to this. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has already spoken about it, but the government does not want to tell universities and colleges until mid-August whether they should continue teaching at a distance of 1.5 metres or whether there are other possibilities. There are two scenarios, and as far as we are concerned, it is virtually impossible to do it that way. Students crave physical education and social contact. There's a lot of signs that their mental health isn't doing well. I have two questions on this, but I think I can also agree with the questions that the SP has already asked. Can't we just let them know what they're up to? As far as we are concerned, it cannot be passed on to them so late. Can he indicate whether the first-year students can continue their introduction weeks and, if so, in what form? We understand that the security regions still seem to be in doubt, and this simply underlines the importance of my question. Mr President, I am going to close, because I see that my time and my time is ticking. I'll save the rest for another moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u69	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u70	Mr. Chairman. Saturday morning the alarm clock goes early in many places, because a lot of children go to the sports fields very happy. We can do that again! And it's so nice to see those competitions and all that enthusiasm again. This can only be done by a lot of volunteers getting out of bed even earlier to make that possible. Mr. Chairman. That's great. At the same time, we also know that volunteering has been hit just over the past year. Vulnerable volunteers had to stop soon, but others couldn't get through. Without all these volunteers, the Netherlands would look very different. That is precisely why it is important that we work together on this deficit that has arisen in the past year. So from this place a call to anyone who thinks "maybe I can do something extra this summer": you know what, do volunteering. I would just like to ask about volunteering by employees if the cabinet can give that a push, because that is where we see the decline. Now that society is opening up again, it is good to encourage the good in this sense as well. Mr. Chairman. It's a time of breathing out and breathing out. I heard many colleagues give fine examples. For example, children and young people can go back to summer camp. I'm glad there's no restrictions on that. At the same time we are not there yet, especially with a advancing delta variant of the virus. So keeping to the basic rules is not a non-binding matter, but unfortunately still badly needed. Washing hands, keeping your distance and testing, we need to hold on to that corona-abc. I ask the cabinet to continue to be very clear about the need for that corona-abc in these times. We all feel like it's over, but it's not over yet. Unfortunately, that's true, but let's keep doing our best together. Mr. Chairman. We could do that, for example, during those well-reviewed sports competitions. We enjoy that greatly and we all hope that the Dutch will succeed. Let's show commercials just to get us to stick to that corona-abc after all. I already have a plan on how to pay for it. It won't surprise you. Let's scrap King TOTO for a while and broadcast the corona-abc commercials on that spot. Mr. Chairman. Last week I was at the Fair. There, full speed was pricked by many employees of the GGD. My appreciation for the speed with which that was set up. Compliments for all those people at the GGD who reach a lot of people in the prick locations and in the neighborhoods! I hope we're entering an endemic phase now. At the same time, we are looking carefully at the new phase in the autumn, because then we do not want a repeat. I therefore have a few questions. Is the cabinet's strategy being changed? I read a lot of good words in the letter, many words too, but I would like to have what exactly is the strategy for the coming months. So the goals and how we achieve them. Is it sent for as little contamination as possible or still at the hospital occupation? What does that look like in concrete terms? What R-value or what number of infections is involved? Isn't this the chance to knock out the fireplace a long time ago? I would like to thank the Minister for explaining his plans for the endemic phase. The Temporary Law measures covid-19 will still have to apply in the autumn, I read. However, the justification for the extension will only come at the beginning of August. That does give some concern about the involvement of this Chamber. Then how does the Minister see the planning? How are we going to debate this? How does that become a careful process? Does the Council of State also recommend before the extension how long the Temporary Law measures covid-19 can still be met? Is this a separate legislative process? How does the Minister see that? The Minister writes about various evaluations of the approach and strategy to be implemented in recent months. That's important. Could the Minister outline what evaluations are being made now, with what objectives and also when the results are expected, so that together we have an idea of how we are going to look back at this period at some point, in some time? Mr. Chairman. Due to time, I agree with Mr Westerveld's questions on housing and ventilation. I would like to make one more point about the vaccination of children. I really think that is an ethical issue, because for many children it would not be about protecting themselves, but about people around them. We therefore have the question of whether it is appropriate and sensible to first vaccinate children here, while there are so many developing countries where vulnerable people really have to deal with the corona virus. I ask the cabinet to also consider whether we should first focus on combating a buzzing virus in new variants worldwide. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u71	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A letter has recently been received from the Secretary of State of the United States of America, the Secretary of State of the Christian Union, on prevention policy. It had very nice things in it, I say immediately. Our disappointment was just that he left it to another cabinet after all. I wonder if the Christian Union agrees with us that this is not really necessary, because we simply have an adopted motion indicating that this cabinet can simply go on with prevention policy. So perhaps also through the Christian Union towards the cabinet the question: why don't we just go through with it, because the motion is there? I wonder if you agree with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u73	The Secretary of State says the name is already there on behalf of all of us. That's the first thing. It's as much Mrs. Van Esch's as it is mine. As far as prevention policy is concerned, we have often found each other in a good way, the Animal Party and I. And you too, Mr President, in a different capacity, but I will not discuss that further. What is important is that we continue to do this properly, and what has also been shown by this corona crisis is that people for whom it is very difficult to pay, for example, for a healthy lifestyle, are extra vulnerable. So I fully sympathize with this ambition with the Party for Animals and stand side by side with them. At the same time, I understand the balance. Of course, a National Prevention Agreement has been concluded by this cabinet. This has been an important step, a significant step, but new steps will have to be taken and it is also important to look at a new period of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u74	Nice words from the Christian Union, but I do like to simply decide to make a call to the Secretary of State, who apparently is also a bit of mine, by this way just to do everything possible to get on with it, because we have no idea when the new government will be there. I think it would be a shame not to pursue a prevention policy, and I think we support each other in doing so, but simply to continue to take these concrete steps. Thank you for part of the answer and I actually hope that we will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u75	I hope, of course, that the new writers of a start will listen constantly when Mrs Van Esch and I are talking about prevention agreements, but that is quite aside. As far as I'm concerned, we're shoulder to shoulder. I think it is also a call from many doctors to work on the public health of the Netherlands. You hear that in a lot of places, so I hope that becomes a Chamberwide story and not a coalition story or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u76	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u77	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. The sliding scale towards slavery. That's what this CoronaCheck app is, which has been in operation since today. I have a picture of what it looks like here. I printed this out, because of course I'm not going to install it myself. But that's what it looks like. This is the appearance of early slavery, of complete control, of the disappearance of all freedom. It is the endgame of a perfide elite who wants to copy Chinese mass surveillance under the guise of a "pandemic." Therefore, the further unnecessary 5G network had to be speeded up. That is the true meaning of the Great Reset and of Build Back Better. It is a digital infrastructure that allows remote identification of citizens' access to which social services. In China, they call that system "social credit." And the James Bond-like villains who, under the flag of the World Economic Forum and under the leadership of Klaus Schwab, who lacks only one albino cat to complete the picture, have set themselves the goal of copying the Chinese system, are now letting this go on us. The first hoop we have to go through, the first separation between the obedience and the outlaws, is now made based on your willingness to be injected with experimental gene therapy. They are shots with speculative fluid that earn big pharma billions but the risks of which are completely unclear, although the first reports about side effects, such as thrombosis, are extremely frightening. And why? To be protected from a virus with a seasonal flu mortality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u78	I do not need to comment on this, but I just want to point out that I do not believe that the comparison between the corona measures and the enslavement of people is acceptable, nor is it acceptable for what is said here. I think we need to draw a line somewhere. I don't need to comment on this, but I just want to report this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u79	Yeah, it's not surprising at all that she thinks so. She's gonna go with that hysteria. I say to Mrs Westerveld and to everyone else here that it is purely and simply about obedience training, and that it really has nothing to do with genuine public health concerns. This is clear from the simple fact that even those who can show that they already have antibodies against cojona, and are therefore better protected against the Chinese flu than any synthetic immune stimulants can achieve, must still be "sticked', as it is called in that ferocious children's language in which the power hungry speak to us. And this is all just the beginning. The next steps will be guessed. Soon, in the autumn, when the next wave or the new "variant" arrives, the app can check whether we're going to stick to the current lockdown, whether we're not violating the curfew and whether we're going to take the new vaccine update and yes, whether we're not sneaking around with the new lepers, the unvaccinated, the people who still believe in freedom. Yesterday, the renowned research firm TNO looked ahead to future applications of this devil's app. Every Dutchman, as reported the news, will soon get his own "CO-budget." Travel, meat eating and energy are subject to maximum CO emissions. Whoever goes over it has to pay extra. In TNO's proposal, each household will soon have a certain amount of CO to spend. "Who doesn't fly," it's reported, "can eat meat. Those who drive electric, and therefore refrain from driving petrol or diesel cars, will be able to shower a bit longer." End of quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u80	I find Mr Baudet's contribution incredibly costly. Mr. Baudet is making a fool of himself here forever. I've never heard so many falsehoods in a row. You must continue, Mr Baudet, all the compliments! You put yourself completely out of line to have a meaningful conversation at all. You do not have to respond to this either, especially continue with your charade!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u81	Mr Baudet continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u82	Yes. So if you drive electric, you're gonna have to take a shower a little longer. If you don't fly, you can eat meat. That's what TNO says in this post. Mr. Chairman. In George Orwells 1984 the totalitarian dictatorship consists of two principles. One principle is total control. The second principle is that citizens are constantly asked to meet absurd requirements. And that's what we're both seeing now: total control and absurd demands; ridiculous mouth caps, ridiculous vaccinations, ridiculous climate-conscious behavior. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u84	Mr. Chairman. I just lost the order of my papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u85	Please take a moment. It'll pass from your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u86	Yes. I think I just lost the first page, but I do know it by heart. It's okay to get it out of the head for once. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Lisbon currently has an entry and exit ban. England's working on that, too. 80% of them now have at least one vaccination and 60% of them already have two vaccinations. I think it is a good thing that we, the Netherlands, dare to look much more closely at how we sometimes have to intervene regionally, so that a fireplace does not take over the country permanently. There's a regional plan, I understand. Last year, we didn't apply it. Can we do that this year if necessary? Can we update that plan if necessary? And above all: under what conditions and at what times are we going to apply that, so that we know unequivocally that if there is a certain degree of contamination, we will proceed to action, so that there will not be a fourth wave? After all, we must try to avoid these mistakes last year. I think it is therefore good to vaccinate young people from 12 years of age. I have been in contact with the Minister's colleague and I understand that there is a shortage of Pfizer vaccines. Meanwhile, I get a lot of questions by email from people who really prefer not to have a second shot of AstraZeneca but Pfizer. I would like a substantive response to this, so that these people are reassured. It is very important that they get their second vaccination, because that helps greatly to be better protected against the delta variant. That's what the technical briefing this week showed. Then there's the mouth cap policy. We are, I think, one of the few countries where the use of a medical mouth cap is still not recommended. That while making it available would greatly help to act in time and quickly, so that we can hopefully avoid a fourth wave. I'd like to continue on the delta variant. The chance that the virus will mutate further and the current vaccines will unfortunately not provide protection remains. It is therefore important for the Minister to commit himself so that vaccine production capacity is scaled up, possibly at European level. Then there's the information. There are many different standards between European countries about the demands they make on tourists. Mr Van Dissel has already said a few things about this, but I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to clarify that, so that there are no Indian stories going around on Twitter that are then believed. So I think it is good to be swift and clear about that in communication. Mr President, I would like to continue. In South America, Africa and Southeast Asia, the ic's are filling up. What about the COVAX programme? Does the Minister agree with Volt that more action should be taken at European or WTO level? We should not be surprised that by vaccinating those parts of the world a country like China strengthens its own geopolitical position at the expense of the free, western world. So how's it going with the release of the patents? Finally, Mr President. It is time to show action in all areas of this crisis. We're in a pandemic. This in itself means that this crisis affects the whole world. We are not safe in the Netherlands until the rest of Europe is safe and Europe is not safe until the rest of the world is safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u87	Thank you. Before you walk away, there is an interruption by Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u88	My interruption is about vaccinating young adults between 12 and 18 years of age. Did I hear correctly that the Volt Group is in favour of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u90	Yes. Now, of course, there are quite a few ethical comments to be made about vaccinating people and children who cannot decide for themselves. There are, of course, a number of objections to this. One, they can't make the choice themselves. Two: why burden children with vaccination, while adults do not want to be vaccinated on the other side? Do you see these ethical objections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u91	I would like to respond to that as a mother of a 4.5-year-old. I think he was three days old when a helper was taken. My little boy didn't authorize that. I didn't ask him for permission for all the GGD's report with dktp and all the other vaccinations. If he's 12 years old, I'll talk about it. But then I'll keep it to myself. I think that's gonna be the case in a lot of families. As for the other side, unfortunately younger children can also get long covid, as I understand. They can carry and become ill. It may be less frequent and it happens less quickly, but I think it is right that we should inform adults. You've understood a lot since 12 years. We believe that the parents in it can be the bridge to whether or not to transfer and have that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u92	It is true that you can have a reasonable conversation about this with a 12-year-old. I'm the father of two children, 12 and 13 years old. It takes a little more effort for teenagers than it does for a 4.5-year-old child. I can imagine that, too. The point is, of course, that we also see that children are usually barely affected by the corona virus. Of course, that comparison with the helper is limp. That is why I ask the question again: does Volt's group think that you should saddle children with the problem of adults who refuse to be vaccinated for the protection of themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u93	I notice that with the word "saddling" my eyebrows and eyes go back and forth. I don't think that's a very pleasant way to look at this pandemic. The figures show that young people can also get this virus and that it can also make them sick. I still believe that most people are reasonable and can have that conversation with each other and with their children on reasonable grounds and that they will make that choice wisely. I'm still assuming that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u94	Mr President, I am standing here for a factual correction. Almost 10 million teenagers have already been vaccinated in America. That's going well, by the way. The American Federation of Paediatrics says that the benefits for these teenagers outweigh the disadvantages, because they can indeed become ill by the coronavirus and have long-term complaints. My point for a moment was that people from 12 years of age should be involved in medical procedures and medications themselves and should want them to have them completely. In other words, it's not like it's decided for 12 and 13-year-olds. They have to want it. Mr Kuzu just suggested that it be decided for them. It can't be. I just wanted to make that point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I've learned a few things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u96	Otherwise, the Minister could probably have said so. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are getting closer to the end of the corona crisis; a crisis that is not over until the old one is fully restored. That is the restoration of an open society with people who are allowed to come close to each other, without a mouth cap on and without broken hands. That is normal and remains the goal for JA21. To get closer to this goal, I have three questions about the short, medium and long term. Let's start with the short term. The oral cap obligation will be phased out from Saturday. This measure has always been firmly opposed, and that is understandable. My group is concerned about what happens to this resistance when there are all kinds of different rules about where you have to wear a mask or not, especially with rising temperatures and falling infection rates. How relevant is the proportion of infections in public transport? Is this really so great that it is only here that the duty must be maintained? Is it not better to abolish it at once, instead of stretching endlessly in order to keep up appearances of being able to steer on the square millimetre? Micromanagement has already been mentioned by my predecessors. I'd like to hear a reflection from the Minister. The second is the medium term. On the question of whether we will see an increase in the autumn, Mr Van Dissel replied during the technical briefing on corona: the seasonal effect will be at our disadvantage. Translated into understandable Dutch: summer is coming and corona goes away; autumn arrives and corona comes back. That sounds recognizable, because last year the exact same thing happened. Security questions for the coming months may be too much to ask. Nevertheless, our country needs at least a preview; a preview of the coming period when the seasonal effect may be at our disadvantage. What strategic perspective can the cabinet give us after the summer? A miserable lockdown like the one we've been through, we all don't want to go through it again. Taking into account the lessons learned, we can prevent the country from being shut down again. JA21 is in favour of an approach in which more attention is paid to differentiation by regions. This makes quick and agile action possible. Health care needs to be prepared to cope with new epidemics or disasters that require many victims. There are undoubtedly scenarios under development to contain corona in a different way than we have tried to do over the past year. When can the Minister submit these scenarios to the House of Representatives? The third point is the long term. Speaking of lessons learned, we have learned in the past year that our health care is lacking in a number of key areas. Think of public health care, where both testing and vaccination via the GGDs did not exactly go smoothly. Think also of the ic's, where existing deficits have caused acute problems for a longer time. A delta plan to raise the whole healthcare system to a higher level is something that belongs to a new cabinet, but we can't start the analysis of what can improve and how early enough. I would like to hear what steps are being taken in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u98	Thank you. Then there is the contribution of Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u99	Madam President. Next Saturday the corona rules will be further relaxed and that is good news. With the summer in front of the door there is much more possible: with many more people going to church, visiting family or friends, weddings, holidays, and so on. We are grateful for that. At the same time: not everything can this summer. Mayors and police indicate that enforcement capacity is not infinite. Some of them were a little worried when they heard what could happen again. Please note: we cannot catch up to delayed events in one summer vacation for one and a half years. I think it's good to do that expectations management too. Mr. Chairman. In summer, the number of corona infections and hospitalisations will hopefully and expected to remain low. We still need vigilance, but the acute crisis is behind us. I ask the cabinet whether it would not be wise to have a periodic communication moment during the summer months of last year, not necessarily to announce new measures, but to indicate developments and to stress the importance of the measures that are still in force. Wouldn't it be a good idea to clearly agree on periodic communication moments for that? Mr. Chairman. In autumn and winter, the number of infections is likely to rise again, we read and hear. A key question is what rules we need in and after the summer and how we decide. The main objective of government policy was to prevent overloading of care and to protect vulnerable people. To what extent is it still necessary and proportionate to continue to take action now that those vulnerable are protected and that overload is prevented? Of course, these questions are getting more urgent. Nor can it be that every local outbreak or small increase in the number of infections is actually automatically addressed with the need for action again. It must always be related to the goals that we serve with them. I ask the cabinet how that weighting is made. How does the cabinet implement the motion of myself and colleague Paternotte, who is asking for an ethical reflection, precisely in that new phase? That also has a legal component, of course, when it comes to how things go after 1 September with the Corona Act. The plan is, as we read in the documents, that the cabinet wants to extend it for a further three months. Articles in the corona law are actually dormant provisions, if you do not actually take any more measures. I understand that from an administrative point of view. At the same time, the measures should not be in force longer than necessary, given their depth. My question to the cabinet is therefore to look very critically at this autumn, also from this legal point of view. Do you also want to look at provisions that have not been or have hardly been used so far? Couldn't they be the first to die? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet now wants to delete one provision from the Corona Act, which concerns curfew. It is, of course, good news in itself that this possibility is being removed, but to my surprise I read that in future such a measure must first find its way through the provisions of the Extraordinary Powers Act. But that's what you were arguing about, isn't it? And there's another cassation appeal about that. Then it was said: let us opt for the corona law for as long as it is necessary. Why should this more controversial legal route even be applied as a matter of priority? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I agree with the questions asked about education. Could you not simply delete the 1.5 metres for education instead of using the different scenarios, with all the uncertainty that this entails for education in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u100	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u101	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'd like to start by thanking the Minister, and then I'll look at Minister De Jonge, for carrying out my motion. Two weeks ago he had dissuaded them, and actually the majority of the Chamber had voted against it. It's about abolishing the mouth cap obligation in areas where you can keep a distance of up to 1.5 meters. But luckily it's through. To speak in football terms: it's been copied. It doesn't appear on the competition form, but it doesn't matter at all. Mr. Chairman. Well, let's do the mid-term. I'm fine. Orange's through. The number of infections is gradually decreasing and the relaxations are being speeded up. But we're not there yet. Just like for the Dutch Team at the European Championships, there is a good chance that the real challenge will come in the next round. Many Dutch people go on holiday, for example to Portugal, where the delta variant is now housed. We've talked about that before today. It is a variant that is much more contagious than previous variants and in case of incomplete vaccination this variant even seems to lead to more hospitalisations. That's what we see in the United Kingdom. There, as in the Netherlands, the instructions of the pharmaceutical company were not followed properly and the period until the second prick was extended to six weeks instead of using the three weeks that the pharmaceutical company instructs. Now it turns out that there is insufficient protection. I ask the Minister whether it is true that the number of delta-variant transmissions will decrease if the instructions of the pharmaceuticals are simply followed. Here's the deal, Mr. Chairman. For a few weeks there have been sounds of a shift towards vaccination of children. This is not to protect them, but to achieve group immunity, to compensate adults who do not want to be vaccinated. As far as my group is concerned, this is ridiculous. Children do not need a vaccine because they are insufficiently at risk, and in fact they are not able to take a stand on their own. I really wonder if you should inoculate children because it's useful for adults. Those are ethical issues, which I would like to hear from the Minister. Do we have to inoculate children to protect the elderly? I would like to know what the Minister of VWS is about. Mr. Chairman. Then the rules of travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u102	Before you continue, Mrs De Vries of the VVD wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u103	If I counted correctly, it's the last one, Mr. Chairman. Does Mr Kuzu also see that it can have an advantage that young people between 12 and 18 years of age have been vaccinated, for example for schools when they open in September? Does he see that it will be easier to keep those schools open if there is a revival, which I do not hope to see?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u104	Mrs De Vries' question is justified. This discussion will also take place in September/October, because then we will, I think, be done with the adults. But the question is, of course, who is actually doing it for? When it comes to risk groups among children, I am indeed in favour of vaccination, of course on a voluntary basis. But when we look at the numbers, we see that the symptoms of the virus in the age group 0 to 18 years are really not that bad. On the basis of the ethical objections I have just raised, I wonder whether we really need to continue that children should also be vaccinated. Keeping the schools open is very important to me. We can now and perhaps also discuss ethical concerns in the near future. I think it is important to have an answer to that. I think that the opinion of the Health Council should certainly be a reason for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u105	Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Kuzu on the issue of children. Not only do children not become seriously ill and do not die, but a recent editorial from The British Medical Journal shows that they also have no significant part in their spread. So I agree with you: don't do that. Something else is - and that is what I was talking about in my speech - that once again, it must always be voluntary, for everyone, voluntary willingness to participate in vaccinations, especially in non-Western immigrants, very low. For Dutch it is 80% on average, for non-Western immigrants 43%. Does Mr Kuzu say "yes, I agree"? And again: always voluntarily, you should never be forced, directly or indirectly, to do so. But that would be a better contribution than to vaccinate the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u107	Mr Wilders and my group have fought side by side when it comes to not imposing people directly or indirectly. So: vaccinations are always voluntary. I think that instead of putting blame on groups of people, as Mr Wilders often does, we should better inform people on the basis of ethnic background. Because I also see, when I look at a number of neighborhoods and after taking the vaccination myself, that huge Indian stories went around the world. Well, I think you've been through that yourself when you've taken a vaccination yourself. Lots of misinformation, lots of miscommunications. So I think education is very important, but not based on ethnic background and so on et cetera. If we also look at a number of municipalities where, for example, Mr Van der Staaij's party is overrepresented, then we can see that the willingness is low, and I find that worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u108	Certainly, but the supporters of Mr Van der Staaij or others... When I spoke about this in October, at least those were not the people who filled the ice cream four times more; they were, whether you like it or not, non-Western immigrants. And again, I'm not interested in putting that group in a bad light. I'm talking about facts. The facts are that 43% of non-Western immigrants are willing to take part voluntarily, and I agree with you that they should continue to participate voluntarily, and 80% of indigenous people. And don't you agree with me that the affair is limp? So that you were going to bet on the kids and that was my position to the minister rather than bet on the kids... I believe that if you were to vaccinate the children between 12 and 18 years old, regardless of all ethical and other objections, which I share with you, the total vaccination will increase by 3%. Well, I don't think it's worth it for a lot of reasons. But if you were to go with all those non-Western immigrants in the Netherlands and there are a lot of them, as you know, of that 40% towards 80%, then you would hit a huge blow. Again, willingly. But do you agree with me... And again, it's not about the group. If it were people with blue skin from the planet Pluto, I would have asked you the same thing, but now they're non-Western immigrants. Don't you think that 43% is extremely low?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u109	Mr Wilders and I agree that vaccinations should not be compulsory in relation to children. Mr Wilders and I agree that you need to give more information to people to ensure that the willingness to take the vaccine is increased. We agree that you should never do so on the basis of obligation, so that should always apply on a voluntary basis. But I'm resisting the idea that it's purely about people's background. And when using the argument of "yes, but they occupy the ic's" as happened in October, also during debates in October cited here by Mr Wilders... Well, the fact is, when we look at the four major cities in our country, a significant proportion of the population has a migration background; that's right. And that means that, as far as the metropolitan problems are concerned, where there are small houses where more people live together than in Wassenaar, we must also have a solution. So that we focus it purely and sec only on those people, that's what I'm really resisting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u110	Finally, once again, you can disagree on anything, but not on facts. And what I did in October, and you and others were very angry with me at that time, is that when Mr Girbes said that I called him "Gribus" in the whole debate, but it was Girbes; a specialist from Amsterdam, I believe, who said that they had four times more, or at least a great over-representation of non-Western immigrants. That was in the four big cities, but also other, medium-sized, cities. That was a fact, whether you like it or not. It was a fact, because people didn't follow the rules. We saw weddings from Tilburg until I don't know where Turks and Moroccans didn't follow the rules. It's over. Now we are in a period when that vaccination.............................................................................................................................................................. One of these groups is the group of non-Western immigrants. They don't stay behind a little bit; they stay well behind. Finally, and then I will stop talking about it, I say: before we start this discussion on what to do with children, where you have a lot of objections that I share with you, it must be about another group. Again, not because they are non-Western immigrants, but because it is the group of non-Western immigrants who half the time choose not to take vaccination, which is their right. If you want to make a profit with that vaccination, and everyone here, I think for his reason, I agree that there's a profit there if it's voluntary, then there's a group where you can do something. You can play a part in that, just as I can. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u111	I'll fight that last one, because I will. I also took the vaccine myself, and I hope I contributed to the discussion in those communities. I also think it is a good thing that we have this discussion. That's all I'm gonna say. I'm gonna stand up to this. It is true that this willingness is low in a number of neighbourhoods. I think we need to solve that on the basis of information. I think we passed a motion two weeks ago on the use of mobile vans in those neighbourhoods. I think that's gonna get going. I would like to mention Mr Girbes' example. Was he from the Upper IJ hospital or the Our Lady Guesthouse? I think it was one of those two hospitals. I'm saying it out of my head; I could be wrong. But at the BovenIJ hospital in Amsterdam-Noord, where a significant proportion of people have a migration background, it seems to me that the patients who come on the ic also have a migration background. I think when we go to the hospital in Groningen, we see that the population on the ICUs looks very different. That is exactly the point, Mr President. I don't think you should judge people on the basis of background, but that it's about how you can get the vaccination going. And indeed, I do not think you should replace one argument with another: the children in front of the adults. No, I think you should do that hand in hand with each other, because Mr Wilders and I think there is a lot of profit to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u112	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u113	Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the color codes. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. Let me give you the example of Kos. That was orange two weeks ago, then it went to yellow and then to orange again, while the number of infections actually remained at the same level. Or take the example I used last year: Cyprus. A few weeks ago, the whole island was orange. Now Northern Cyprus is orange and southern Cyprus is yellow again. I wonder if the Minister can explain that. It is also completely unclear which rules apply in which countries when you come from the Netherlands. Take Hungary, for example. Hungary doesn't really want tourists from the Netherlands, because according to Hungary, the Netherlands colors orange. A vaccination certificate with all the imaginable stamps doesn't help with that. If you, as a Dutchman, have an entrance ticket for the eighth final in Budapest, you can go there all of a sudden. Then an exception is made. I don't get it. Does the Minister understand that? Can he explain that to me? Can we actually travel across Europe with this digital certificate from 1 July? Is there any insight into how the digital certificate will work in popular holiday destinations such as Morocco or Turkey? And finally on this subject, I come up with the three ways you can get such a QR code. One is vaccination. Two is testing. Three is the proof of recovery. I wonder why the serological examination as proof of recovery cannot be made possible in that app. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a whole passage on the large-scale buying-in of tests for access, but I would like to limit myself to the following. Two weeks ago, when we discussed the legislative proposal, we indicated that this was a waste of money. Now that is also apparent from an article by Follow the Money. Only 3% is used. I would ask the Minister to use the unnecessary or excess tests at international airports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I call Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u115	Mr. Chairman. When I drive from home to the Lower House in the morning, I am regularly stuck when I drive into The Hague. Normally that always makes me a bit cranky, but now it feels like good news, because it shows that more people are going to work again. That's possible, because the number of infections is moving in the right direction. That's nice. In the previous Corona debate, my motion was adopted asking for more attention to be paid to the importance of the second shot. I am very pleased that the Minister in his letter states that he is going to pay more attention to this. However, I do not read back what specific measures the Minister is going to take. Is he going to call parties like the GGD and GPs to work on this? Is he going to see to it that this actually happens? What specific measures will be taken in the interests of this second injection? For example, in a text message that you get as a reminder for the second appointment is explained what the importance of that second shot is, and that you also have to get it in time? We often hear now that people are going to move, with the holiday ahead, to reschedule that second shot, but also that they want to let it go all the way, because it is not convenient. We have to avoid the latter very much. That second shot is important to be really well protected from corona. Another point I raised in the previous debate is the period between the first and the second prick. The Health Council has advised to shorten that interval, but I'm getting signals that many general practitioners just leave the planning as it was. At that time, the minister said that he assumed that it would be okay, but apparently it is difficult for many general practitioners to change the planning. I understand that too, but yet I am once again asking how we can facilitate general practitioners in doing so. Especially now that the delta variant of the coronavirus is grabbing around, it is important that people get their second shot as soon as possible. Volt's colleague also said: many people who have had a first vaccine from AstraZeneca prefer the second vaccination of Pfizer. This is already happening in many other countries. The Minister would like to wait for an opinion from the Health Council, but that may take a while. Is there any way to prevent that process? I think it is important to remove all obstacles as quickly as possible for people who have doubts about getting that second shot. My next point is to vaccinate vulnerable people who live at home. Home vaccination.nl is attracted to do so, but has indicated lack of capacity which takes a long time before home-living elderly people, for example, who are not mobile, are vaccinated. The Minister has asked GPs to catch up. Why isn't community care involved in this? Like the network platform Roamler Care or home care organizations? Neighborhood nurses come home to people anyway and are also authorized to prick. It is very important that this vulnerable group be vaccinated as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. At the GGD Haaglanden last week I used puncture boxes there I am very happy to increase the vaccination rate among older people with a migration background. We were just talking about that. But instead of older people, there were mainly young people in line. It is good that this group is also vaccinated quickly, but that was not the intention of the puncture bus. Are older people with migration backgrounds sufficiently achieved? Why is there only one country day to go into the neighborhoods with needleboxes in other cities? My proposal is that poke canisters should go into the neighbourhood more often so that anyone who wants it can be vaccinated in as low a threshold as possible. Finally, we want the highest possible vaccination rate in our country. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u116	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I'd like to show you this. I ask colleagues if they know what they see here. They do not have to say that now, but I would like to come back to it very briefly at the end of my speech. They'll be able to think in advance. Dear President, best farmers and citizens of the Netherlands. The numbers of hospitalisations and infections with COVID-19 are favourable. That's good, because we were all in a bad way. But the consequences of the measures are now evident, and that is not good at all. We see a lot of people with mental problems and parents and children who are stuck. Many young people suffer from depressed feelings that have been reinforced by the lockdown. Many of them are told that they should not behave like this, but I know from my own experience that that is not a charade. I know parents who hold their hearts for the good of their child every day. They're afraid their son or daughter might hurt themselves. They lie awake when their son or daughter hasn't responded to phone calls or apps in days. Young people who see the black instead of the light. What is being done for these young people? Is there enough manpower to help these young people? Now a new wave is predicted in the fall. I don't understand it so well. If almost everyone is vaccinated, why do we have to be in fear of a new wave again? Is there something we don't know and the minister does? If there is a dangerous new wave ahead, what action will the Minister take to ensure that we are prepared for a new wave? Are there any new lockdowns being prepared? Are vaccinations being developed again? Let me get this straight. The number of Ice Beds has recently been reduced by the Minister for Medical Care. And there's still no extra I.C. staff. This seems to me to be the opposite of good preparation for a new wave. I'm worried about that. Moreover, we have now created delays in regular care. Operations have been postponed, treatments could not continue and diagnoses have been made later. Here we need a big catch-up. Is there any idea of the consequences of this on the workload in hospitals, especially in view of the new wave? Mr. Chairman. There has been a tremendous amount of work and it is right that a health bonus can be given. But this bonus must be applied for between 14 June and 27 July. I'm getting signals that this term is way too tight. Can the Minister give the applicants more time? I would also like to focus on prevention: moving and eating well. It's very important for the resistance. I find the importance of a healthy lifestyle under-exposed in the approach of COOVID-19. We need to arm ourselves against the next wave, and we cannot do that simply with vaccination. BBB advocates an information campaign to eat as many local and fresh products as possible from home soil. Products from our own food makers, which not only have a low ecological footprint, but also contain high-quality proteins and minerals. Eat locally, eat fresh! We have received two petitions on the option of the second vaccination. Some people have reacted poorly to the first vaccination and prefer the second shot from another brand. The combination of Pfizer after AstraZeneca would also be better protected. I want these people to have that choice. Can the minister make sure those people get that choice? Mr. Chairman. I also call attention to the people with long covid. People are still suffering from long-term complaints and are unable to live the life they led for COVID-19. Not much is known about this yet, but we must prevent these people from being sent from anywhere from the cabinet to the wall. What's the minister gonna do with this group of people? Is there or will there be an investigation into lung covid and its consequences? In the past we have experienced more often that it took a long time for diseases or diseases to be recognised. In the future, recognizing and recognizing time can give a lot of trouble and a lot of health care. I would like to return to this paper very briefly. If you show this to people, most people will say, "I see a black dot." But you actually see a lot of white. Actually, you see a lot more positive than negative. I should like to illustrate this in my speech on young people. Everyone says: oh yes, I do see the white, I see the positive. But the young people who are so depressed will always see this black. I really want to draw attention to these kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u118	Thank you. Very nice, Mrs. Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u119	Mr. Chairman. The corona season is coming to an end and just like last year we will have no flu wave in the warm summer months and no corona either. We need to get back to normal as soon as possible. Let's forget this nonsense with five feet, lockdowns, curfews and mouth caps as soon as possible. I look forward to the parliamentary survey, which will determine how culpable public policy has actually been. Then the vaccination of children. Mr Bikker and Mr Kuzu have already said something about this. With an IFR of 0.00003% in children aged 0 to 19 years, it is almost criminal to vaccinate healthy children. Children hardly get sick and play almost no role in the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus to adults. You also do vaccination for yourself and not for others. It is therefore completely absurd to have a grandchild vaccinated to protect Grandma. If that's what Grandma wants, let Grandma vaccinate. Problem solved. In certain very specific cases, the risk weighting may give rise to vaccination, for example if the immune system stops working after stem cell transplantation and the risk of death of corona is many times greater than the side effects. In this case, it should be possible for a patient and parents, in consultation with, for example, an oncologist, a haematologist and an immunologist, to make a risk assessment in order to opt for a completely voluntary vaccination. But we are and continue to be mordicus against the vaccination of healthy children. Does the Minister agree with me that the risk weighting in the vaccination of children almost always falls to the disadvantage of the vaccine and that you should not vaccinate children? I am also curious whether the Minister thinks that he has been entitled to the motion, which was adopted three times, in which the Chamber decided that there should be no direct or indirect vaccination obligation. Why is COVID-19 still on the A list? Finally, Mr President, I am curious to hear the Minister's views on the new investigations into antiviral medicines, which I repeat are very positive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I suggest we suspend the meeting until 6:15 p.m., including dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u121	We'll start with the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u122	Thank you, Mr President. We have a good number of questions, but I think it is fairly clear. I would like to divide my own answer into a first block that deals with the current state of affairs, the measures we are taking, the delta variant and the 1.5 meter demand that type. The second block is about how we are preparing for the autumn, so towards the whole transitional phase. The third block would then be about vaccination. Then there's a block about testing and then a block about everything related to travel. That's the last big block. Besides, I have some varia. It sounds more threatening than it is, because I think it's all clear. First of all, I say, how are we doing? That has been underlined by many groups, and it really is. That's because the virus is a little less good. All the figures that need to fall are actually falling and all the figures that need to rise are rising. For example, ECDC has just reported that the Netherlands is discoloured on the map from red to orange. That's well timed, of course, especially now. Friesland and Groningen even turn green. I have just congratulated the chairman of the Friesland Safety Region, Sybrand van Haersma Buma, on this personal success, which must have to do with his steady hand of administration. I also warmly congratulate Koen Schuiling on this result. That matters, because it matters how people look at us abroad. You could say that we do know that the infections are doing a lot better, but it is also nice to look at them internationally in that way. We shall come back to this in a moment to the national measures. Much more important than that, I think, is that we see that the number of hospital admissions has fallen very much and that the number of infections is falling very much. Our assumption is that, somewhere in the coming weeks, we as a country as a whole are actually going into greenery. I think that is also very important. The rate of vaccination is very high. We do about one church per minute, about one stadium per hour and about 1.5 million pricks per week. The vaccination rate is also rising sharply. It's all very well to follow on the coronadashboard. We have also looked at this coronadashboard with great care, but now we look at it with a lot more ease. That is no certainty for this autumn. I will come back to that in a moment, because there are still really uncertainties and risk factors that we have to take seriously into account. But for now, it certainly gives us a sense of confidence in the steps that we could take. A number of groups, including the SP and the PvdA, have said: if you look at the countries around us, are we not going too fast? That is also a sound that we hear in society. Of that, I would just like to say the following. The film is heading in the right direction anyway, but if you look at the picture next Saturday, if we take the step we intended to take together, then you can see that the numbers, the number of ic-records, the number of hospital admissions and the contagion rates are well related to the indicators we had planned for the level of risk 1. It should be added that, when we made that roadmap, there was of course no serious vaccination rate, nor was there any serious immunity from infection. That makes me think it's really a responsible step right now. Again, we need to talk about the autumn in a moment, but at the moment it is really a responsible step. Mr Wilders says: let go of the 1.5 meters immediately. That's what the OMT says this is unwise. That's the other side. That is unwise, because if you look at the vaccination rate that we have built up now, you can see that quite a few people have only received a first shot and that quite a few people have made an appointment, but have not yet received a shot. This means that we have to take it one step at a time. Do I think anyone who's gonna maintain a foot and a half is gonna be perfect? No, I don't think so. But just by keeping to the 1.5 metres, at least you give the people who are concerned about their own risk of contamination, for example when they go to the supermarket, the possibility of actually keeping that distance, and we can also appeal to the people to stick to it. So I think this is a nice middle. It is a big step, but I think it is a nice middle, given the risks that there are and given the improvements that have indeed taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u123	The middle isn't pretty at all. I don't know why you think it's beautiful in the middle. This is true of your party, but in broad terms it is true in politics that the middle is not beautiful at all if it is not necessary. And there's no need. So don't listen to all those parties here saying we need an extra bus for testing, we need to test people from yellow areas and we need to have children tested. We shouldn't do any of that. It's going in the right direction. The Minister is right and he is also relaxing a number of measures, for which he pays tribute. But he also insists on a number of measures: masks in secondary education, children whom he wants to have vaccinated after the advice of the Health Council and, most importantly, the one-and-a-half meter rule that continues to exist. That won't be necessary. We have just seen the figures of the number of antibodies in humans: 70% of all Dutch people, according to data from the Blood Bank, have antibodies. Over 70 years, that's even 98%. Everyone has antibodies. You said it yourself: the ICUs, the hospitals, are at zero in no time. According to Mr Van Dissel too, it will soon go to zero. We're running out of infectious people: 25,000 out of 17.5 million. There have been 14 million shots and the expectation is that there is no more spread of the people who have been pricked. And I can go on like this for another hour. The power of someone who has power is a powerful man, whether we have agreed with you or not, is that, if that power is no longer needed, you should be able to abandon it and not hold on to the idea that you still have some power. You don't have to have that power anymore. If you need it again, you may be able to pick it up again in the House of Representatives, but now you must let go of your power. There is no variable that says that we should wear mouth caps, that we should have children tested and that we should stick to those 1.5 meters. All signals are green. Let go of that power! Please give the Netherlands back that 1.5 meters! Oh, my God, I've said that so beautifully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u124	You said it very nicely. In fact, I do not agree with your whole argument. That's a beautiful thing too, so on the edge of the summer. What I very much agree with is that you need to take measures that are proportionate. I wouldn't want to see that as power. But we have to face up to the fact that the measures we have taken have been extremely restrictive for people. You can't handle that lightly. You have always pointed this out, as has Mr van der Staaij: you must always ensure that you are proportionate in the measures you take. That is also why we are taking a very significant step at the moment, also internationally. We see that the countries around us are a little more reluctant, but we are taking a big step. And we're doing it on purpose. Because would it be wise to ask for a good example of mouth caps everywhere in indoor spaces if we knew that the number of infectious agents has fallen seriously by now, if we could keep the 1.5 meters everywhere and we could also see that as a protective wall? We told you not to hold on to that masking duty. I have also said this in the Chamber when dealing with the oral cap: once we can get rid of it, we must also get rid of it. All the restrictive measures you could get rid of, you need to get rid of them. That is without prejudice to the fact that I really want to stick to those 1.5 metres for a few reasons. One. A lot of people have already been vaccinated: 5 million people have already been fully vaccinated and some of the people have had one shot. But some still need to get their full vaccination. If you were to release the 1.5 meters already, you would certainly get a serious number of infections with the delta variant on Dutch soil. Mr Wilders then says: yes, but then the hospitals are not full of that. No, I do not think so, at least not at the moment. But the part of society that has not yet been vaccinated is also entitled to prevent them from getting infected when they go to the supermarket? That's enough reason for me not to be too cocky with those five feet. If you look at that from an international perspective, you can see that in the countries around us that 1.5 meters are not released at all. At least what I've wanted to do is sketch perspective. I would like to see, see and weigh by mid-August whether it is possible to let go of that 1.5 meter. We will then look at the epidemiological situation at that time and, of course, we will also make the international weighting. I shall come back to that in a moment in relation to education. I would find the moment there in mid-August, because by then anyone who wants it could be fully vaccinated. I don't think it's wise to let go of the five feet now. I do not think this is in line with the OMT recommendation either. Nor is it in line with the international situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u125	I just don't agree with the Minister. Everyone, including the Minister, is talking about this so-called delta variant and people who have not been vaccinated. The figures we received from the Minister and the RIVM show that people who have been vaccinated once with Pfizer before, I believe, 92% are protected from hospitalization caused by the delta variant. People who have been vaccinated twice with Pfizer are 94% protected. At Astra, that percentage is slightly lower, but also in the case of two shots with Astra, the protection is well above 90%. I'd say, Minister, get on with giving the second Astra to people. I think you're doing some of that, too, but do it even faster. In the Netherlands we have mostly pricked people with Pfizer. The vast majority is not pricked with Astra, but with Pfizer. You call the numbers yourself. It's not everyone, but it's a lot of people. After one shot of Pfizer, you won't be able to get into the hospital. So I'm sticking with it: please go... We've seen that before with that curfew. Eventually it also left and disappeared, but we have maintained the curfew longer than needed. It's a basic attitude of people that you get a little closer to each other than a foot and a half. This rule has been in force for a very long time. I'm telling you, I don't think it's necessary. This is still separate from the fact that I think a lot of people will not stick to it anymore, certainly not outside. The Minister says so himself. It's crazy that under these circumstances you have to keep a distance of five feet outside, but it's all crazy now. It's crazy! You yourself are suggesting that you do not assume that people will do this. I heard someone from the police union on television or in the newspaper said, "We're not going to maintain that anymore. We give a warning if things get very out of hand, but that's it too." Then what are we doing? You yourself say: the people do not do it; it is not necessary. At best, the police are gonna issue another warning. Then why would we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u126	I do think people are trying to stick to it. From all behavioral studies we also notice that people are trying to keep to it. We can only see that it is increasingly difficult. That makes sense, too, but that doesn't mean you can just get rid of it. I think it's clear that the OMT doesn't recommend that either. The OMT wouldn't think it wise if we did it already. That is mainly because we have not yet been fully vaccinated and not everyone has had the chance to be vaccinated. Then you're indeed looking at that delta variant with an oblique eye. What do you see and learn? Of course, one shot protects pretty well from hospitalizations. Yes, it is. Only, who do you run into in the hospitals in London? Those are indeed the people who have had one shot and the people who haven't had a shot. We have quite a lot of people who have had one shot and we have quite a lot of people who have had two shots. That goes for hospitalizations. In addition, of course, you also have just health damage that can occur due to an infection. If you can prevent that by maintaining that 1.5 meters... I share with you that you must always take proportionate measures. We're pretty much letting go of everything, but I'm really convinced that it's wise to hold on to this measure now. In mid-August we'll make a new weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u127	If you look at such a table about the United Kingdom, you will indeed see the number of delta contaminations rising massively towards a peak. But the line of hospitalizations hardly rises to nothing. I don't want to say that the line is zero, but the line is a very small piece above zero. If you put that into perspective with the number of inhabitants of the Netherlands, it is relatively less than we have in the Netherlands now, while the delta goes through the roof. So it's not like this is gonna lead to big excesses. Let me just say my last point about the 1.5 metres. During the technical briefing, Mr Van Dissel said that an important argument "it was not the only argument "to maintain the 1.5 metres" is that it would be very annoying if the measure had to be abolished and re-implemented immediately. Those were literally Mr Van Dissel's words. Well, not literally. The words are paraphrased by me. That can never be the reason to impose such a restriction, if you hear RIVM's head infectious diseases say: "Yes, if we abolish it now, people are not used to it anymore. If we have to re-introduce it immediately, it's only tricky." That can't be a reason, can it? You have to distance yourself from that, don't you? Then you shouldn't say we're going to do that in August, because why don't we do it now? Why are we even doing it in mid-August? Why don't we do it before, mid-July? What's the idea behind mid-August and not before? I want it now and you say "mid-August" and why don't we do it in mid-July?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u128	First of all, why mid-August? We formulated that moment ourselves, because we hope to have a very high vaccination rate at that time. We hope to be above 85% with the first prick and above 80% with the second prick. That's high, higher than many countries can come. We still have to see it, but we're hoping to get there. We also have confidence in this in view of all the studies on vaccination readiness. That's the argument for me. Another argument for me is, in particular, the health argument. Yes, we do not expect that there will be a lot of hospitalizations in the coming period, even if the rate of infection is falling just a little bit less and even if the delta variant gets the upper hand in the new infections. Nevertheless, I believe that the people who have not yet had the opportunity to be vaccinated have the right to be protected when they enter the public domain. That means that for those people we can now demand that solidarity from each other by simply keeping a distance of 1.5 metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u129	The Minister has been the bearer of a happy message in recent weeks. I think that these relaxations mean a lot to a lot of people, for example those who will be able to be back at sports competitions next Saturday. At the same time, I still have a question. In England there were 16,500 infections yesterday and that is because of the difference in scale comparable to 4,500 infections in the Netherlands. Because of that Indian variant, they have an increase, even though they have vaccinated more than we have. I would therefore like an answer to the question whether... When the minister's done with his phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u130	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u131	I'd like to be able to ask my question. I just wanted the Minister to hear the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u132	I can do multiple things at once. I have my feminine side too, so I can do that. But in the meantime, I had to turn off a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u133	Aha. Okay. The next question is, Mr President. In England they have vaccinated more than we have and yet they see a hugely rapid rise there. What makes us different from England, so we won't see it this summer? What makes you think we're not gonna take that chance? I think we all need an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u134	That's a good point. First of all, I think there's a difference in vaccination strategy. You know that we have debated here several times whether you should opt for the one-prick strategy: give everyone the first shot and the rest will come later. The UK has done so. All the intervals are actually there at about 12 weeks. The Netherlands did not do that. The Netherlands has always pricked within the package leaflet. We did that at AstraZeneca, but not at the other vaccines. We have extended the interval, but just within the package leaflet. This means that we have indeed vaccinated in a different way from the UK. The UK is a little bit further than the Netherlands, and you should not therefore take the automatic reassurance that it would not apply to us. Furthermore, there is a difference in protection after the first shot between Pfizer and Astra. The majority of us are Pfizer and I think that's also a difference to notice. I think a whole other important difference is the influx. The Indian community is much larger in the UK. But apart from the differences, the match is the lesson. The lesson is that two shots are important. That is the first lesson and we have always used that lesson. We have never entirely moved on to the one-prick strategy, even though a number of people have strongly argued in favour of it. The second lesson is as high as possible and as homogeneous a vaccination rate as possible. Maybe that's the most important lesson. I will come back to that later in the second block. Why do I say "as homogeneous as possible"? Where do you see the contagions coming from and so do the hospital admissions? This is particularly true in large migrant communities in large cities, i.e. among non-vaccines. We were already very convinced of that, but this only underlines the importance of really going into every corner and hole of every big city in the coming time with a spray can. In every corner of the Netherlands where the vaccination rate is below the average, we will have to ensure that we land not only on average at that 85%, but also in every subgroup. Every neighborhood, every group will have to be vaccinated. I'm going to go into that in a moment under the heading of what we're all doing to prevent that second wave. So I have also had the questions about the delta variant. Then who's keeping an eye on them? Yes. You have to see it so that at the moment we see the number of infections falling, very sharply, but that the proportion within those infections caused by the delta variant is just increasing rapidly. Mrs Kuik rightly said: we can see that there are very large differences in the Netherlands. In a number of major cities, including Amsterdam, the GGD brought that message out yesterday, we can see that it is really growing considerably. Fortunately, it is a percentage increase within a decreasing number of infections. Fortunately, we can still see it that way, and I hope that will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u135	First of all... I understand the scale when it comes to the number of infections. My main concern is that the delta variant simply creates uncertainties. What I don't understand at the same time is that the source and contact research is already being scaled down. 'Cause it will. That's what we hear from people themselves. I don't understand. If you want to continue to closely monitor exactly what is happening with the virus and where it is going to develop, that's especially in urban areas, but there are also vulnerabilities locally - why do you already choose and why don't you maintain that strictly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u136	We had to run 10,000, 11,000, 12,000, 13,000 BCOs one day, just because of the huge number of positive test results. Right now, we don't, so in that sense, you don't need the whole army you had back then. But of course we know that you can use tests and BCO to cut off a very important percentage of the R. This is estimated at 14% to 15%, if you perform the CoronaMelder tightly and the source and contact investigations and testing for complaints. Of course, we want to keep doing that, as complete as possible. The people who are ready for the BCO are more than enough to be able to do the source and contact research, to be able to do it fully and to do it intensively. Also for after the summer I will come back to that in a moment. Of course, that capacity must be kept in order. It's always good to see how many people you can prepare for the number of infections we have now, but last year's situation at that time there was a situation in which an increasing number of infections could hardly be reduced by the capacity for the BCO. We really shouldn't have and we're not going to get any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u137	At the same time, we see that part of the source and contact research is laid down again by people themselves, while I think that right now is the chance to really go for an indentation strategy. But that's not what they're gonna choose. I honestly don't understand that. Of some relaxations I might have said "joy, wait another week or two," but that was not chosen. I'm not going to table a motion on that. But what I really don't get is that if the number of infections is so low now and the delta variant is a risk, perhaps especially locally, we're not putting the maximum extra effort on source and contact research. 'Cause now you have another chance to check it out. It doesn't rhyme with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u138	Apart from all that discussion about containment, then we come back to that semantics and I honestly don't believe in an open country like the Netherlands as much as you have to do everything you can to reduce the level of infection. Tests and source and contact research, a well-closed chain of them, is a great help, so the source and contact research that is being done is very intensive right now. It can also be intensive and complete compared to the days we went through the roof in terms of number of positive test results: 12,000, 13.000. That's hard to keep up with, so that was, let's say, a little leaner and meaner designed source and contact research. With the people we have now, with the source and contact research that is to take place now and that should also take place in a scaled-up situation in the autumn, we are asked to give this intensive form, because I share that view of Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u139	Still. The OMT now says that we can leave the source and contact research to the people, that they themselves must inform their roommates and relatives. That's not the intensive source and contact research I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u140	That is not the line of the OMT, not the line chosen by the cabinet and not the line of the GGD. However, in a situation where a large proportion of the members of the family have been vaccinated, for example, different rules must apply. Of course it is. But that's actually another instruction given by the GDD. However, it is not a scaled-down source and contact investigation. It's not that. It's just an intensive source and contact research, a full source and contact research. That is also important this autumn. It will certainly be important when we get an influx of virus variants from abroad after the holiday, as we saw last year. Then you have to be ready and be able to handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u141	The question then is based on what values you ultimately decide to scale up again. I'm assuming we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u142	Yeah, sure. Mr Paternotte and also Mr Van der Staaij asked how Dutch people are kept informed as we go on the watchflame. I think the good news is that we're not going to, because we can't afford that at all. The core team will continue to meet, even during the summer, although there will be a few people abroad occasionally. But that doesn't mean that it's impossible to just hold a meeting. That's what I learned from last year. You can actually just keep meeting, and we're gonna do that. We have also been asked: do we continue to turn to the people from time to time? Are we gonna keep communicating? How's it going? Where are we? What measures do we take, also in relation to the fourth wave, which I think we want to avoid with each other? For that, too, someone will be ready every time. This update will be given every week. So our core team just keeps getting together and we just keep communicating, even over the summer. The same goes for the OMT, by the way. Of course, that also remains available to advise us. And also the RIVM, the Centre Infectious Disease Control is just available. Mrs Bikker is asking for the communication to continue. Mrs van den Berg also calls for further communication, particularly on the code of conduct. I think that is very important, because if a lot of rules are no longer in force, then the rules we do have must also be properly respected. So that's what we're gonna be communicating about, all summer long. I don't know if that can be done instead of the Wesley Sneijder commercial, because I wouldn't like that for Wesley Sneijder. So I'm afraid to admit it, but we're gonna keep coming up with these ads. We certainly do, and more than that, by the way. We'll just intensify communication. Where does the advice come from that we can get back to work? That's not the advice. Because I don't think I could. Also this is related to those 1.5 meters. I think it just doesn't fit a lot of offices to go back to work at 1.5 meters. That's not the advice either. For offices: you can have people come back to your office, but you always have to keep the 1.5 meters. So if it doesn't fit, because of the elevator or because of the number of square meters of floor space you have, then it can't. So it can only be as far as the circumstances allow to keep that 1.5 distance. And we say to the people themselves: you can go back to the office, but don't go more than half your working time. That is a bit of an in-between advice; I understand that. However, this also applies to proportionality. It's hard to expect people to stay at home working when there are all kinds of relaxations. So we said, we're taking a step. But we don't say, "Just come back to work." We are certainly not taking that step, and that is actually only possible if you could actually lift the one-and-a-half-meter measure. Why is the 1.5 meter still standard at home or in visitor situations? That's a bit because otherwise it's very hard to remember. We just have a very simple rule, namely: 1.5 meters, always, everywhere. If you are going to diversify very much into that, it is difficult to bring that forward in a good way in communication and to live up to it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u143	However, in Denmark, for example, this is done, but also in Germany. There they just said: vaccinees don't have to keep the 1.5 meters when they visit each other. This is also quite important for people who are just looking for that hug again, but who also adhere very strictly to the measures. I mean, not everyone will, but quite a lot of people really see this as the guideline for how they behave with each other. I see now that the OMT says that vaccinees do not have to hold on to those 1.5 meters. Isn't it the best thing to write about this in those guidelines on the government website? Because that does give people a direction. Could the Minister at least understand himself with his European colleagues who do, to see what their experiences are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u144	I looked at that, but frankly I didn't think that was such a strong song from Germany, among other things. I found it rather difficult to explain. They even did it there in the public domain. Other measures were taken in the public domain for vaccinees. If you do that, you de facto lift the 1.5 meters, because it just won't be maintained anymore. What if you were to say, yes, in the home situation? What about when a neighborhood barbecue is being held? Is that a home situation? Or if there's a party at home. Is that a home situation? When you say "the vaccinees don't have to keep a distance of 1.5 meters, but the non-vaccines do" it looks pretty crazy at a party with varying ages. And how is the 1.5 meter maintained at that time? In short, if you want it crumbled, I think you should do it that way. Then the 1.5 meters is just gone. We're just saying, uh, five feet; it's... We have very few measures. Actually, we have one left and that is super important, namely the 1.5 meters. Just stick to that. That's the best we can do. Mrs De Vries asked about the catering industry. A daily choice must be made between a regime with or without test certificates. That has everything to do with enforcement. By the way, it says here that it was your question, but I think it was Mr Paternotte's question to you, which you gracefully passed to the cabinet. Well, here's your answer and that was actually in the corner where you were looking for it: it's just about enforcement. If restaurants can switch, it will be very difficult to maintain them. I think it's important to maintain. We have said that after the gate of the tickets, the 1.5 metres may be released. By the way, that will feel like a huge liberation next Saturday at all those sporting events, in all those restaurants where that is possible, in the theatres or in the cinemas. That's gonna be something really special, I think. It's been, like, 16 or 17 months since we could do that. So it's really very special if we can do that again, that let go 1.5 meters. But then we have to be very strict. So really work with tickets and it needs to be checked very closely. Mrs Pouw-Verweij asks about the duty of mouth cover: can't you do that for a while? There again is a little bit that we want to think along with those people who have not yet been able to be vaccinated. They come in the situation that it will be difficult to maintain that 1.5 metres in a number of subways at least. I think they like it when they see that not only themselves but others wear a mouth cap. Well, then you'll feel better protected, and frankly, I understand. So, in fact, that 1.5 meters applies everywhere and where it doesn't apply, it's just a mouth cap, because that's the best protection you can offer at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u145	I really appreciate the Minister's waiting so I can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u146	I saw you come running so gracefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u147	Thank you. To make it clear to me: so is it really a matter of making people who are not yet protected feel better? I actually asked for a factual basis. If it is not there and you say that it is mainly about a sense of protection for the most vulnerable, then that is also an explanation, but I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u148	I need to get a better expression. The number of infectiouss has fallen very much. What was the ratio of introducing that oral cap? That was, also to settle the discussion then... It was a discussion that lived tremendously. In the Chamber it was said: "Let's just do it. Internationally it happens and every bit helps. If you'd like to add all those little bits together, let's just do that mask duty." That was given the number of infectiouss at that time. The treatment of the oral cap was, of course, about the justification, about its ratio. It was also about the possible situation in which the number of infectious diseases has fallen very much. It's standing at just over 25,000 right now. That's really different from the 150,000 to 170,000 we've had. In short, the risk of contamination has actually decreased. That means you can actually do gross modo with that five feet, we think. But there are situations where you can't maintain that 1.5 meter. And yes, it will certainly care for the sense of security, but also in fact for the risk of infection. If you're sitting in the subway like herrings in a barrel, it's nice that you're wearing a mouth cap. And I kind of like it when the guy who's on your neck is just wearing a mouth cap. That gives me a more protective feeling, but I am actually better protected at the time. So do in public transport and in all those places where you might not be able to fully observe 1.5 meters, in line at Schiphol, for example, but just put on that mouth cap. That's just where it's wise to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u149	Thanks for the response. But is this also quantified? Do we have any of the numbers on which we base this, or is it more of a gut feeling? That may sound unkind, but is it an assessment on which we base it or do we have any figures of the number of infections we expect, a percentage that we can prevent and so on? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u150	You have a lot of international investigations into the number needed to mask, and that depends on the level of infection at the time and the situation you're in. We say that, given the level of infection, that 1.5 meters should be sufficient to be protected. At the same time we say that there are situations where that 1.5 meter may not always be maintained; that full metro, that full train. Well, then it's just wise. There are still about 25,000 infectiouss. They won't all stay home because they have complaints. Well, then it's wise to put on that mouth cap. On education, there was a question from Mr Kwint. I know that Mr Kwint looks back at the debate in the evening just before bedtime, so I think he will be fine. We can't promise right now that we can lift that five feet before the new academic year. It's just too soon for that. We are also not quite sure how this delta variant is going to continue. We are not entirely sure whether there could be new influx of new variants, just after the summer, such as the epsilon variant or any other. It's all possible. We can still finish the entire Greek alphabet. We just don't know for sure. In recent times we have learned that if you try to lock something up for about six or eight weeks from now, you are very often a bit different from what you thought, because the virus has surprised us more often. We think it might be a real scenario that by then you could get rid of that 1.5 meter, because of the increased vaccination rate, 85% on that first shot and over 80% on that second shot, and because of the increased immunisation, also because people have experienced their infection. At the same time, some of the people have not yet been vaccinated. I'm about to deal with all those risks before the fall. So we do not have the courage to say it with certainty either. We do the best we can to say to the schools: please prepare for both scenarios. I understand very well that it is incriminating, because that is what it is. You need to prepare for two different schedules and multiple situations. But I think it is a shame to say so again, because that is annoying: do the education at 1.5 meters. Suppose that is possible, then you would actually want to start a normal school year in the new academic year. I think the good news is that it is a real perspective that we can start the new school year without that 1.5 meters, and I believe that Fathernotte is approaching it in that way too. And yes, you should also be prepared for that B scenario, because that is also a real scenario, namely that you still need that 1.5 meter. That is why we ask that question about education, although we also see that it is not ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u151	I saw Mr Van der Staaij for an interruption. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u152	I saw that too, but then he sat rested again, I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u153	Yeah, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u154	Still, though, huh? Now you've encouraged him again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u155	I understand that I am being given the opportunity to make a bonus interruption. I wasn't sure, because you always have to look at the issues that are still going to come up and put those interruptions in the right place. This was a point that we noticed was not very pleasant in the field of education in many people; hence it was also raised. It seems that in many sectors it is said again: okay, we can alleviate all kinds of measures, but here a measure remains. My specific question is how the Minister points out the OMT opinion on this point. To be honest, I thought that was a little complicated and a little double. He said on the one hand that it can be done at first, but that it can be difficult later. I thought that was a bit of an ambivalent message, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u156	I can understand why you say that that way. Actually, I'm starting my next block right now. The OMT just wants to be honest about the uncertainties about the fall. They're heavy. What the education, I think, might have put in a little bit is that it seems in that letter that this only applies to education. But we have to prepare ourselves at all for the situation where all these uncertainties could fall in the right direction and you can really get rid of that 1.5 metres, and that other situation, where that is not the case and you will have to maintain the 1.5 metres even longer, and not just in education, but at all. In this respect, education is not really a different situation from that of the rest of society. There has been talk of, or rather hinted at, the possibility of using tickets in education as well. But in the law of admissions we said ourselves: before we start, we really have to cross a new hill. We want to arrange that at the level of an AMvB and not just through an arrangement or just through a KB or something. We really want to do that through an AMvB. Imagine if you were just trying to imagine that situation for a moment.It's actually not justified to let go of that 1.5 meters, but that you do want those 1.5 meters to be released in educational situations and that you would like to work with tickets for those who have been vaccinated. I think that we should be very clear about this and make a very good argument about it, and that we should first have the debate with the Chamber: do we really want to cross that bridge? Because asking for a ticket to higher education is a very different story than asking for a ticket to the cinema. There really is a big difference. In short, I wouldn't want to cross that bridge myself. For now, the safest option is: let education prepare itself for both scenarios. That's really the safest option. We hope very much, of course, that this 1.5 meter can be released, and not only in schools, but at all in society. For this also applies: proportionality must weigh very heavily. With an increased vaccination rate, with increased protection, proportionality should weigh very heavily towards autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u158	I believe that we were asking the same questions on this subject as Mr Kwint. We specifically asked if we could at least do it a little sooner. I think we all want the scenario where you don't have to keep a foot and a half away. But most of all we hear from the world of education: if it takes so long to know what scenario it is going to be, then that is actually an unworkable situation for education. So the urgent call is: can we at least try to do this weeks earlier than we have imagined?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u159	The hard thing about that is: the sooner that is, the less you know. That is why we chose the date of mid-August. Otherwise, you don't know enough about the influx. Then you still don't know enough about the variants that have been taken from all kinds of exotic holiday countries. Mid-August, you know what you're up to. In this way, I will deal with the uncertainties that play a role and the considerations that we want to make in this regard. I think it's really wise to weigh that in mid-August. You asked yourself about the introduction weeks. That's actually the same thing. So we ask them to just prepare for two scenarios, but we hope that the scenario will become the truth without the 1.5 meters. But we just don't know for sure right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u160	Thank you. I think you're going to block two, aren't you? Just for my paperwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u161	Sure. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u162	But first of all, Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u163	I read today that the University of Groningen says to its employees: yes, boys, just prepare one scenario; we open and if not, we actually do what we have already done. That's what she says because logistics just doesn't work. Because if you ask the employees to really work out two scenarios completely, including the room reservation, then you ask so much of them again. I understand exactly what the Minister says: the later you decide, the more you know. However, I wonder to what extent such a communication, in view of the virology which is very logical, has taken into account what that means for the educational institutions and what that means for the people who have already had a very complicated year anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u164	Yeah, sure. Look, I would have liked to have just said: prepare for a school year or college year without those 1.5 meters, because we are sufficiently vaccinated. But we all know that there are still too many uncertainties to say that. And as much as we know that it is difficult for teachers to prepare for two scenarios, I really think it is wise. Because imagine that we would say "well, just choose," so: prepare yourself for the scenario without the 1.5 meters, but it may also be disappointing, you will hear from us. And then it falls apart, and then they have to think of something else. This probably does not lead to more, but rather less education for pupils and students. The other side is that you say: yes, just make sure for the uncertain and prepare yourself for education at 1.5 meters. But let's say that doesn't have to; even then, it leads to less education. And I think everyone in education does feel that you should try to take advantage of the opportunities that exist. You have restrictive measures, and if they make sense, you have to stick to them. If they're not needed anymore, you need to get rid of them. And that certainly applies to education, I think, where the limitations have, of course, already been quite considerable. So however incriminating it is, I really think it would be wise to prepare two scenarios, both of which are real, and to clarify by mid-August what it is going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u165	Then let me ask you a different question. Suppose educational institutions choose to do so because higher education institutions are relatively autonomous in the Netherlands to develop, for example, only the distance scenario because they say: we can't do it this summer. Can we at least agree that at the beginning of September there will not be an education inspection or a sanction or something if they simply do not come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u166	I do not know how the education inspector intends to deal with this, but it seems reasonable to me. P. o. and vo are no problem at all; there is already no 1.5 meters. Mbo and ho, that's what this is about. I think that a lot of colleges, a lot of universities, a lot of MBO institutions will simply prepare both scenarios. A college that says "I'm only preparing for one scenario, because I think it's gonna be," well, that could be cheating, of course, because that means you have to go head-on in the other direction by mid-August. I think it would be a shame if, as a precautionary measure, the 1.5 metres were chosen, because that ultimately leads to less education, which might not be necessary. That transitional phase, I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u167	Yes. One more question from Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u168	Mr. Chairman. I think it is important, and the Minister knows that everyone realizes that, of course, except for vaccinations, it is about the number of infectious diseases. And that's now out of my head, 25,000 or 26,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u170	But that number is ten, eleven days ago. So if you're doing that number times the R of 0.75 in the cube, what is it? Four or five days would be considerably lower than the 25,000. It could just... And then I'm going to assume that the R has stayed 0.75, because if it drops, it's gonna go down even more, and if you vaccinate any more, it's gonna be another number. But let's assume it's 15,000 or 20,000 now, we don't know either of them, and if it's okay, the number of infectiouss will fall even more in the next few weeks. So whether it's about the colleagues talking about the distance of 1.5 meters in schools, or about a mouth cap in secondary education, or even my story of that 1.5 meters in general, the chance that you encounter someone who can infect you is hugely small in 17,5 million inhabitants. Giant little! And that's the perspective I'm talking about. If you take that into account, that 26,000 out of ten, 11 days ago, the number is probably now much lower, the R is probably lower, the number of vaccinees is rising, then the chances are you're gonna meet someone who can infect you, out of 17,5 million inhabitants one in a thousand. So, yeah, it's all proportional, you know? The chances of it happening are much smaller than people now think it's happening. And that delta variant... If I may, Madam President, the Minister himself says: yes, that is all true, that delta variant. But in the meantime, it's all falling down. But we think now, because we read in all the newspapers of the delta variant and the colleagues here say "yes, that delta variant"... Of course, I don't want to trivialize it, but the figures go down. The number of infectious agents is falling and the number of vaccinees is increasing. And the R drops, and the chances of you running into someone who can infect you are at 17,5 million inhabitants... Well, I don't mean negligible, but very small. Do we still have to do what we're all gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u171	I can fully follow Mr Wilders. And by the way, let's just say that all of Jaap van Dissel's lectures are in such a way that you could follow him when I hear it like that. For you are right: the number of infectious people is falling, and the number of infectious people that is now being published or diagnosed is indeed the number of a little over two weeks ago; that is right. And indeed, the number of infectiouss is still decreasing. I'm going back to last summer. At that time we had a very similar debate, so I remember. After all, I've been making the sum of the odds that you're gonna run into someone who's contagious. We had an estimate of about 3,000 infectiouss back then. The odds are about 1 in 10,000 you're gonna run into someone. That's pretty small. That's a full Ahoy where one person can cough on your neck. Then you'd better be in the wrong place. So that's very low. Now, of course, we are all increasingly vaccinated. We've been building up antibodies more and more because we've been through that infection. That's all true. But at the same time, at the same time, some of the people have not yet had the chance to protect themselves: they need to be vaccinated once more, sometimes twice, when they are very young. Then you can say: yes, but they don't run the risk of getting into the hospital, do they? But they don't want to get sick either. I think they have the right not to want to get sick and yet, like the rest, to participate in society. That's one thing. Two is that the number of infections is much lower than the suit bit him three months ago. It is; it is much lower. Let's count our blessings. However, it is still much higher than in the summer of last year. We then saw how after the summer that level of contamination began to rise again. So apparently from the situation that the number of infections is very low, you can also enter the air in treacherously fast. I think I'm gonna have to make the switch to that second block right now. In that I come back to the risks that await us. You could say that now that we are so increasingly vaccinated, we are going through some sort of transitional phase. From the real epidemic phase with large outbreaks we go to the endemic phase. It is sometimes discussed too quickly, as if we were almost there already. Of course, we are far from there, because revivals can still play a role in that autumn. The OMT has identified a number of risk factors for that autumn. I'll summarize them. The first risk determining factor is the degree of transmission inhibition. We still do not know enough about the degree of transmission inhibition after vaccination. We have the assumption that it will be decent, but how high it is exactly, we're going to learn in the fall. If ever the moment comes when we let go of that 1.5 meters, you'll see what that does with the increase in the number of infectiouss, given that people themselves might not be so sick anymore, but they might still be able to pass on that virus. So much for transmission inhibition. Two: the extent to which mutations escape the vaccines. At the moment, we have the assumption that against new mutations that still protect vaccines. Three is the reduction of immunity. Of course, we don't know exactly what that is. That's what we need to learn. But our assumption is, on the basis of some virologists and immunologists now know and estimate that immunity is still quite stable, although it may be a bit faster for really older people with a weaker immune system. But the assumption is that that immunity lasts for quite a long time. The fourth is the height and homogeneity of the vaccination rate. I just named it. The height is very important, but homogeneity is increasingly important. The fifth is the introduction, the introduction from abroad after vacation, by returning travellers. Those are the five determining risk factors. If you mix them together, add them together, if all those risk factors occur to some extent, what could be the situation? In a real scenario there is definitely going to be something of a revival of the number of infections towards autumn. I think that is the most real scenario, not on my own authority, but listening to what our advisers are saying. At least that's what you should expect. Whether that's going to be a very high peak, we don't really know yet. This is very closely linked to the degree of transmission inhibition by vaccination. If it's going to be very high, it won't be that bad. If it's a little lower, then vaccinees will start, especially once they release those 1.5 meters, that virus will spread quite further among themselves. So the degree of transmission inhibition will determine the extent to which those infections are re-emerging. Or from those infections, from that revival also hospitalizations, again has to do with the extent to which we have been vaccinated with each other. Then there's the vaccination rate, because there's been a lot of talk about that. Look, I think the Netherlands is gonna come out pretty good. I think that we really will be at the forefront of Europe if you look at the studies on vaccination readiness. About 87% of the 18-plussers now say they're going to be vaccinated. That's very high. But let's assume 85%, then you always have about 15% that haven't been vaccinated. You have to assume that the majority of those 15% of the 18-plussers belong to the younger half of the 18-plussers. You must also assume that this 15% is divided between all age groups and that this can lead to hospitalisations. That's one. Two. Also in people who have been vaccinated, we always have an x percentage in which we do not see at all that immunity is actually being built up or held. So you have to assume that, despite vaccination, about 5% is not really protected from hospitalization. If we add 15% to 5%, we have 20% of adults who could be at risk for hospitalization. That's a lot. If the transmission inhibition is disappointing and we are therefore going to see a revival of the infections, there will still be a considerable number of people at risk of ending up in hospital, especially those who are at risk of that virus at all. Then you can say: then you should have been vaccinated; your own fault. But of course it doesn't work that way, certainly not because, at the moment when people need hospitalization, we will really let that hospitalization happen. The moment those hospital admissions start to rise again and pressure off regular care, we get the whole circus all over again. No one wants that. Everyone wants to avoid lockdowns, but everyone wants to avoid the burden of care again. That means that in the next few months you will see me as a bloodjefanatic to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate in all groups. I want us to do everything in our power to prevent this scenario. It is a real scenario that it remains in the event of a recovery in infections, but it is a very dark scenario that the revival of the number of infections could lead to hospitalisations. We want to do everything we can to prevent that from happening. I think you know what we do for that. You saw the letter and you referred to it yourself. I mention everything that has to do with monitoring, sewer water surveillance, the whole intensive sequencing, Nivel monitoring stations and so on. And everything that has to do with maintaining testing and tracing; Mrs. Kuiken has just named that. As far as vaccination is concerned, I will go into the question of what we are doing with young people. As far as the measures we have to take are concerned, I shall first of all address the questions that have been raised about regional measures. Does it make sense for us to take regional measures again? Yes, it is my answer, but I think last year's lesson is that we do not leave that to the region, so to say,'see what you think is wise', but that we take national measures that apply in the region. I think that's last year's lesson. We worked regionally last year, but at that time we announced national measures in a number of regions, which had to apply regionally, given the fact that they were quite excited to come up with firm measures when they were needed. If we have a revival in the bible, it is a bit illogical that we close the cafés in Amsterdam. The other way around, by the way, is the same. So regional: measures. We need to be able to do that, and we want to be able to do that. What measures then? Well, anything to prevent a lockdown. We need to intervene early, so we need to learn from last year. No one's waiting for a lockdown anymore. So we're going to take those measures regionally as soon as possible. Which ones are they exactly? We have the road map, of course, so you have to think about that. However, that roadmap was made in a situation with a very low vaccination rate and the last update is only from February. You have read in the letter that we want to present a new roadmap on the way to September, in September. Then the legal weighting and the extension of the corona law. What are these measures based on? We have outlined in the letter how we see it. Three routes play a role there. The very first thing is about the 1.5 meters. The 1.5 meter is not per ministerial arrangement, but per AMvB. So if we wanted to take a decision on Friday 13 August that would take place a few days later, I believe that 16 August will be the first possible option. We must have dealt with this AMvB before the summer, otherwise it will not work. Unless you have to come back from recess and you probably don't want that. So we need to deal with that AMvB in good time. I believe he will go to the Council of State next week and then I will report to the AMvB here in the Chamber to have that debate. The entry into force of the KB will then be struck on 13 August. We have to deal with the AMvB, the legal situation. I think it is good to consider the context, the weighting and how we want to see it. The second thing that is important is the extension decision, an extension KB. An extension KB has a front. In that KB extension, we can extend or cancel parts of the current Twm article by article. Our assessment based on the OMT advice is that we need to extend the bulk, but leave unactivated in the law. So we should not activate it through a ministerial arrangement. Only about curfew have we said: we probably won't have to use it in the autumn, so let's let that legal basis go as well. We are going in there for maximum proportionality. You could have just left it in your toolbox just to be safe. We're not gonna do that. We're gonna get him out. If you need it again, the moment you need it is also the moment when the cabinet talks with the Chamber about a legal basis for such an instrument. Let's really assume we don't need that anymore. That's the second one. The third is the ministerial arrangement on which measures apply at any time. We believe that for the time being we can move forward with the measures that will take place on Saturday. We expect it to last for a long time until the summer. After the summer, we come back to the point where we believe that those few measures that we still have can change. We will then report them in the modified scheme of the Twm. We therefore expect an extension of the Twm, albeit with the Bikker test, as I mentioned earlier, because we believe that there should be a weighting of proportionality and there should also be an argument for what you still need in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u172	A question from Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u173	Just to be clear. The temporary law runs until 1 September, because it has been extended from 1 July to 1 September. When are we going to discuss this front with the beautiful touch and so on? What's that look like? I'm actually asking this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u174	What we have to do for the holiday is the AMvB over the 1.5 meters. What I have now outlined is how we want to deal with the extension. I don't really have the timeline in mind right now. The KB extension will have to come up at some point, but you already know what is in that KB extension. I put it in the letter that it will be included in the KB extension. If that's what you want, I'd love to hear it, but I didn't hear it just now. You will have the arrangement when it has to come into effect. That won't be until after the summer. I'll just get the exact timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u175	I like it because I like it when we have an orderly debate on it, but also because we have said before that we want it well. The Minister is going to back that up, and I am pleased with that, but I think it is precisely the role of this Chamber to make sure that this test is in order with regard to this legislation and the detailed rules that follow. I also think that this is appropriate for our task from the key role, also towards the future. We're going to extend the arrangement from September 1st. The Minister did the pre-announcement, and I understand that, because there are still some fires. Precisely for the follow-up, I am committed to getting the process sharper when we talk about rules. Now there is a policy letter with more than 100 sides with all important things, but that is just another thing than rules and laws that we agree with each other. I'm kind of looking at how we can focus the debate on the legal framework within which we continue to operate. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister's giving me a perfect path. It is not a criticism, but I am looking for a clear and orderly legislative process that we can start together in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u176	Sure. I have very consciously indicated, given your earlier input in a number of debates that we have had, what we assume will be part of that extension plan, what is and what is not. I did it on purpose because I know you're attached to it. That'll tell you what's coming. If you wanted to make another order, I need to know, because that means we have something else to prepare for. I assume that what it says now is in line with what a majority of the Chamber feels. We'll convert that into an extension KB. That extension KB simply knows the normal legal procedure in the sense of a veil. You're the boss. An AMvB has a treatment as if it were a law, with an opinion from the Council of State et cetera. We have to do that AMvB journey before the summer, otherwise you cannot make that one-and-a-half meter decision after the summer. That one-and-a-half-meter decision will have to be dealt with in a KB and that KB will have to be struck when we can beat it. That will be on Friday 30 August and then it will start a few days later. I think I very much agree with you that we have to comply with the legal procedures that apply. I think this is how we facilitate it as much as possible. I understand you're asking what the timeline might be. I think it would be wise if I returned to that in the second term. Then I can describe it very precisely on those three tracks: the AMvB, the extension KB and the ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u177	I think it's valuable that, before we go into recess, we know what we can talk about now if we want things to be different. Indeed, I can see in the cabinet's approach that it already wants to give as much clarity as possible and that the effect is more the legal detailing rather than important, unexpected choices. I think that would be nice for our trial. I had another question about curfew. I just fell over the sentence on page 55: "We take the curfew out of the corona law, but also plays a role in that in the future such a measure should also initially find its way through the provisions of the Extraordinary Powers of Civil Authority Act." Then I thought: in the discussion about the basis, was that corona law deliberately chosen? I don't have to understand that we're getting this out of the corona law, and that, if we need to, we're gonna get the other law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u178	No, you have to understand that we're deliberately taking him out because we don't think we need him anymore. That's what we say on the authority of the OMT. That's one. Two is that we have actually created two legal bases here throughout the run-up. We initially thought that Wbbbg was a good legal basis. This has also been maintained in the appeal proceedings, as confirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeal. But because the judge in the interim proceedings did not think that was the case, we actually created a legal basis in the Twm. Once we had created it, we said: let us use it for the time being and not go back to the Wbbg regime. It actually says here: if it were necessary in a set and a jump, you would still have it in hand. But I think it is much more logical that we do not need him and b, if we do need him, that we simply end up in an urgent legislative procedure with your Chamber. That makes sense to me. Then, where the vaccination and test questions have been asked in relation to the question of how we are preparing for autumn, I simply go over to the block of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u179	Maybe it's on the varia block, but I thought the minister at the block preparation would also come back to the questions about ventilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u180	Yeah, it's in varia. I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u181	Perhaps it is also part of the varia, but the law on the closure of companies seemed to fit in best with preparing for the autumn...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u183	...but maybe the Minister has that question somewhere else in his pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u184	I don't know where that question is in the pile, but it's a very fair question. I think we should make that choice together. We have prepared the bill because the Chamber has asked for it. That is why we have prepared this bill. I think you could look at that in two ways. One way to look at that is: do we think we still need that law? Is this the time to add an additional instrument to the toolbox, or should we just do so when we need it? That's one way to look at it. There's another way to look at it. We know that in slaughterhouses and in other places we have had a real desire to close a building because there was an infection or cluster contamination there. So shouldn't we just give ourselves this power as a gift, because in the autumn you'd be doing a great job of getting the virus back on its feet where it's alive? You can go both ways. We are simply going to make the note on the basis of the report. We are going to send them to the Chamber and your Chamber will then decide whether or not we want to deal with that law. That's just up to your room. I could imagine both lines of reasoning. Or we say: we deal with it when it is necessary. Or we say, we'll treat it anyway, so that we have the law when it's needed. It can actually go either way, so the choice is really up to your room. Then we'll go to the block of vaccination. First of all, the opinion on the 12- to 18-year-olds. Many groups have very strong views on this. I understand that, too. It's just a trade-off you can make. I shall start with Mr Wilders' side. In fact, he said, and Mr Kuzu agreed with him: if we now know that we can prevent a recovery in the autumn quite well if we have the highest possible vaccination rate, should we not simply say, if all 18-plussers are together: come on, boys, we are not going to let it depend on those young people if we are sufficiently protected? Actually, I think that's a pretty good idea. That is quite a good argument, a good argument for adults anyway, to be vaccinated to the highest extent possible. The question is whether we can make it through that argument. Vaccination will always remain voluntary. That's what you want, and that's what the whole room wants, and I want it too. So we're gonna keep it that way. Vaccination will always remain voluntary. There's nothing wrong with our persuasiveness, but we're not gonna make it 100% anyway. If you don't make it to 100%, where can it go pretty well? Well, among the people who haven't been vaccinated, among the people who have a poorly functioning immune system and among the young. Does that make these young people very sick themselves? No, not very sick. By the way, a number of people will have lung covid problems. But above all, some will help spread the virus. And that's, I think, what we shouldn't want. On the basis of that argument, the OMT has said: if you do the young people, it saves 15% on the R. That's the same profit you get from the whole testing, tracing, the source and contact research, the isolation that follows, and the corona detector. That is also 15%, added to the R. In short, the vaccination of young people saves an incredible amount. So, epidemiologically, it's a good idea. From a social point of view, the argument is also quite valid: what have our young people suffered most? Maybe that's not from the virus itself, but it's from the measures against that virus. An infection in the classroom means quarantine, and that means interrupted education. No one's waiting for that. Now, please, let's try not to do that in the autumn. Those are two important arguments for it. Why do I want to wait for the advice of the Health Council? That's because I know parents will be shivering. With the advice of the Health Council, I want to be able to have a conversation with parents and with young people themselves. That will require intensive discussions and it will not be immediately convinced. You need to be able to talk about the medical-ethical side of it and thus, for example, about the side effects. How big a risk is that, anyway? What are the international lessons of that? And although the cabinet actually says that there are a lot of arguments as to why that seems sensible, we have said: let us take the decision on this only when the Health Council has advised on it. I expect that advice in the next few weeks. Before then, we do not have enough vaccines to vaccinate young people between 12 and 18 years old. So we just have time. Let us now take that time to have a good discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u185	Your last question, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u186	That will be a very long one, Mr President. The Minister has undoubtedly also taken note of an opinion document in one of the morning newspapers of a number of doctors. It was in De Telegraaf in which that piece of an infectiologist, a vaccineologist, an immunologist, a professor and so on stood up. These people say don't do that. Kids don't get seriously ill. In any case, the chances of them getting seriously ill are very small. The probability of death is almost zero. I told you, the chances of them having a stake in the distribution are virtually zero according to the British Medical Journal. You have to vaccinate children if that's useful to them, and not to anyone else. Károly Illy, president of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics, also says: don't! Kids are hardly at risk themselves. Don't do that! It is also different from other national vaccination programmes. If they are themselves at risk, fine, but not when it comes to risking others. In children, of course, that is absolutely true. I am glad that the Minister agrees with me and that he says that it would be very nice if we could ensure that other people, adults, would willingly want to be poked with a line under voluntary restraint, because then it is not necessary. But it's not a cow business. You can't run a cow business with kids. For if that is unexpectedly disappointing and that is not what you hope to achieve, then you cannot say: it is disappointing with those adults, so come on, children, you do not suffer from it yourself, perhaps you will suffer from that vaccination, but in any case it is not necessary for your own health, because the chance of dying or entering a hospital is almost zero. Let's go. For group immunity, we're gonna do it anyway. I just don't think that's appropriate for kids. It's not a cow business. Unless you have a reason why you're doing it for the kids, which is because it's better for the kids. But everyone, including the president of the association that deals with children, says don't. Then neither should we. And then we shouldn't do that later. The Minister says, "We'll wait and see, we still have time." I understand that, but you should never do it as a cow business. Get your hands off those kids! My appeal to you is: no cow business, don't do it, don't roll it out and don't call them in any scenario. If parents then want something for children individually and so does the child and they ask the GGD or GGD: "Do it in my case," then freedom is fine in that. But don't make it a program in which you call them, because that's real cow business, and we shouldn't do that with our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u187	Let me return to the discussion on the determining risks for this autumn. It concerns the degree of transmission inhibition, the extent to which mutations escape vaccination, the extent to which immunity could decrease, the extent to which viruses are introduced from abroad and the level and homogeneity of vaccination. That will determine this autumn. A revival of the number of infections can also mean a revival of the number of hospitalisations due to the fact that some people are not vaccinated and another part of the population, which has been vaccinated, has insufficient immune response. If you want to reduce the risk that people will find themselves in hospitals again, which means that care will have to be scaled down again, then vaccination of young people from 12 to 17 years old will never save you calling them children but young people, for example I learned from my own children about 15% on the R in autumn. That is the calculation as the RIVM models. That is of such an essential importance that, in my opinion, you cannot say: we are putting that aside anyway, because we believe that children should not be vaccinated. That's why I'm saying this. I can see the difference of opinion as to whether this would benefit them very much individually. By the way, I think so, but I'll get to that in a minute. I can understand that trade-off. The people who wrote that piece of opinion seem to weigh that very heavily. They say: the ethical weighting you have to make is, in particular, the individual utility risk assessment. I think there is another benefit-risk assessment, namely the benefit-risk assessment for the collective. It is often the case with vaccinations that we ask everyone to be vaccinated, because the collective is a good idea. In this case, we also ask young people from 12 to 17 years of age, because this will be a very decisive factor towards autumn. It actually makes the difference to whether the R is above 1 or not. That's a difference the OMT says you can't just walk by. That's one. Two. If you make the individual ethical weighting for young people, I believe that this includes the degree of continuity in education, which you have just seen in recent times. An infection in the classroom means that all children must go home and receive education again via such a screen. Haven't they been behind that screen enough already? I think so. Suppose you're having this conversation with parents, then parents will also say: collectively, I think that's very important, but this is about my children. That's kind of the argument you're putting forward. There will be parents who will reason as follows: "That education, fine, but I prefer not to have that vaccination. 18-plussers are fine, but those young people aren't." With these parents, I also need to talk about possible side effects and the actually calculated benefit-risk distribution. That's why I need that advice from the Health Council. If you ask me now, I say: 'For the sake of the epidemiological argument and the social argument, just do it. It's just very sensible: do it!" But I know a lot of feelings live here. That is why I do not want to take the decision until we have the complete and balanced opinion of the Health Council, in which all the arguments are well weighed side by side. Just because it's an important discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u188	There is a question from Mr Van Haga and then from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u189	I do not know if the Minister is going to deal with my question, but then perhaps as a shot in the face. I asked if the risk weighting in children is not always at the disadvantage of the vaccine. You just said something about it. You call it a utility risk assessment. You're talking about individual ethical considerations. You say, "One contagion, the whole class has to go home." Those are your own rules, for Christ's sake. So it's a bit posh to take that argument along with it. I have the following question about the risk weighting in children. Kids don't get sick. The asymptomatic transfer is nil. Then why would you vaccinate children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u190	I think I just backed that up. There are a number of arguments for doing that. The first argument is an epidemiological argument. You don't do it so much for the individual, but you do it for the collective. In this way, the highest possible level of group immunity can be achieved and as homogeneous a vaccination rate among all groups can be achieved. This minimises the risk that the virus can still go around and that people who are not vaccinated or who are not vaccinated are exposed to it. It may well be that we will have a small revival in the autumn, but it does mean that there will be no wave of hospitalisations coming after us. This benefits society as a whole. That's the epidemiological argument. Still a little while. In addition, you have the social argument. An infection in class means the class has to go home. You could say, "Oh, man, we're just gonna make it happen." It seems very unwise to let that happen, because then you are sure that it will get out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u191	That's what you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u192	We continue to strongly disagree about who you're doing it for. I think you're doing it for yourself. If you're vulnerable, you need to vaccinate yourself voluntarily. Fine. But you're not doing it for anyone else. Children do not suffer from corona at all. They're gonna get a brat at the most. So it's totally out of order to vaccinate children. But now there's something else. The risk of myocardiitis is 1 in 15,000. You then get a risk weighting where the risks of vaccination are greater than the benefit. I'd still like to hear you reflect on that. It's really weird that you do it for others. That social element is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u193	I'm very sorry to hear you say that. I think that you and I have a pretty good chance of getting sick when we get corona, but then we can get back to our lives quite quickly. But we also vaccinate ourselves, because we want to protect others. We know that there is a significant degree of transmission inhibition after vaccination. If you know you have a chance to do something very meaningful, to protect vulnerable people, then I think it's a no-brainer that you just choose. So it is, because of vaccination, you protect yourself. So it is, because of vaccination, you're protecting someone else. Of course, this also applies to young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u194	I think we really live in parallel worlds. You're vaccinating to protect yourself, and young people are a different category. They do not have to protect themselves at all, because they are not at risk. They're not protecting anyone else either. If Grandma wants to be vaccinated to protect herself, that's fine, but those kids... It doesn't give a pass to vaccinate them! There are other solutions, namely just as with flu: if you have a snot nose because of the flu, you stay home. This is a fundamental difference in the risk weighting in children, because the side effects of vaccines in children are now greater than the results of vaccinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u195	Of course, the latter is not true and that first is not true either. Grandma can belong exactly to those 5% of people who actually don't have an immune response. Grandma can't be vaccinated for any other reason. And apart from that, suppose Grandma doesn't want to be vaccinated. What if that's the case? Then you can say "your own fault, big bump," but if grandma then gets sick and grandma ends up on the ic anyway and we still get a wave in the hospitals and care has to be scaled down again, then that means that the rest of society suffers from that again. So all these things are connected. Just pretending that doesn't exist, is... And what is really wrong is pretending that young people would suffer greater harm from vaccination than they would benefit from it. That is, of course, really wrong, and it is also undermining the willingness to be vaccinated and therefore just for public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u196	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u197	That's right. That's right. It is interesting because it is now specified to a very small group, for example elderly people with immune deficiency or elderly people who do not want to be vaccinated. So, in your view, for a very small minuscule group, we have to vaccinate all those children from 10 to 19 years of age. I think it's absolutely criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u198	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u199	Still a little while. I'll leave that for you. But the important thing is that it's not about a small group. We really have to assume that about 15% will not be vaccinated and that 5% of the vaccinees are not sufficiently protective due to immune deficiency. If at some point we let go of those 1.5 meters and we distribute to a decent extent that virus, they will be exposed to that virus. That makes it possible that there will be new hospitalizations after all. We do not know exactly how it will go, because that will have to do very much with the transmission risk. But the risk is there. We cannot ignore that and the vaccination of young people reduces the risk of getting back above that R-1. So we will have to consider that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u200	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister to respond a little more compactly, because after almost an hour and a half we are at block three. Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u201	I am sure the Minister will do so after he has responded extensively to my question. I wonder why we still need that advice from the Health Council. When I listen to the Minister like that, he's pretty convinced. We also know that there are some uncertainties about the autumn. However, I believe that the Minister and I agree that we must ensure that we increase the vaccination rate to 80% to 85%. If we get that 80% or that 85%, the number of hospital admissions will be very low and the number of infections will not be too bad. Does he agree with that? If so, is the argument to interrupt education for an entire class after one recorded infection no longer valid? Does this not remove the Minister's second argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u202	No, I wish. Again, we're just dealing with a number of uncertainties that we don't know exactly how they work out. I just called them. I'm not gonna name them again. Which means you'll have to prepare for those uncertainties. What we know for sure is that as high a vaccination rate as possible and as homogeneous a vaccination rate as possible will work anyway. Therefore was very ported from your photo. I know that I live near that Afrikaanderwijk, that people look at it and think that Kuzu is doing it, so I can do it. The same applies to Mr Wilders' picture. I appreciate that very much. I also know how fierce the reactions can be, including from your constituents. It is precisely that you do, that helps in the conviction of the people who have to do so. Because where do we see that vaccination rate is the lowest? In fact, in all the places where people themselves do not have enough opportunity to turn to information. This applies to migrant communities, low-skilled, low-literate and so on. In short, with the prick bus in the neighborhood. A vaccination rate as high as possible will help anyway. We know it's never going to be 100%, nor is it going to be 99% or 95%. There will always be people who will not be vaccinated and who will always be people who will not be vaccinated. That is why you need to further broaden the built-up immunity, namely among young people: 12- to 17-year-olds. I think that's just important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u203	I rode my bike on that day on a Monday and cycled to Katendrecht and indeed took the vaccination a few hundred metres away from the Minister's house. A pleasant experience, I say. The next point is the question of uncertainty in the direction of autumn. We know that there are violent reactions when it comes to vaccination of children. We have sent out an advisory question to the Health Council, but we are already pre-sorting on a programme where we are going to vaccinate children or young people from 12 to 18 years of age. I can very well imagine that in people who are watching this debate and listening to this minister, who hear his belief that this is really necessary, it is only suspicious, especially in people who are already strongly opposed to the vaccination programme that is already running and that is going to be set up for children in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u204	I don't think so. You also saw the OMT advice. I also think it is up to the cabinet to position itself, also in relation to the OMT opinion, which supports the need from an epidemiological point of view. In addition, there are social arguments and medical-ethical arguments. There are arguments and rebuttals of everything that could be said there about possible side effects. I'm not going into that last one right now. We know all about that from American studies. I'm not going into that right now, because I really think it's up to the Health Council to weigh those research outcomes. I think that it is important to say where we stand as a cabinet and at the same time to make the final decision on this subject dependent on the advice of the Health Council, because that advice from the Health Council is also simply necessary in order to have a good conversation with parents. What if they were to ask me the question: what are the chances of myocardiitis? Then I must be able to give a scientifically sound answer to that. We really just need the Health Council to do that. It will support that numerically and it will also say that you can also have myocardiitis if you haven't been vaccinated and have that corona infection. Myocarditis is always reversible, so reparable. That's all going to be in the Health Council's advice, including how to weigh it. I think it is important to be able to highlight that whole picture, all these arguments, supported by a series of white coats. That's just necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u206	This was the vaccination of young people. Then we continue with the questions about combining vaccines. I've asked the Health Council for advice a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u207	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. De Vries. Was it about the last topic? Yes. Then Mrs. De Vries, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u208	It is quite remarkable that a number of parties who have argued for so much freedom and choice in recent months would not want to do so now. I'm still not clear when advice comes from the Health Council. The Minister says in a few weeks. My question in my contribution was above all: how soon can the programme or the offer to parents and young people be made that they can voluntarily get a shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u209	Excuse me, that's an important point. Because sometimes it is assumed that we could have started if we had already had that advice. That's not true, because we're of course just vaccinating the 18-plussers first. Let's do it first. In the second half of August we are done with that. Young people with a medical indication can be vaccinated in between. That just walks along and inviting that group is already running. If the 18-plussers have been, the young people go right after them without medical indication. So that's somewhere in the second half of August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u210	I'd like to come back to what you just said about myocardiitis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u211	Yes. Is there a doctor in the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u212	This subject was not raised by me, but by Mr Van Haga. But it sounded as if you were suggesting that this would occur as a side effect in children or adolescents who have had covid infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u213	Neither much, but perhaps it would be good to await the advice of the Health Council on this. I know that there has been a very strong discussion on this in Israel. It was said there at a certain point: you should want to, because young people can develop such heart muscle inflammation by vaccination. Well, there's a lot to be said and written about. At least the numbers are very low. And it should always be sidelined that you can get the same heart muscle inflammation from an infection. That's possible, and there's a certain incidence of it. I would like to cite it as an example of why I should not take the decision myself, now, at the moment, and convince parents of it. I call it the reason why we need the advice of the Health Council first. We just need the advice of white coats, for example on this point. That is what we need in order to be able to enter into that conversation in a well-founded manner. That is precisely what this is an example for. Then there is another issue, namely the mix-and-match; after Astra perhaps also Pfizer? The first thing that matters is the question: can that second shot of Astra just be given after you've had the first shot of Astra? I have explicitly asked the Health Council a number of times. Are there any risks to that? The incidence of a serious side effect with the second shot of Astra, after you've had a first, is really astronomical low. It's really astronomical low. I believe there has really been a handful of cases on millions of vaccinations. In fact, it has been for a long time that the same side effect had never been there at all with that second shot, on all millions of vaccinations. And now I believe it's three or five cases in really tens of millions of vaccinations. In short: that risk is very low. So, yes, people with peace of mind can also just take that second vaccine from Astra. But I also know that people have read the paper. People say that "one in a million" could all be, but I just don't want it anymore and I just want Pfizer for the second shot anyway. Isn't that okay? Well, I'm not saying you can't. Because Mrs Van den Berg is absolutely right: people who were actually pre-sorted for Astra, we have the opportunity to take another vaccine if they do not want Astra. We're a little past the stage of "pricking what the pot buys." We're actually more in the phase of: take the shot that's coming your way. But people might want to mix and match. Well, we tried that on the Chancellor of Germany. It turns out it's working well with her. There are countries that do that. It happens especially in Germany, by the way. There are a number of other countries that are very reluctant to do so. I spoke to EEA's boss last week, Emer Cooke. She said that EEA would deliver an opinion on this at the end of the month. And I'm pretty sure the advice from the Health Council based on that will follow soon. The international sounds about that are now that that mixes might well be possible. If it is possible in the opinion of the Health Council, then of course we are going to take a very sympathetic look at it. So that's what we're in, but I don't want to make the decision until we get the opinion of the Health Council. I do not want to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u214	I don't even get the impression that people don't want that second shot of Astra right now because they're afraid of the side effects. 'Cause if it went well with the first shot, I think that confidence will be restored. But in the technical briefing we have had, of course, we have also heard very clearly that with two doses of the Pfizer vaccine you have 94% protection, and 88% protection against the delta variant. That percentage is just lower with Astra. So I think people's motivation is: I just have a better chance of not getting sick with Pfizer. Now the Minister says: at the end of June, the EEA will deliver an opinion and then we will go to the Health Council. Yeah, by then, everyone's had the second shot of Astra. However, if the Minister were to say something positive about this today, we would be able to deal with it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u215	I don't know if that would help. If I said today "Of course, we're going to do that," there might be a lot of people who say, "I won't take that second Astrarik, I'll take a Pfizer prick." As a result, others have to wait longer, so that also slows down the whole operation. In addition, you immediately come up with the assumption that mix-and-match, that combination, would lead to higher protection, but we don't know that. That is precisely what EEA's opinion is about and then the opinion of the Health Council. So I think it is really wise not to draw a conclusion on this, but to await the advice of EMA and that of the Health Council. That shouldn't take long at all. I understand from EEA that they want to come up with an opinion at the end of this month and it's already, what is it, June 24th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u216	If that comes, and then the advice of the Health Council, that means de facto that everyone has had about their second Astrarik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u217	I hope so, I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u218	By the middle of July, almost everyone had their second Astrarik, I think. The Minister will not be able to make his decision long before that. I understand from the Minister that if there is to be another booster shot in the autumn, then the variant will be on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u219	No, that's a completely different discussion, which we've also filed with the Health Council. We just don't know yet. That has everything to do with one of the other uncertain factors, namely: what is the rate of reduction of immunity? It seems that immunity remains fair. However, we will not know that until the autumn, because no one has had a vaccination programme for months. I think Israel is furthest, so we will learn first how quickly the reduction of immunity will be among certain target groups. They mostly pricked Pfizer. From England, I think we're gonna learn how it works with Astra. Then we will also know what we will have to do with this booster shot in the autumn. That was the mix-and-match question. How many vaccines do we now have available for donation? With those countries where we have a special relationship, we would like to make a bilateral donation. That's what we did with Suriname. I'm working on Cape Verde. I'm working on Indonesia. These are countries where we have a special bilateral relationship. I think it is important to do our work in that too. Not the vaccine diplomacy you see China companies, but just help countries that can count on you. Actually, that's more it. After that, I want to make all surpus available via COVAX as soon as possible. After all, the distribution system of COVAX is more objective, one might say. We have also received requests from third countries where there is indeed a great need for vaccination, but I believe that this should go through COVAX. Where we do not have a special bilateral relationship, we want to do it via COVAX. That depends very much on the deliveries. I know, for example, that there will soon be a fairly large supply from Astra that we need very little of. So we can give away quite a lot of that. I'm just gonna pick the fastest route to put those vaccines away. For Janssen, we don't know what that's gonna look like. Pfizer told us we're gonna need it for a while, just like Moderna. We know that in July the deliveries of Pfizer and Moderna will be lower, much lower, than we are getting now. At least that applies to Pfizer. Moderna's going up a little bit, but not enough to compensate. Where we're still sitting on the 1.5 million, I think we're going to fall below 1 million as of July. So for the time being we need Pfizer and Moderna stuff ourselves. So we're not giving it away yet. If there are new vaccines that we no longer need, we will make them all available via COVAX. I think it would be wise to quote the numbers in a subsequent letter. They are, of course, dependent on the planning of deliveries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u220	I've got a little review here. Firstly, the financial costs. The IMF estimates that vaccination of the world's population will cost EUR 40 billion by mid 2022, if we are all to stand for it as a Western world. This is in stark contrast to the loss on the international GDP of 9 trillion euros. I have just calculated that this investment would cost all of us 0.44% if we were to help vaccinate the world, rather than lock up globally again. That's one. Secondly, according to the WHO, global production capacity is only 40%, while there is absolutely more production capacity and there are also more raw materials. According to the WHO, for example, there are 19 companies that can produce mRNA vaccines. According to these international institutions, there seems to be a lot of room on the production side. And then there are the financial consequences, and then I'm not even talking about the immaterial, human consequences, that we're all going crazy about this corona for a second. We also just want the economy to revive and so on. So the arguments are stacking up. I say it more often and I will say it again: I am not confident that China is vaccinating the world through shady constructions, creating goodwill and thereby measuring itself more geopolitical hegemony. I kindly ask the Minister to include these figures in the considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u221	I quite agree, not with all the qualifications, of course, because I would express myself much more diplomatically. But I think it's totally true. Every investment we make in vaccination of the rest of the world is very well spent money. You can hardly spend your money better than vaccination in the rest of the world. So that's what we're doing. We donate the vaccines we have in surplus, and this year we are really talking about tens of millions, sometimes bilaterally and more often via COVAX. We will, of course, continue to do so, because we think that is important. In addition, we are committed to increasing production. I have a WTO meeting tomorrow on helping to promote production, to identify and address barriers. I share what you say perfectly. Then about China. We can see that China is indeed doing vaccine diplomacy. You can also see that the effectiveness of Sinovac is a bit disappointing. Thanks to the lack of effectiveness, the possibilities have been somewhat slowed down, but we should not be naive in that, you are right. You should see that. We do not ourselves do a Chinese type of vaccine diplomacy. What we do do is just help countries that count on us. We want to make a great deal of effort in this respect, including with a great deal of financial resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u222	Let me ask you a final question about this. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that there is talk at EU level, at the WTO and at the WTO about increasing production capacity, so that this is really going to get off the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u223	Absolutely. That's what my WTO meeting is about tomorrow. Then on that other side of the matter, to release the patents; please do so. We have had quite a lot of discussions about this. I'm not ruling out that it could come of it either. It's not like we don't want it or anything, but you have to keep a close eye on the long-term effects. Besides, I'd really like to scale up the production. What are the obstacles to this? I always hear those figures from the WHO. I cannot place that 40% well, especially if you look at the potential European production capacity, but well, there are indeed a number of countries worldwide that would like to increase production capacity even further. So tomorrow is the first World Local Production Forum of the WHO. I'll close it. I will also announce that the Netherlands will be the host country of the next World Local Production Forum. The idea of this is that governments, international organisations and private parties together look at what is needed to further scale up that production capacity. That really is the fastest way out of this crisis. If there are enough vaccines for Suriname, Mrs Van den Berg asks. Yes. By the end of this week, more than 250,000 doses will have been delivered to Suriname. Next week we receive a large delivery of AstraZeneca, of which we reserve 250,000 doses for Suriname, and which we can also deliver quickly. Then we look at how many more vaccines are needed for Suriname. If that's what we want, we'll deliver more. That's my appointment with Amar Ramadhin, my colleague from Suriname. Those were the international vaccine questions. And then there's the yellow book. I think we should talk more about the yellow book. This morning I got the question: now the digital corona certificate is there, but now people have already lined up for that yellow book. Then I say: yes, Mrs. Chicken told me not to, of course. That yellow book! Yes, look, the possible addition to that yellow booklet does not, of course, comply with the agreements we have made in Europe. That's why people can't get anything from it when they travel. At GGD locations, the addition of the vaccination in the yellow booklet is provided as an additional service. GGDs agreed to do that: that's what we're gonna do. Hospitals can of course agree with each other, but I'm not gonna make them or anything. I can't, but I'm not gonna. Hospitals can do that. And if your question is "would you like to ask hospitals?', Then my answer is: yes, I would like to ask hospitals. But, one, I'm not gonna give the impression that that actually helps people and, two, I'm not gonna make hospitals do it either. I think I've run out of vaccination questions. Well, not quite. Mrs Den Haan asks me what I'm going to do to promote that second shot. Well, that second shot is super important anyway. Anywhere I can, I'll tell you. Wherever people like to make the comparison with the United Kingdom, I will say that this second shot is an important thing there and that we absolutely must do so. That is what we bring to our attention in as many communication expressions as possible. In practice, this is how it works: when you sign up, you get the second appointment right away. For the second date, you always get reminder texts. I'll take a look at the text from that text. I think it's quite business, but I think the need for it is becoming clear. I'll see if that could be reinforced. By the way, I think the vaccination certificate is also a pretty good encouragement to that second shot, because if you are not fully vaccinated, you do not get a vaccination certificate, you do not get a digital corona certificate. Dan: GPs don't change their schedule. Well, a lot of them, of course. But some say: I'm sorry, I don't get it to adjust my entire schedule for that. But I think general practitioners also look at England with a slanted eye and see that you make people a little more vulnerable to infection if you choose an overly long interval. Honestly, I think general practitioners are doing what they can to actually shorten that interval. In any case, it is well on their mind that this is necessary and desirable, not only for the sake of holidays, but also for the sake of protection, i.e. for health reasons. Can we make sure the non-mobile home residents are pricked as soon as possible? I believe that Mr Kuzu also had a question about this. Oh, yeah. Vaccination of non-mobile residents is a complex operation to be carried out by mobile teams and by general practitioners. In any case, general practitioners vaccinate non-mobile people over 60 years of age with the AstraZeneca vaccine. In addition, there is a group of non-mobile people under 60 who do not receive AstraZeneca, but a mRNA vaccine. Of course, those mRNA vaccines are new to general practitioners. To prick that group of non-mobile home residents I made agreements with home vaccination.nl. But because of the size of that club it's a little too small to make a real pace. That's why some people have to wait too long, I think. Well, actually, I wish GPs would still do that. Some general practitioners do, but the LHV has indicated that they are not prepared to do so. That means that I have to make agreements with another executive. I am looking, for example, at the district nurses. That was also your suggestion. So we're already working on that suggestion. Then there's the G.G.D. bus in the neighborhood. Instead of the elderly with a migration ground, young people sometimes come to that. I think you will see the GGD all summer in the neighborhood and in all possible places, because it is really necessary to prick all those people who apparently experience a threshold when coming to the location. Whether they are young people or elderly people, for a holiday or for any other reason: I don't care where, I don't care for any reason. If they can be punctured, they just need to be punctured. The GGD will move into the neighbourhood many more times. My picture is that everyone gets their turn in the end. Then I'm gonna go to a few test questions, and then I'm gonna go to all the travel issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u224	Maybe, before you continue... There is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg. And I would like to ask the Minister: I would like to move on to the other minister's contribution by half past eight, so I would ask this Minister, including the interruptions, to take that into account so that we can move on to the other minister at 8.30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u225	Absolutely, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u226	It also applies to the interruptions, which must therefore also be shorter and more concise, I would ask Members to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u227	Yes, but there's just one question I haven't answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u228	I'll give you every opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u229	I've given an example of someone who's in a coma with a basic skull bill in the hospital, and they're fired without a shot. So while it has been very seriously ill and still very vulnerable, it comes home without a shot. I also asked a question about this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u230	Well, a very specific example. I do not know what that would be like in this particular case. But I would think that there are so many possibilities to organize it, either through the general practitioner or through the medical specialist, because every hospital has a stash at the moment. Either that the transfer nurse, who arranges the transfer home, makes an appointment at the GGD. Yeah, there are so many possibilities, I'd think this would be easily soluble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u231	I don't have any interruptions either. I asked another question about vaccination at Schiphol. I don't know if that's gonna come up when you travel? Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u232	Yeah, on the road. Spoiler: that might not be a very good idea. But I'll get back to you on that. Then the test locations. They are not easily accessible to everyone, says Mrs Van den Berg; is it possible to use mobile test buses? Yeah, that's definitely possible, and that's exactly what we're doing. I would like to say that the Open Netherlands Foundation now has a coverage rate of 86% on 20 minutes of travel time, and 98% on 30 minutes of travel time, and that is certainly quite an achievement. Mrs Van der Plas once reminded me of Zeeland-Flanders. Well, on Zeeland-Flanders there is a location. And now you can see on the map that Schouwen-Duiveland has not yet been provided. Well, that's where that mobile unit has to go, of course. One island, a Wadden Island, did succeed; a number of other Wadden Islands did not. Can't there be an event there at all? No, of course not, because that's where you can test your cell phone. In short, they will, of course, supplement it, but I would add one thing to that. Look, what we've got is quite a build-up of GGD capacity. Whatever we have, it's a pretty well-built test-for-access capability. Whatever we have, it's a pretty well-built test-for-travel capacity. And not knowing how much of all that testing capacity is actually going to be needed, I think we're also trying to avoid spending too much money on things you don't need... Look, I'm for it, huh? You just need a firefighter function. But we also have to deal with this a little wisely from a public point of view, so we will make the estimates we make each time; especially after today, because we can actually do the same things with a vaccination certificate as with a negative test statement. So I think that for testing for access, as people are increasingly vaccinated, the test capacity that is needed will actually decrease. That's what I'm expecting. Then the tests for education. Higher education: students cannot order new self-tests. I don't recognize that, quite frankly, because what I understand from OCW is that the appointment made with the national portal is until 31 July. And of course what I'm doing next... Look, in testing everyone who gets back into society after the holidays, I actually see an important opportunity to get that fourth wave in the browse early at least, and preferably to stop right away. So what I really want is for everyone to get as much testing as possible after the holidays. This also means that in the first two weeks of the new academic year or school year I really want to continue that preventive testing. And that means that there may be other agreements to be made about how students get those tests, so I'm also going to see if the appointment that has been made now, which until 31 July, is actually sufficient to ensure that everyone gets tested before he starts the new academic year. I really think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u233	Yeah, that's good to know, but that wasn't my question. My question was the opposite: in secondary schools, so not higher education, you see that schools no longer order the tests, because they simply find that their pupils do not actually use them at all. And then you see that the condition under which the schools opened, namely twice a week testing everyone, is actually not working out at all. And I was also curious if, for example, there were percentages of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u234	I thought that was your other question. I don't know those percentages myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u235	I lived on the assumption that my question was not answered, but that is true, because you are answering Mrs Westerveld's question. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u236	Yes, but I might have answered that question to you, where Mrs Westerveld is actually concerned. Well, a supposed left-wing partnership was that. You asked about those tests that were in the bushes after school. Of course, that is really a waste of the stuff, but also a waste of the appointment, because that appointment was made for a good reason. The degree of contagion among young people of the age of vo is simply decent. Not all teachers have already been fully vaccinated, so I assume that schools have a real interest in being strict on this towards their pupils. I also assume that parents encourage their young people, their children, and say: just do that, how bad is twice a test a week? We're not gonna achieve 100% compliance. That's not gonna happen. But I think it's just necessary for young people to get tested before they get back into class, especially after the holiday, when they've gone off on the camping disco. So we're gonna bet on that. We do that in a number of ways. One: through education itself. The first two weeks of the new school year simply apply the preventive testing regime, but really, given what Mr Kwint says about what is happening in some schools. Two: I also want to investigate how I can deliver these tests home-to-home, to ensure that anyone who enters society after the holiday is tested. Which brings me right to the travel pad. It's about traveling, DCC, quarantine and what's more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u237	Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u238	The question about the website was my question. The policy is that you want people to test themselves. That's what we've been wanting in higher education for quite a while. At the same time, and that is of course very special, the website on which this is arranged will be removed before the new academic year begins. So I can't rhyme with that. Therefore, the request to the Minister, for example, to give the guarantee that that website will remain in the air until at least the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u239	I do not know the latter, because of course all this costs a lot of money. What we must do is exactly what Mrs Westerveld says, namely to see if it should take a little longer. We want all young people before they start their new academic year to simply test themselves preventively. Then how did they get their stuff? If you close the place on 31 July, it might well be that it is not entirely practical. So we just need to take a look at that. That's what OCW's doing. For a moment I thought your question was: how is it that this website is already out of the blue or that people can't order new tests anymore? But that website runs until July 31st anyway. OCW needs to see what is most practical for the new academic year and whether it should go through for example a month or maybe two months extra. OCW's watching that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u240	You have four questions in total, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u241	Then I'll come to the travelers. I'm gonna go back to what those risks are after the summer. This is the introduction of new variants from abroad and the introduction of a virus from Chersonissos at all. That's what might bother us. This means that we would very much like to test returning holidaymakers. How do you do that? You can send them all to the GGD, but you have to count on 8 million, 9 million tests in the months of August and September. That is, of course, an absurd effort. And it doesn't have to be, because people also have their own responsibility. But we do want to help people take that responsibility. That means we're doing a few things. Anyway, we're gonna meet for the kids. Let's get tested. Wherever you're from, let's get tested. Wherever you've been on vacation, just get tested. We know that that was also last year the group that started the second wave. We must prevent this from becoming the group with which the fourth wave begins. So get tested. The GGD therefore adds them as asymptomatic group: as a group that does not have to have any complaints and is just welcome for a test. The suggestion made by Mr Paternotte, to which I believe Mrs De Vries attached herself, was: can this be done at Schiphol? The answer is yes, so can Schiphol. There we have a very large test facility on P4, one of the parking lots. If that were to go too far for some people, which, of course, cannot be done at all for young people, then we would also like to see how this can be done more easily. That's more practical than building a test street with every trunk on Schiphol. That is a bit labour-intensive. It's an extra facility. We want people all to be tested when they come back. For young people, we also facilitate their access to the GGD. I also want to give all those who come back from vacation the opportunity to be tested by a self-test. In the case of a positive test result, a confirmation test must of course follow at the GGD. We do that confirmation test by PCR, so that we can also keep a close eye on the variants that have all been in the suitcase and are currently moving on Dutch soil. The thing about Schiphol. Now Mr Paternotte had the idea to do the pricking at Schiphol, just before you get on the plane. That has the disadvantage now that I have to remove vaccines from the shots that are just planned, to facilitate that. Besides, you don't know who's gonna use it. I don't think that's convenient. Secondly, this has the disadvantage that it doesn't make people so crazy anyway, because if you want to be vaccinated on holiday, you have to arrange that in advance, because almost all countries say: you were fully vaccinated only after you had that second shot fourteen days ago. In the Netherlands we deal with this extremely relaxed. We immediately give people that DCC at the moment they have had the second shot and this can be found in the register. But many abroad says: no, fourteen days. Getting pricked at Schiphol suggests you can go into another country with that, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u242	The minister enthusiastically tells us about the prick buses that we are going to see all over the Netherlands this summer. The cabinet itself says that 5.5 million people are travelling this summer. From the CBS, we know half of that goes by plane. So 2.5 million people are coming through Schiphol this summer. Many of them will not have been vaccinated yet. If there's one place where you can find a lot of people who haven't been pricked yet, but you can have them pricked to get through the summer with as many people vaccinated as possible, it's Schiphol. That's an incredible missed opportunity, isn't it? I'd say, Minister, drive that prick bus to Schiphol. Put him on the peak days at Schiphol Plaza. You can catch a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u243	Mwah. Maybe the GGD Kennemerland wants to choose that, but I really think there are smarter ways to get people vaccinated and find people who haven't been vaccinated yet. On the contrary, I think that most of the people who leave the country via Schiphol have been vaccinated, or have otherwise activated their DCC in a way other than by vaccination, namely by negative testing. 'Cause you're kind of suggesting that if you take that shot right before you board, you're gonna come into that country you want to go to. And that's not the case. So that doesn't seem super brilliant to me. But maybe Kennemerland chooses that and the GGD in Kennemerland says: that's what we're going to do. I'm not gonna stop them, I'm fine with it. If they think they can find a lot of people there, I'm fine with it. Except that doesn't make it the holiday solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u244	Let me come back to the Minister's previous point. The CDA had asked that anyone who comes back from a yellow country by plane be required to test if they do not have a DCC. I understand that the Minister says: I do not want to impose it, but anyone who enters Schiphol or any other airport gets a free self-test from us and all young people are always welcome to the GGD anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u245	Just a little more specific. I think that anyone who returns to society after the holiday should test themselves. And why? Because we prevent that after the holiday, when we are all going to become more active and meet each other again, the virus that is present in the country at that time, giving a kickstart towards autumn. We shouldn't do that. So we're all testing, anyway. I think that people have a real responsibility there, but in order to facilitate this, I want to make those self-tests available everywhere, preferably door-to-door, preferably to anyone who tests themselves at home. The second is: an additional risk group are the young. I want to agree with the education that we are going to test preventively for the first two weeks of the school year. That is two and that is actually the preventive testing as we do now: twice a week a self-test et cetera. In addition, young people are quite a risk group at all and that's why the GGD already says: you are welcome as asymptomatic group, also with us on the test street, so you just come and have a test. Mr Paternotte's suggestion was to do the same at Schiphol. I said at the time: we have a rather large testing facility there, so it's fine to make that test facility available to young people without agreement. That's what I like to talk to Kennemerland about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u246	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u247	We'll continue with the other reissues. I'll start with the DCC. It's a special day today, because we launched the 2.0 version of the CoronaCheck app. We'll take it easy. You can download it from the App Store or from the Play Store. If you'd already downloaded it, you'll get an update today from the App Store and the Play Store. We try to limit the extent to which people are going to consult the databases of the RIVM and the GGD, because if we don't limit that and that service is going to melt there, there are all kinds of other processes that you don't want to stall. The same goes for DigiD. We limit that somewhat, but I think at the end of the day about a million people have been able to access databases. In the coming days, that will be even more true, at least for those people who have been fully vaccinated. That's about five million. They have their vaccination certificate in that CoronaCheck app and can go to events next Saturday where it is released 1.5 meters. That's really something to celebrate, no matter how crazy it might feel after such a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u248	Thank you. If the Minister wishes to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u249	This is also possible for international travel movements on 1 July. Are we well on schedule to go live? Yes. The 2.0 version can already be based on vaccination certificates. The 3.0 version, which we launch on July 1, will also work with recovery certificates, so with positive test results. The period from now until 1 July can be used to make sure that the app is actually on everyone's phone and that everyone can upload their vaccination data. Imagine for a moment that a registration is not in the central database. By the way, 91% is good, but imagine that you are one of the 9%. Then it is possible to collect the vaccination data from your vaccination setter via a web portal from 1 July onwards and to still create the QR code. He is also available on paper, also from July 1, by calling 0247 247 247. That's where you can order him, then you get the paper vaccination certificate sent home. So you can get him on paper that'll appeal to Mrs. Chicken or you can upload him into the app. In short, there's a lot of work going on, it's a huge project, but things are going well in preparation. Mr Kuzu asked why a serological test could not be included in the DCC app. It has been decided at European level that a positive NAT test, i.e. the PCR test, is really the best basis for this, which should not be older than 180 days. In particular, this does not make a serological test more than 180 days inadequate, because it does not allow you to see clearly when the infection has taken place. And why choose those 180 days? Because for now the assumption is that if you've had corona and you don't get stuck on top of it again, then at some point the immunity can decrease. That means you're less protected. So to everyone who's been through the infection, we say, "Get that booster shot, you're completely vaccinated." Period. That's how fast it can be. Then we'll go to the other travel questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u250	There is a question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u251	The Minister indicated that he will answer other travel questions. I think that's what my question is about, so I'm just gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u252	When will it be clear which country will do what? I say to Mrs De Vries that with this Council Recommendation 2020-1475 we have tried to achieve greater unity within Europe. But all countries really attach themselves to their own choices. We explain this Council recommendation very broadly, for example those 14 days we do not use. Other countries say they want to handle those 14 days. It's hard to get any further unity in that. However, I expect the whole of Europe to turn green in the coming period. The Netherlands, too, of course, is moving in the green direction and at that moment there are no more obligations around the DCC at all. In fact, it's just the most important thing that we say to everyone to look at zoekopreis.nl, because there are just the travel rules per country. And they're gonna change over the next few weeks. Do we have that delta variant sealed enough on entry? That was a question from Mr Paternotte, but other groups also asked that question. For travellers from outside Europe, from very high-risk areas, I have to say, the EU entry ban applies. The EU entry ban has not changed in recent times. That is what we are still using, with a number of exceptions. In a previous discussion, the question was whether the flight ban actually added value to the EU entry ban. This added value is only available for a number of categories of exception. The differences aren't that big. That EU entry ban is actually intended to stop people. On top of that, we have the testing obligation and the quarantine obligation for people from very high-risk areas, which applies to stop the virus. That's important. The test obligation can work so strictly that it also stops people, the quarantine obligation ensures that people sit on the couch with their ass, expressing the virus, if it had already come in. And it is not easy to bring in the virus, because people from very high-risk areas are subject to double testing requirements. That's a pretty tight system, isn't it? We need to be sober, too. This type of travel restrictions helps something, but is not going to keep us from that fourth wave. I think we should be sober about that. We are not an island, we are not Australia and we are not Taiwan. This means that we really have a different way of taking our measures. I think we are doing a lot to ensure that the measures we are taking are implemented as well as possible. A number of questions have also been asked about maintaining the quarantine obligation. They're working very hard on that. There's a lot of people getting calls from the call team. And indeed, the first fines have been issued. I believe that we are now at 22 fines, but we do not have a real-time overview of this. But enforcement works and is organized. There's a 100% check on the side of boarding, getting on the plane. Then the quarantine statements are taken and the call team is gonna call back there. And then enforcement. That's good. It's getting better. It's also getting more and more impressive numbers. We are also increasing this because the UK has added to it as a very high-risk area. The number of calls the call team should be able to make a day has been increased to 500. It'll start tomorrow. I also think it is important to do so, because there has to be a real chance of getting caught. And there is, that is my firm conviction. Of course, none of the odds are 100%, but this is a real opportunity. Mrs Gündoğan asked about information and whether there were standards between EU countries regarding the requirements for tourists. That standard is actually the Council recommendation as we agreed. But health ministers have a certain stubbornness about themselves and so sometimes different choices are made. We do that ourselves, for example, when it comes to those 14 days. It's prescribed that you have to hold on to those 14 days. We do not do that and we do not do that for tourists. Then a question has been asked about the colour codes by Mrs Westerveld: how likely is it that Dutch people do not enter other countries because the Netherlands colors quite red on the map? Luckily, that's the right way to go. From today on, the Netherlands is orange and Fryslân and Groningen are even green. I hope we go all the way to green for the next few weeks. That is also the time when there are no more travel restrictions for Dutch people at all. By the way, there are no travel restrictions for green and yellow at all. So we are not asking for a DCC from yellow countries. But for that, too, other countries do. They do not comply with the scope that exists within the Council's recommendation. Then Kos and the color codes. There is an increased risk if there is an incidence between 200 per 100,000 and 500 per 100,000 over the past 14 days. What we were trying to prevent is that a yo-yo policy would emerge. So we just followed RIVM's advice here. Because that's how it works: ECDC is the basis, RIVM makes an opinion based on ECDC and we follow RIVM. That is actually the most rationalised approach. What about Hungary? You seem to want to go to football. Hungary has announced some rather strict measures, but they were not at all in line with the Council recommendation we agreed on. We can do that, because that is the right that countries have. We can't force them to do that. So always look at Hollandwereldwijd.nl or on zoekopreis.nl to see the travel rules per country. I really assume that if Europe colours green and the level of contamination is low everywhere, there will be no more travel restrictions within Europe at all, and if countries are still yellow or orange according to ECDC colours, the DCC will apply. Anyway, we're increasingly getting vaccinated and people can just use it. What about Morocco and Turkey? The Netherlands uses the list of safe countries in Council Recommendation 912 for third country entry. Morocco and Turkey are not yet considered a safe country. This means that there is still a ban on entry for both countries. Of course, the DCC offers opportunities to make agreements with third countries as well. In the beginning, the Commission is already having that conversation with the US. What we hope is that that conversation can also be held with other countries. I actually hope that the DCC will become the standard worldwide. This seems necessary for international travel and international air traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u253	This issue is important to my group. Two weeks ago, I asked this Minister a number of questions about this. Then his answer, in which I also went along with him, was: first the DCC within the European Union and later what we can do about it. Fate wants the summer vacation to start in a few weeks. Many people with a migration background want to go to popular holiday countries like Morocco and Turkey, partly because they have not been able to see their family, friends and acquaintances for a year and a half. My question to the Minister is whether there is a view on the DCC and on agreements with those third countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u254	No, not that, but I honestly think that Dutch people, given the degree of infection here, will be quite welcome there. If you come back after that, you'll be a traveling EU citizen. Then you always have an exception to the entry ban. That is not such a big problem for the Dutch who want to go to Turkey and Morocco. It could be, but I honestly do not know that a vaccination certificate is being asked for there. Well, at least that's what you've got, except they don't have the scan app there to read the QR code. Anyway, you have all kinds of other ways to prove you've been vaccinated. This also applies: take a look at Hollandwereldwijd.nl, then you know what's going on. However, we are looking at a European discussion on whether we can make exchange agreements similar to the DCC with third countries. I think it would be logical for Turkey and Morocco to be involved in this. I have not yet done so, but that is something that is being initiated from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u255	I think that is a good development. Thank you, Minister. The same problem applies to a number of countries within Europe. I therefore think it would be a good idea, together with your German, Belgian and French colleagues, for example, to try to take a number of steps to make this movement as easy as possible. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u256	I believe that Turks and Moroccans living in the Netherlands will not be affected by this. But I take very much to heart the Dutch worldwide.nl and the encouragement. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the block of varia again. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u257	Maybe it's okay if the minister finishes his varia cube first. Let's see if there's any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u258	Mrs Bikker asks me to list the evaluations that are being carried out. At the request of VWS, there is at least an evaluation by the Security Research Council. Given the scale of the crisis, it is conceivable that this evaluation will take place at different stages. It is, of course, up to the OVV to communicate about it themselves. Other examples of evaluations that have already been carried out include a report on IGJ testing and testing policies and an evaluation carried out by Berenschot of the internal VWS organisation in the crisis. I expect to be able to share the final report of that last evaluation with the Chamber after the summer. So there's more going on on part-examinations, but it's really up to the OVV to do the big evaluation study. If we have a report, of course we share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u259	I'll wait for the Minister to answer all the questions. Then we'll see if there's a single question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u260	Mr Paternotte and Mrs Van den Berg referred to the issue of ventilation. I can only underline what is said, namely that ventilation is incredibly important. In communication, we must also say that ventilation is incredibly important. I'll keep an eye on that. You say that this has not been discussed at all at the last press conference. It may well be that we do not do so consistently and consistently on all fronts. So I'm just going to make sure that we do, because I also think it's important that we do and that we promote the importance of ventilation properly. It has always been part of the policy, so why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u261	Mr. Paternotte, I'm gonna wait for the Minister to answer all the questions and see if there's a question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u262	Then the antivirals. Antibody treatments were quite long in the development of treatments against COVID-19, but now other antiviral medicines are also passing by. We are, of course, monitoring developments in the market very closely. We're talking to several manufacturers. Antivirals are still very much in development, but expectations are high. Especially for the part that has not been vaccinated, it is of course very important that we also have that stuff at our disposal, but they are still really in development. It is important that EEA provides an adequate assessment of safety and effectiveness. A joint European procurement procedure has been initiated for an antiviral agent that may be used in patients with early symptoms. The choice of final purchase depends, of course, on the results of the study. We rely on the advice of our medical experts. Mrs. Kuik, the Pandemic & Disaster Center has been launched. I thought it was Pandemic Preparedness Center. But anyway, it's a collaboration between Rotterdam and Delft. I'm going to visit there soon. It is really an initiative from both universities, in collaboration with the municipalities of Rotterdam and Delft. That's, I think, very special. I think we're just beginning to really learn lessons about what we all need to do to actually be ready to fight the next pandemic. Pandemic Preparedness Mrs De Vries also asked about it, so we are far from ready for the next pandemic, when it comes to listing what is needed for that. It is, of course, our job for the autumn to do so. Real choices are only made when there is a new cabinet, Mrs Van Esch said so too, but we can prepare those choices. Well, you can do the same missionary thing, 'cause why would you wait for that? Finally, Mrs Kuik's question on personal protective equipment. The scheme was applied during risk level 3 or higher, so seriously. We are now almost on level 1 and therefore no more packages are issued, but we do not know exactly what the virus will do after the summer. That is why I would like to say to you that I will see if we can extend the arrangement. I have just been given an answer to the question about the decision-making of the AMvB. The decision on the 1.5 metres will be taken on Friday 2 July in front of the Council of Ministers. The veil of the AMvB thus starts on July 2nd and that means that the last day of the veil is July 9th. After that, the draft is sent to the Council of State. In the last Kamerweek, therefore, the pending procedure for this AMvB can be used. The Council of State's opinion will be back on Monday 9 August. The further report will then be on the Council of Ministers on 13 August and the Council of Ministers on which we wish to decide on the 1.5 metres will therefore be the opinion of the Council of State on the draft AMM and the further report. On the 13th, we determine when the AMvB must enter by royal decree. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. So when can the Chamber interfere? That's the last week in the Chamber. The planning for the partial extension of the Twm. The Twm is renewed per KB. At the beginning of July an opinion was requested from the Advisory Section of the Council of State on the measures in force. At the end of July I expect the opinion of the Council of State and in August I expect to be able to send the draft extension decision to both Chambers in the framework of the veil. The extension decision is therefore placed before both chambers in the recess. That is also the reason why we have actually written in this letter how we would like to deal with it. We do that on the basis of the OMT advice. So you have read that we are discussing the need to maintain the measure for a while. The legislative power is also important. The First Chamber has said that whatever the Lower House is allowed to deal with an arrangement, we want to be able to do so, not because we will always use it, but because we also want decisive control. That was once an amendment by Mr Hijink, but that amendment did not reach a majority. Because it was such a strong opinion in the First Chamber, I thought I would have to give it to the First Chamber. We'll see how the House of Representatives handles that. Perhaps you'd like to judge that mildly? However, it is a very express wish of the First Chamber and I therefore assume that you will agree to that. We would like to bring that bill to you before the summer, so that this could also play a role in the extension. We want to send that bill to the House of Representatives next week. The treatment can therefore, if both Chambers so wish, take place before the summer, but that is really up to you. Now you know everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u263	I would like to give the Members who suggested that I should like to ask another question, the opportunity to ask a very short question. First of all, Mr Kwint, then Mrs Bikker, Mr Paternotte, Mrs De Vries, Mrs Van den Berg, and finally, Mrs Kuik. A quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u264	I am curious about the definition of the Minister of a "real chance of taking" because I do not think 19 or 20 is so much. Of course, I don't know how many have been tested. Furthermore, I'm just surprised at the role of the ANWB. How did the ANWB get involved in calling people who are in home quarantine? I mean, you call it when your tire's flat, but not if...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u265	The answer to the second question is very simple: that is just a helpdesk. The ANWB has a fantastic helpdesk and it works on behalf of VWS. So it's not the ANWB calling, it's VWS. That's pretty easy to fix. The numbers of incoming travellers are quite clear and these travellers are called in the first week. In the first week, when enforcement still had to settle a little bit, I believe that was achieved with 90% of everything that came in. The 100% chance is on the board. 90% have been called and, of course, this should be as high as possible. We can't call until we have the data, so all those carriers must also take those quarantine certificates properly. So it's still a bit of work in progress to settle that in a good way, but on the side of getting in an airplane, getting on board, and on the side of taking the statements we're close to that 100%. Then that call team will go over it. First of all, you have the selection of the security region of whether there were people who were rightly, or perhaps not, in that pile. You have to select a little bit in that. What goes on to that call team is just done. That became a lot for a while, to get that from very high risk areas at 100%, when the UK joined. That's why we've increased the size of the call team a little bit. That is why we can make 500 calls one day, and that should at least be enough for now. Finally, these are people from very high-risk areas. Then the majority is simply found in quarantine. Some of the people don't pick up. If that's what you do a few times, that's a reason to start maintaining. Subsequently, it appears that between 2% and 3% of all phone calls give reasons for enforcement. That is then passed on to the municipality and that is then maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u267	In short: yes, that is a real opportunity. And that fine is 300-so much euros. That's a real waste of money. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u268	We now know the whole logistics process, but I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u269	It's quite a job. I'm glad to be able to tell you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u270	Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u271	It can be seen that we sometimes have a good schoolmaster, somewhere very deep in his heart. That's a compliment. The Minister also outlined very quickly and very well what is going to come up with evaluations. The letter also mentions a lot of things, a lot of subjects. I would like to ask the Minister not to do so now, because the clock is ticking by..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I noticed in myself that I was thinking: how is this evaluated or how what is evaluated? I want to avoid asking all these questions about that, when it can just be written out quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u272	Yeah, I'm definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u273	I would also like to support Mrs Bikker in that, in terms of process, in terms of how we can do that with each other. I'd love to have that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u274	I understand that very well. You're right. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u275	Then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u276	Yeah, ventilation. The Minister says: it can sometimes happen that you mention it, but of course it remains important. What I see too often too often is that we have also talked about this evening 60 times about the 1.5 meters that a lot of people think: if I keep only 1.5 meters away, not that much can actually happen. In Germany there are windows open, fenster öffnen, in the basic pictures they always show. In Belgium, the government has now established that catering and fitness centres must have a visible CO meter, so that you can really see if you are not walking through an aerosol paradise. They are in themselves very clear measures, communication. Then I think: can't we do something more? For example, if we have all these restaurants open this summer, there can be quite a lot of people inside. Is the Minister prepared to talk to Koninklijke Horeca Nederland to see how you can ensure that you bring that healthy air and CO concentration to the attention of the public?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u277	I'd like to do that. I don't think you should include him in the basic measures. These basic measures should always provide an individual perspective for action for people. For a part of the ventilation, you just depend on what your office arranges for you or what the restaurant arranges for you at the moment you enter, or the school where you are. Of course we help schools and health care institutions, because we also have a government responsibility there. But I'd like to, and maybe a little bit wider than just the catering industry, see how we can bring that ventilation, the need for it, to the attention of the public. I'd be happy to. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u278	Thank you. Then Mrs Van de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u279	De Vries, not Van de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u280	De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One more question about the quarantine obligation, because it's not quite clear to me. Is 100% of the people who come from very high risk areas called? The Nieuwsuur broadcast really gave the impression that a sample was taking place and that people weren't even asked if they were home by the ANWB team.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u282	I can't place that. I didn't see that broadcast, by the way. Yeah, 100%, yeah. That didn't quite work out when the UK was turned on. Then a little more space, a little more capacity, had to be added, also to the call team. That's done now, so from tomorrow it's 500 bells a day. I understood by the way that the image was also a bit: it may be that you don't run into the light when you are in violation. Of course, that's with every law and every rule we make like that. Enforcement can never be 100%. I don't think you should want it to be a bad police state either, but the chance of getting caught must be real. At least it must be so real that you think: it might be better if I just stick to the measures. Nor is it a question of issuing as many fines as possible; that is not our intention at all. But it is our intention that the quarantine obligation should be better respected. And my impression is it's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u283	Mrs. Van der Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u284	De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u285	De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u286	It's late, I understand. I understand very well that of the people arriving in Schiphol or another airport in the Netherlands from a very high risk area, 100% will be called. I'd appreciate it if we'd be kept informed of the numbers. I hear they're talking about 500 people a day now. Then I'm thinking, maybe they're like two planes. I don't know what that's like with the numbers of people landing at Schiphol. But can we at least get some kind of monitoring? So many people are coming from very high-risk areas, so many have been called, so many have received a ticket and so many do comply with that quarantine obligation. I think there are a lot of people who do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u287	I'm just gonna make sure you can follow those numbers a little bit. So in the next progress letter, I'll add the numbers on the maintenance of quarantine duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u288	Fine. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u289	I'd like to come back to the ventilation. At the end of March, a motion from me was adopted asking to look at technological innovations in this area as well. We hear about that from the market. Now schools are actually obliged to remodel the whole building. That takes a much bigger procedure than putting a few devices in a school. The latter may also be for a much lower price than a renovation. The CDA also asked several parliamentary questions on this matter in May. The Minister now says: I would now like to pay more attention to this in communication. Then I wonder: what about the execution of the motion? When will we get an answer to that? How were the parliamentary questions answered? And how is this taken, to prepare the schools well on the new school year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u290	I honestly didn't get that ready, but I'm just gonna promise you that I'm gonna take a look at that. I will write to you in a further progress letter about the state of play and how we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u291	Then I am very curious when the next progress letter will be with us. Because if that's somewhere late in August, I think it's richly late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u292	No. There are other updates to do. I'd like to send one more progress letter before the summer break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u293	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u294	I am glad that the Minister would like to look again at the regulation on foot-nose masks via the pharmacy. I am only faced with a practical problem, namely that this arrangement expires on 1 July. So I can file a motion that will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I'll be able to rescind that motion when this is settled. But I need to know what's gonna happen in advance. The vote is on Tuesday. Is that possible? I'm not saying this to complain, but this is the only practical way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u295	You ask me if I can tell you before Tuesday what the outcome is and whether I can extend the arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u296	Yes. Then I'll still file a motion, which will allow me to enforce it. But then I'll rescind that motion when it's settled. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u297	Fine. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u298	Thank you. Then I want the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u299	I have one more question to answer from Mrs Van der Plas. She raised a very pressing point about young people with whom things are not going well. I think we all recognize that. Some of the young people have not been affected at all in the past year, but some of the young people have. And some of the young people have suffered so much that there have been many psychological problems. What do we do to help these kids? We made the Welfare Youth Support Package. Almost 100 million is available for mental support for municipalities. For young people with heavier psychological complaints, agreements were made on 22 April between the VNG and the Empire, which resulted in an additional 50 million being released specifically for the acute youth-ggz problem. This can also temporarily scale up care capacity. In addition, 255 million have been made available to reduce waiting lists in specialist youth care. Of course, this does not help all young people immediately, and it is not always a question of money or more care. But at least this is what you can do. And that's why we're happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u300	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. She hasn't interrupted yet. After that, I'm really gonna go to the Minister of Medical Care. The Court also has a second time limit in which a question may be asked. If I don't do this, we're gonna run out of time. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u301	Thank you. I thank the Minister for the answer. I would also like to ask you something that does not cost any money at all. On the social media, but also in everyday traffic, I notice that it is often said that young people are acting up. You hear people say: in the war it was all much worse. Or they say, "young people are snowflakes." This minister and the other minister, of course, also have an exemplary role and a public role. So my request is simply to indicate in your statements, for example on television once, that it is not and that the problem is really serious. I told you, this doesn't cost money. But I think it's good to bring this forward, because many people don't realize this. I also hear in my surroundings that there are young people who are indeed depressed, but who are actually afraid to talk about it, precisely because they are then considered to be the author. Actually, I think that's even more dangerous. So these young people aren't getting any help at all, because they're not going to report it. They keep it in a very small circle. Well, that was my last plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u302	I will look at the form in which I could do that, but I would like to take it to heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u303	I see two more people who I believe are promising to ask a very short question. After that, however, we will go to the Minister for Medical Care. Mrs Westerveld and then Mr Van Haga for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u304	I asked another question about ventilation in schools. It hasn't been answered by the Minister and that's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u305	Would it be okay if I returned to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u306	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u307	I only have 40 seconds in the second term, and I really can't ask another question in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u308	I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u309	I asked why covid is still on "A" list. I'd like to hear why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u310	Well, because covid is an A disease. It is important to see it as such, because it is a disease that is extremely disruptive in health care and in our society. We've all seen that. This requires serious intervention and that serious intervention must also be possible on the basis of an adequate legal basis, which is why there is covid as A disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u311	Thank you. I would like to thank the VWS Minister for his comprehensive reply. We're gonna clean up for a while, and then I'm gonna give the Minister of Medical Care the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u312	I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u313	Mr. Chairman. We're all happy. I also heard it in the contributions of the Chamber. Glad things are getting better, the number of people with covid in the hospitals is falling rapidly. A while ago, Ernst Kuipers told me that he would switch to a weekly report of the number of people in hospitals. Then, in view of the current developments, I could say: please don't keep texting every day, because this is a really nice moment after all the times we've known. We still do, and he just told me that one person was admitted to the ICU today. Of course, that's awful for that one person, but if you compare it to where we come from, it's good news anyway. It's good news for patients with corona, it's good news for the people who work in care and it's also good news for the people who need regular care. With my sports cap on I say: it is of course also very good for all those athletes and supporters and also for the volunteers Mrs Bikker asked attention to. But immediately behind that joy, of course, there are other questions that must also be answered. And then I'm talking about the organisation of catch-up care, the recovery of the people who work in care, the preparations for the what if scenarios when things go wrong again. I have already informed your Chamber about several aspects, but I will also be happy to answer the questions that have been asked about them today. Questions about catching up have been asked by Mrs De Vries. Mrs. Kuik asked if we weren't too optimistic. Mr Wilders asked for clarity. And then, of course, it's the passage in the letter on catching up, about trying to make it by the end of 2021, beginning of 2022. That is also clearly my aim. In recent weeks, hospitals have drawn up their own plans for catching up in their institution. NZa, together with the field parties, has made a plan to achieve this. At the moment, the health insurance companies are working to complement and strengthen these plans together with the hospitals, so that we can understand the total estimated size of the catching-up care and the possibility of achieving that this year. In mid-July I get a feedback on this, so I can give more insight into it by what the health insurance companies and the NZa let me know, and then I can inform the Chamber about it. I therefore know in greater detail the extent to which this objective can be achieved. We can only do this together, because there are many parties involved, not only the healthcare institutions, not only in curative care, but also outside, the patients, the insurers, the professionals and the supervisors. It is about hospitals that make appointments with independent clinics, about coordination with the general practitioners, coordination with the community care and rehabilitation clinics. That cooperation is really carefree and I am very excited about that. It really is the whole chain, building on the cooperation that was so important during the crisis. We don't wait to catch up with the care until the plans are complete. Fortunately, the acute care has always continued. Wherever it is possible, that concern is already being overtaken. The critically planned care that is the care to be given within six weeks takes place almost everywhere again. Mr Wilders asks when patients can be clear. As I have just said, in mid-July, I can expect to give the Chamber more insight into how much care is to be taken and how that is to be done. I will inform the Chamber accordingly. We have agreed with healthcare providers that they will actively inform their own patients about the waiting times for the treatments. If a patient wants that faster, he can contact the health insurance company to discuss the options. We've asked the Patient Federation how patients are in it. A lot of people think it's okay and some people want to be with their own healthcare provider, but it's ultimately the patient's choice to decide if he wants to be helped faster or with his own doctor somewhere else. Mrs Van den Berg will take a look at September and the future approach to corona care. Can't we do something with that concentration? In the letter sent to your Chamber in September, I will reflect on the past period, but also on what the lessons we have learned mean for the roadmap and for the Corona approach. As far as I am concerned, that is something other than the question of whether we are prepared if the scenario of a fourth wave were to occur in the autumn. You have just heard extensively from the Minister of the United States of America how we are trying to prevent this from happening, through vaccination and through all the tools in the toolbox when it comes to source and contact research. Even if that would not work, we still have the scaling-up plans of the ic's, because they have not stopped. In reply to Mrs van der Plas, I will explain exactly what is going on with the ic's. The ic's can be scaled up again. That rally plan is still alive. The National Coordination Centre for Patients Spreading also remains responsible, even at this time, for the proportional spread of covid patients across the regions. The balancing framework created by the medical specialists on regular care also remains in place. Of course we still have the plan for phase three, but fortunately we did not have to take that off the shelf last spring and I also hope very much that it will remain on that shelf. The most important thing, of course, is to avoid all this, and hence the importance of these basic rules. You have just had an extensive exchange of views with the Minister of the United States of America. A specific question has been asked about concentration of corona care. At the intercession of the medical professions, which has found its place in the temporary policy framework, we have agreed to spread covid patients as evenly as possible across hospitals. This way you divide the pressure on the care and also secure access to the acute and critical scheduled care. That meant that corona care was not concentrated in a number of hospitals. The concern has an important voice in this. So this is also really from the LNAZ itself. On the other hand, it does require healthcare providers, hospitals in their own region to map and distribute care well across the axis of acute care and the National Coordination Centre for Patients. If the pressure on care were to increase again in the autumn, the ic-up plan would apply and then the rules created by the LNAZ would apply. Of course we will check again whether that is right, because so far we have seen that each wave has its own characteristics. Mrs Pouw-Verweij is actually looking a little further. She says: can we already analyse what can be improved? That is a subject that was raised yesterday in the debate on responsibility. Mrs Agema also made a number of comments. I think that Mrs Pouw-Verweij, and yesterday in the debate on responsibility, also Mrs Agema, are right: we need to look at how we improve our healthcare landscape further. Together, we need to focus on more robustness and more flexibility where necessary. We've said that before in this Chamber. As far as I am concerned, this applies both in the care and in the cure. The way in which we have worked together over the past year and the way in which we have worked together on these plans will have to give us a place in the future of care. As far as I am concerned, the decision on this is a new cabinet, but we are making sure that we get to work on the building blocks. For example, I am also looking at the plans for catching up: how do you maintain care coordination, how do you continue to share the data, how do you ensure that there is cooperation on the acute care axis in the region and how do you ensure that the different guidelines available and the capacity available are flexible and available? We don't do that from behind the drawing board. We really do that with the care professionals in the field. I'd like to work with them on this. Mrs van der Plas also referred in her contribution to the workload in health care. The point she raises is very important. She asked about the ic-beds. She said: that number will be reduced. The scale of the number of ic-beds takes place at the intercession of the LNAZ. It can scale it down again. The scaling up actually meant that people from other places in the care, in the hospital, were put on the ice. So scaling doesn't mean we're saying those people aren't needed anymore. It means that those people can go back to the department where they were working and that they can get started with regular care and catching up care. That's, I think, very good to see. In the unexpected scenario, of course, we can scale up again, because the ic-up plan and its financing are still in force. Well, those delays must of course be overtaken. That's what the plans are for. In reply to Mrs Kuik, Mrs De Vries and the Wilders, I referred to this. But I realize very well, and I am very pleased that Mrs Van der Plas also made that point, that if, after providing regular care, you have to catch up with all that delayed care, that a very big change is taking place on the people who provide that care: the medical specialists, the nurses; but not only in the hospitals, really wide in that chain. So we are talking about the need for the recovery of the people in the care sector. I have been in contact with the Presidents of the United Nations and the FMS over the last week, who have also done research in their own constituency at the request of VWS, because we also say here: they know best what they need. And they also indicated that there are a lot of uncertainties. After a long period of great pressure it is enough for some people to take a big holiday, and then get back to work. But other people find out just after such a vacation how intrinsically tired they really are. A lot of people have also indicated: maybe we want to find another profession, because we don't know if we can do this again. Other people say: we also see a piece of emancipation from our profession; we also see that very beautiful things have happened. Well, all those things have come up in that investigation, and we have said with the FMS and with the V&VN that we can do some things with the sectors and that we have to do some things like VWS. It has not been discussed this time, but when I look at Mr Kwint, I always see the SER report, so that is also such an important item that is always involved. But I think it is important that it comes from the sector itself. And as far as I am concerned, and I am also committed to saying this here, are the catch-up plan for the care and recovery of the people in care, the two pillars on which the whole plan is based; one cannot go without the other. And it shouldn't be set against each other either. Because we can't help patients if the caregivers haven't recovered, but there's no caregiver who's gonna recover quietly if he knows that a lot of patients still need a lot of care. So they're clearly connected. Mrs Van der Plas, as well as Mrs Van Esch, asked about long covid: the long-term effects of covid, which a group of people has to deal with. Let me point out, as I did earlier in the letter and also in these debates, that we have a great deal of attention to this, and have also taken a number of actions, including the Marijnissen motion adopted by the Chamber. The conditional admission of paramedical recovery care has been extended by one year. I think it is very important for people to know that there are more opportunities for this, and that the people who have had COVID-19 in the second and third wave can also take advantage of this concern. A number of changes have been made to the scheme. I also followed the advice of the Healthcare Institute. The maximum period between the acute disease phase and the reference shall be extended to four to six months. In the debate, Mrs Marijnissen indicated that there are a lot of people who are just out of the boat. The general practitioner may also refer for a second treatment period from 1 July. And if you are not eligible for paramedical recovery care, you can make use of the regular claims. But honesty commands us to say, which is also unknown to many, given the short term that we are dealing with here, that there is also scientific research on the effectiveness of paramedical recovery care. A multidisciplinary directive on aftercare is also being developed. This includes ZonMw, together with the Federation of Medical Specialists and also the Long Alliance Netherlands. We're also doing research through ZonMw into what that actually is, that lung covid, and what you can do with it. And I refer, indeed, to C support, which supports people in the area of, for example, health, but also work and income. Mr Kwint asked about his own risk. He asked if that would be frozen for next year, if I understood his question correctly, or what's going on with that. In any case, the previous government agreement agreed to freeze its own risk at €350 per insured person per year. The level of one's own risk will be announced with Princess Day. Of course, it is very dependent on how things are going, but the cabinet is currently working on budget preparation for 2022. So that moment comes with Prince's Day. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Kuik's question. She started talking about the summer of love and ended with a question about STDs. The 1.5 meter also helps against STDs, says the minister of VWS. But it's a serious point, so I'd be happy to answer her, of course. Last year, the GGDs were unable to provide optimal STD care. This was mainly due to the people's commitment to the corona crisis and to all the measures there were. The number of people who were able to be tested at the GGD in 2020 has decreased by 30% compared to 2019. Moreover, it is not yet fully known what the effect of the corona measures on the spread of STDs is. On the one hand, of course, you have fewer contacts and thus less spread. On the other hand, fewer people have been able to get tested. So that's still a little bit in the dark. But we do see that since autumn 2020 there has actually been a standardisation of STD care. In most regions it has been successful and they are on average back at 80% to 90% of the capacity for COVID-19, so almost back at normal level. In the context of the summer of love I would say: better prevention than cure. Mr. Chairman. The last question I have is from Mrs van der Plas and concerns the health bonus to be applied for between mid-June and the end of July. The counters are indeed open at DUS-I and the SVB. They close as scheduled on July 27th at 6:00 p.m. This means that there is six weeks for healthcare providers and pgb budget holders to submit that application. I would say that that is enough, especially since the scheme is very similar to last year's and so it is also a matter of doing the same thing once as before. The lead time of the window also has to do with the time needed to determine the amount of bonuses, but also with regard to the payment to the care professional. So I would advise the Chamber not to open it any longer, especially since of course the arrangement is very similar to last year's. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u314	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u315	Of course, it's about my question about long covid. I know and acknowledge that it is nice that a number of steps have been taken and that those steps are there. At the same time, we can see that there are still a lot of lung covid patients feeling unheard of and not recognised in the disease they are going to experience for a long time and perhaps for a long time. I would like to ask: is there any possibility of doing more at least from the Ministry to recognise that disease, perhaps also towards general practitioners and employers, and to support this group of people in their struggle, as they themselves clearly state, to receive the proper care they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u316	I have a lot of feeling about this question, because I'm just struggling with this too. I can say something for the fist now. I am going to see whether I can reply to this in the second term or whether I will indicate it in the letter before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u317	Thank you very much. I have another question that has to do with that. We see in other countries, for example, that registration systems are being set up that allow people to register nationally at the time they indicate that they have long covid. I feel that we are still missing that in the Netherlands. We don't know how many people we're talking about right now. In my opinion, that is a lack at the moment. I wonder if there are any possibilities to set up such a registration from the Ministry, so that we can get a better idea of the size of this group in addition to the scientific research that is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u318	I will include them in my second-term reply, or in the letter. I'll let Mrs. Van Esch know in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u319	I'd like to come back to the health bonus. The sector indicates that it does take a lot of time, also because this healthcare bonus is really aimed at seeing who delivered the special performance, unlike before, when it could be applied for generously. This just takes a lot of man hours and part of that application also falls into the summer vacation. My request to the Minister is really to see if she will consider extending that time until 27 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u320	The previous scheme also focused on special benefits. The government cannot select that, so we have asked employers to do so. But it is true that a great deal has been requested at that time. The ceiling on the scheme now depends on the amount of the bonus applied for. Again, we have asked to look at the special achievements. My advice to the Chamber would be: leave it at that, because 15 June is far from being in the summer. We have done a hand-out, and through the sectors all organisations have been informed. It is also very similar to the previous application procedure. So my advice at the bottom of the line would be: stick to it. Why? Not to bully companies or anything, but because it guarantees that the money will be on the people's account in the shortest possible time. But again, this is my advice to the Chamber and that is why I have designed it so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u321	I think it's not about getting the money quickly, it's about getting everyone the bonus they deserve. If organisations indicate that they really need more time, I honestly do not see why they do not listen to it. Nor do I see what it matters to allow it to last another two weeks or a month longer. In the end, it's about the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u322	I also recognise this discussion from the previous bonus, because that was when we had it. That's when it was finally extended, that's right. But the procedure followed at that time has now been followed and is therefore known to employers. Once again, Mrs van der Plas makes a number of arguments, which I say: I do not recognize the signals from the discussions we have had with the employers' organizations, which also set this out in their constituency. That does not alter the fact that there are individual organisations that can send such a signal. I do see a relationship between the opening of the window and the payment of the bonus. I'd keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u323	But what's wrong with extending that arrangement anyway? What happens if we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u324	If you extend it because of the holiday, you should open the scheme longer than the holiday takes. Then logic would require it to run until September. Then it has to be worked out and then the payout takes place at a much later time than could be possible. Everything can of course be arranged, but with that you lose the link with the period for which the bonus is for. I always consider myself to be of service to the Chamber and I would like to do what I can, but in this particular case I would say: enforce what lies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u325	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Medical Care for her answer. We now move on to the second term of the Chamber. The MPs have 1 minute 20 seconds. I ask the Members of Parliament to stick to the time and not to make any more motions than time allows. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a few short points. In the first term I had forgotten to ask about the commitment about Dutch people abroad. That was addressed in the letter. Very good. I hope we will also be reported on the follow-up. We are getting signals that in Thailand, for example, the Thai people are ahead and the Dutch who sit there are not eligible for vaccines. Other countries do it through the embassy. Then the 12-to 17-year-olds. I'd like to give people the choice. For me now, the advice of the Health Council is important. Is everything ready and are there vaccines at the time? I hope that we will soon get the whole of the Netherlands green. Friesland and Groningen already are, and I hope that good example will be followed. I am glad that regional measures can be taken again. I think that's gonna help. The Minister has indicated that he will also make bilateral arrangements for travel. He was pretty tough about that and said: I'm also going to make some bilateral agreements with other countries. And on interoperability, I would say: make haste. Finally. The core team and the OMT keep coming together. We think that is a good thing: just stay alert and go through it when it is necessary. That's it for me. A number of colleagues will be tabling motions, including a few on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u327	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall then give the floor to Mr Patternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u328	I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the WHO, ECDC and OMT stress the importance of good ventilation;]] [[Whereas the group size in indoor spaces is no longer limited;]] [[noting that "regular windows open', in addition to the three basic measures, forms part of public communications in, inter alia, Germany;]] [[calls on the government from now on to actively highlight the importance of ventilation against virus spread, as is done by our neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recently holidaymakers with the delta variant of the coronavirus returned from places of origin exempted from testing;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for holidaymakers to be able to test themselves upon arrival;]] [[invites the government to offer a test at the terminal at Schiphol Airport this summer and, if possible, other nodes at low threshold,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1300]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1301]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u329	By "in the terminal," we actually mean you can get there in high heels. It's not legal to walk to P4, so we have to be careful not to get people wrong. And of course it is also a long drive by bus. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that millions of Dutch people are going on holiday abroad through airports and other hubs this summer;]] [[Whereas not all Dutch people will be vaccinated voluntarily when they go on holiday;]] [[calls on the government to offer a vaccination facility at Schiphol Airport this summer and, if possible, other travel nodes where people can go for corona vaccination without an appointment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Kuik and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u330	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the rulers for their answers. I maintain that, given the current situation, it is truly unprecedented. It seems like we are talking about a parallel world, when we are talking about what remains to be preserved, or what still needs to be done if things are to go wrong. All signals are green and there is no reason to take any further action. The most important thing is the one-and-a-half-meter measure. We've got to get rid of him. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the one-and-a-half meter rule,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u331	The second motion concerns the voluntary vaccination of children. We shouldn't do that. Associations of doctors and organisations for children are against this. I won't repeat the whole discussion, but we really shouldn't do this, at least not by inviting the children all into some kind of program. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to actively invite children to the voluntary vaccination against corona,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u332	Finally, a motion on the schools. As far as we are concerned, this measure will also have to disappear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of infectious diseases and the risk of contagion with corona is falling very rapidly, including in schools, and that it should therefore be sufficient that those who are ill stay at home;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the obligation to speak in secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answers. It is good to hear that the core team simply continues unabated during the summer and that there will also be regular communication, including about asking for attention to behavior. It is also good to hear that we are getting an update on the ventilation file. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that locations where tests are offered for access are not always and everywhere optimally accessible, for example because they can only be easily reached by car;]] [[Whereas mobile access testing sites could be used to effectively reach out to people for access testing when access testing is used in the transition phase;]] [[invites the government to consult with Stichting Open Nederland and the event and nightlife sector on promising possibilities for organising access tests as accessible as possible for the transition period, including the possibility of mobile access testing sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Paternotte, Mr Bikker and Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1306]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u334	Thank you. I think everyone here knows what the SP thinks of its own risk. We think that a retarded fine on sick should go. We need to get it to zero. Our struggle for this goes on, of course. Our fight for the National Health Fund continues. But today, at least, we want to avoid that, partly because of high costs of care and an epidemic, the risk of one's own being increased. That is why we have the next proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Health Insurance Act currently provides that the mandatory own risk increases with the increase in healthcare costs as of 1 January 2022;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a legislative proposal to freeze the mandatory own risk for 2022 at €385,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Kwint, Keiken, Van den Berg, Agema, Van Esch, Westerveld, Aukje de Vries, Bikker, Van der Staaij, Pouw-Verweij, Van Haga, Van der Plas, Ephraim, Den Haan, Gündoğan, Kuzu, Paulusma and Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1307]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u335	I think I have bingo, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u336	I think so, too. Congratulations on that. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Sorry, Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA first. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u337	Mr President, I know I am very stupid, but some things I understand very well in life, so I'm sure Mrs Westerveld will be fine with that. Here I dare put a bottle of wine on it. But, Mr. Chairman, we're not gonna do that right now. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on 1 July, the Cabinet decided not to supply foot-nose masks via the pharmacy for caregivers, pgb-financed caregivers or pgb-caregivers free of charge through the pharmacy;]] [[Whereas it was not until early September that all adults and young people at high risk were fully vaccinated;]] [[whereas it is not until autumn that we will know how covid will develop in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the free provision of foot-nose masks for this group until at least 1 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1308]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u338	The second motion is tabled because I think it is historically important to record this, despite the fine undertaking. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas GGDs and GPs add the vaccine against covid to the yellow booklet;]] [[whereas several countries accept this booklet;]] [[whereas a large number of countries outside Europe, i.e. outside Italy, do not use QR codes;]] [[calls on the government to ask hospitals if they are also prepared to include the covid vaccine in the yellow booklet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1309]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u339	Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. I wish everyone a summer or a love, but safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had another question about the origin of the virus. I hope it can be answered later. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus spreads more rapidly in poorly ventilated spaces;]] [[Considering that the Asscher/Klaver motion was already adopted in August 2020, calling on the government to ensure that all schools' ventilation systems are monitored and improved where necessary;]] [[noting that this has not yet happened or is about to happen in all schools despite the subsidy scheme in place, and the government itself indicates that adequate ventilation in all school buildings cannot be achieved before this autumn;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a plan for the new school year to get the ventilation in all school buildings in order by autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1310]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u342	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the website selftestonderwijs.nl no longer accepts new applications for self-tests from 1 August;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has indicated its desire to encourage self-tests in education as far as possible;]] [[Whereas educational institutions are seriously concerned about the logistical challenge of issuing self-tests;]] [[invites the government to accept the application of self-testing via the website self-testonderwijs.nl until at least the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion, although I understand that it is difficult to let MBO and higher education know what scenario it will be. However, I think it is very important to let them know, even one day earlier, as soon as possible what scenario it will be. As far as we are concerned, they must be able to open as soon as possible without the 1.5 meters. That is why I think it is important to table this motion in this way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on 13 August the Cabinet took a decision on the release of 1.5 metres in secondary vocational education (MBO) and higher education (h.o.);]] [[whereas this is the mbo and h.o. presents a very difficult logistical challenge;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to give an earlier ruling on whether or not to release the 1.5 metres in the MBO and h.o.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u344	My second motion, I say to the Minister. I actually hope that the answer on long covid patients will come in second term. But because I do not have the option anymore, I will now file the motion; I can always withdraw or hold it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people suffer from long-term physical complaints due to COVID-19, also known as long covid;]] [[whereas, unlike other countries, the Netherlands does not register these patients centrally and no study has so far been carried out on how many people in the Netherlands are suffering from long covid;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a central registration point for lung covid patients and their caregivers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u345	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that variants of the COVID-19 virus may pose the risk of a new wave of infections;]] [[Whereas the number of infections is now low, there should be targeted efforts to prevent fireplaces;]] [[further considering that this could lead to a tightening of the strategy and that, for example, it could be directed at lower signal values;]] [[calls on the government to make clear what the strategy is and what the main objectives of the policy are now a new phase of lower contagion and to clarify the signal values that apply to it and to forward it to the Chamber before 1 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bikker and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1314]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u346	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the risk of new corona variants increases due to low vaccination rates in low income countries;]] [[Whereas the government has already expressed its wish to use the surplus of vaccines primarily for donation, but has not yet included this in vaccination planning;]] [[calls on the government to consult RIVM in the short term on which part of the surplus of vaccines must be kept as a reserve and, on this basis, to put forward a concrete proposal for a phased donation policy to COVAX, showing how many doses can be donated at what time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bikker and Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u347	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sports associations, food banks, museums and so many other fine initiatives exist by volunteers;]] [[Whereas Corona has given a blow to voluntary work and, in particular, to voluntary work through the employer;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage volunteering in this summer and in particular to bring it to the attention of employers' organisations, and to set a good example as a government;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Paternotte, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Kikken, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kwint, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Wilders, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1316]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u348	Time's running out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, by advancing the delta variant, there is a risk that corona fires will arise, particularly in areas where vaccination rates are insufficient, or in densely populated or widely visited areas;]] [[noting that a prior regional approach plan for the virus has been drawn up to prevent or minimise corona fires;]] [[calls on the Government to update the primary plan for regional approaches to the coronavirus, to clarify the contagion value for action, to clarify the approach and to prevent a fourth national wave, and to inform the Court of Justice of this by early September at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is one of the few countries where medical mouth caps are widely available to society;]] [[Whereas experts warn of a possible fourth wave after the summer;]] [[Whereas medical mouth caps offer many times better protection than non-medical mouth caps;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an inventory of the availability of medical mouth caps and the possibility of scaling up;]] [[calls on the government, like Germany, to make medical mouth caps widely available if a fourth wave threatens to occur,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Den Haan and Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1317]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1318]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u349	I have an announcement of a household nature. The motion I have just tabled on its own risk is also signed by Mrs Simons. That's right, as Mrs. Kuik suspected. Can the name of Mr Paternotte be replaced by the name of his colleague Paulusma?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u350	Look. On this one. Thank you for the announcement. Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank both ministers for their comprehensive answers. The VWS Minister and I are not going to agree on the use of mouth masks in public transport. Personally, I feel more about giving medical mouth masks, just to the extra vulnerable, rather than just mouth masks for everyone. Hence the support for Mr Gündoğan's motion. I also have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the lessons learned, it is possible to prevent the country from being partially shut down again in the event that developments around the coronavirus are unexpectedly unfavourable;]] [[Whereas the introduction of a new lockdown will cause enormous damage to society and the economy;]] [[Calls on the Government to discuss with the Chamber in September a strategy which will allow rapid and agile action to prevent an unexpected new outbreak of corona;]] [[calls on the Government to design medium- and long-term scenarios for a virus outbreak of which health care is at least part and to submit them to the Court in September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1319]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u352	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. For the people who are still following these debates and thinking 'what is happening with all these motions', I would just say that we had a letter of 112 sides prior to this debate. They discussed twenty motions and commitments and indicated what they all did with them. Sometimes we talk about this again and sometimes there are some questions. In my case, that is a point I want to make now in second term. Last time I tabled a motion with Mr Paternotte. That motion was adopted on which mat rules against covid in the endemic phase are still necessary and proportionate. That was addressed in the letter. The Minister said that I started talking about this. It says that this motion has been carried out, but I assume that it will go further and that we will be informed about it in September. From all sides, it keeps coming out that we are in the phase now that we hope that those big increases are over and that it will stick a bit at a similar level or lower. It won't go away, but how do we proceed now? What measures are being considered and what is really going to go away? I think it is very important that we can discuss this thoroughly in the autumn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u353	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u354	Mr. Chairman. In the context of special partnerships, a motion together with colleague Wilders............................................................................................................................................................................ I also believe that we agree that we do not understand the usefulness and need of a test society. I have two motions on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present only 3% of the test capacity for "access testing" is used;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport has reserved hundreds of additional millions of tests for further capacity expansion;]] [[considers that this is a waste of money;]] [[calls on the Government to cancel the reservation to increase test capacity and to invest the money in healthcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present only 3% of the test capacity for "access testing" is used;]] [[whereas empty test centres cost taxpayers no less than half a million euros a day;]] [[calls on the Government to offer "Tests for Access" voluntarily, free of charge and without obligation at Dutch airports with international flights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no evidence that a stay in Northern Cyprus presents a greater health risk than a stay in Southern Cyprus;]] [[Whereas the ECDC Cyprus map has one colour as opposed to the map on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;]] [[Whereas maintaining objective standards is important for the credibility of travel advice;]] [[calls on the Government to align the travel advice for Northern Cyprus with that of Southern Cyprus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1320]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1321]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1322]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u355	Can I just request an operative? I've got five seconds left, and I think I can do that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to commit to validating the Digital Corona Certificate for popular holiday destinations such as Turkey or Morocco in a European context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1323]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u356	Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like to table a motion on the non-mobile vulnerable home residents. I know that the Minister has indicated that he is going to look at the existing infrastructure, to use it. I also know that ActiZ has offered this before, but that in the end they chose Thuisvaccine.nl. The trade association of doctors' assistants has also offered it, but no use has been made of it. So I will make sure with my colleagues that the existing infrastructure is being used here. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many non mobile residents have not yet been vaccinated because Thuisvaccine.nl has a lack of capacity;]] [[Whereas these people are more at risk of a serious course if they become infected with the corona virus and it is therefore important that they be vaccinated as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas the general practitioners have been asked to help with the vaccination of the group;]] [[Whereas community nursing often comes home to these people and district nurses are competent to vaccinate;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to involve the district nurse, in addition to general practitioners, in the vaccination of the group of non-mobile residents as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Bikker, Mr Kuik, Mr Paternotte, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Esch and Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1324]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u358	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u359	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has opted for a variant of the healthcare bonus with a fixed amount reserved by VWS;]] [[noting that the net amount of healthcare providers receive as recognition for their exceptional effort depends on the number of applications;]] [[Whereas the implementation and application process of the healthcare bonus may request a time-intensive job and healthcare providers to apply for the bonus from 14 June 2021 to 27 July 2021, 18.00 hours;]] [[noting that this is short notice for healthcare providers, because institutions have to determine which employees have performed a special performance and this costs a lot of additional man-hours;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to extend the period of application for the healthcare bonus to 15 August 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Ephraim, Mr Den Haan, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Wilders and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1325]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u360	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u361	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u362	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the IFR of COVID-19 in children aged 0 to 19 years is only 0.00003%;]] [[calls on the Government not to vaccinate children up to 18 years old against COVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the validity of corona tests is now very short and the result is that people sometimes have to undergo very frequent testing;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the validity of these tests can be extended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the duty to protect the mouth will soon expire almost everywhere;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the obligation to protect the mouth is extended to the exception areas such as public transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1326]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1327]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1328]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u363	On the second, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u364	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u365	Mr Van Haga has just tabled a motion to ban the vaccination of minors. He said "children," but my cousin and cousin 15, 16 years old, they're not gonna call themselves a kid anymore. From 12 years of age, people can of course take part in all medical activities and medications.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u366	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u367	My question is why you want to ban it for them. Why do you want to deprive them of that freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u368	We never take away the freedom of choice, but there is now a certain approach whereby it is promoted to vaccinate children. It is our view that children are hardly at risk of any damage or symptoms with COOVID-19, and then you simply should not vaccinate them. I signed your motion at the time because it concerned very vulnerable exceptions. Then you must have the opportunity. In the end, everyone has that opportunity. But the basic attitude must be: children aged 12 to 19 are not going to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u369	With that basic attitude you would say: then you can still allow it. So if people wanted to do it themselves, would it be okay to do it as far as you're concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u370	Yeah, look, we live in a free country. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated must consult with an oncologist, with an immunologist, with a cardiologist. And of course, after that, you'll make your own decision. But the basic attitude must be: we are not going to vaccinate children from 12 to 19 years old. That's the call to the cabinet. 'Cause at the most, these kids get a snot nose out of this. And the whole idea of getting vaccinated for others is total bullshit. So please, let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u371	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. The directors have indicated that they need about 12 minutes. Well, then let it be exactly 10:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u372	I give the floor to the VWS Minister to answer a single question and to give his appreciation of a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u373	Sure. I'll start with the motions and I'll get to a few questions in a minute. I just don't know where I put it anymore. I think I left my notes downstairs. I know there are some officials listening in. They might still be in the room downstairs. Take my notes upstairs, I'd like to say through you to the official's lodge. Then I'll ask the remaining questions at the end and I'll start with the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 1300 on ventilation actively to the attention of the public. I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1301: Schiphol and testing. That's where the word "terminal" snuck in and that's what makes the assignment a little different. Mr Paternotte also referred to the possibility that you should also be able to walk in high heels towards that terminal, which I find curious, but everyone's thing in the summer. I'll let the Chamber know what we're all gonna do to test travelers anyway. Self-testing is the basis. That's one. Two. Free tests at the GGD for young people coming back is important anyway. Three. I also want to facilitate testing at Schiphol Airport. How are we gonna do that? I'd like some space to see how that's most practical to shape. I'm not gonna put a test street on every trunk, because we have a really big facility there. In short, I'm going to talk to the GGD about that. Don't tie me to that terminal for a while. I'll get back to you. If I can explain the motion with a little space, I'll leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u374	Let me take a look at Mr Paternotte: can he agree with the appreciation... In the appreciation, I think, but can he also agree with the interpretation of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u375	No, not every trunk. That seems extremely impractical to me. We're thinking more like a test street like it was there for a while last summer. It was country-side. People on a trip could go there for a while. Within that window of thought, we can definitely go with the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u376	That's all way too detailed for me. I really want room for how we're gonna do that... If I could arrange transport for those people who want it between the airport itself and P4, that parking deck, of course, that can be done. Such a test street at Schiphol Airport itself also gives traffic of a few hundred thousand men. It is very doubtful whether that is practical, whether Schiphol itself is waiting for it and whether it is of added value. So just give me a minute to talk to Schiphol and Kennemerland about that. Then I'll come back to how we can do that most wisely. If it's more detailed than that, then I'll just advise against the motion. Maybe that'll make it clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u377	Let me look at Mr Paternotte, because that is important for the vote later: is it the broad interpretation of the Minister or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u378	I have confidence in the consultation with Schiphol on this point. I did, of course, look at the way people look at it. If the Minister comes back soon, we can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u379	So you can agree with the Minister's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u380	Okay. Then let's get to work on that. Then the vaccination facility at Schiphol. I'm not going on this assignment. I did say that at this point I already have the conversation with the GGD about where it could all be practical. I also take this point into account in the conversation with Kennemerland. But I'm not saying there's going to be a vaccination facility at Schiphol. In the first term, I said that I do not fully see the added value of this. I therefore advise against this motion, but I do admit that I will also include this point in the discussion with the GGD Kennemerland. Then there is the motion by the PVV on abolishing the one-and-a-half meter rule. I'd advise against it. Then the motion to part No. 1304: Do not actively invite children. I advise against that motion by reference to the first term. The motion in part No. 1305: To remove masks in the box. I don't recommend that motion. The OMT has just advised us to hold on to that until the summer. After the summer, you can get it off. But hold it until summer, so I'm not gonna tell you. Then the motion to part No. 1306 of the CDA on mobile testing sites. I'll leave that to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1308 on the extension of the provision of masks via the pharmacy. That's what we agreed on the next choreography. You're filing this motion. I will make sure that, before the vote on Tuesday, I will let you know how I deal with this motion and whether I am indeed going to extend it. I'll let you know, I say in the direction of Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u381	What is the appreciation of the motion in part No. 1308?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u382	So that appreciation comes in writing. Before the vote, I'll make sure you appreciate it. Then I don't have to ask you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u383	It's in writing. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u384	Here's what I'm gonna do. I shall leave the motion until Tuesday's votes. If I get an affirmative answer, I'm gonna pull her in acutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u385	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u386	Fine. That is actually a very threatening sword of Damocles hanging over my head until Tuesday, Mr President. That's how you see it. Then the motion to part No. 1309 about the hospitals and the yellow book. We talked about that. We're not gonna repeat any of that. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I'll be careful!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u387	Yellow, lemon, sour: we're not going to do that! This is for the Labour Party. But I do like it if the Minister informs us about the outcome of the consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u388	Sure. I try to send one more progress letter before the summer holidays, in which all open ends are given to the Chamber. Those are about testing, Mr Paternotte's high heels, the yellow booklet, really about everything you've always wanted to know!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u389	Mr President, I believe that Mrs De Vries has something to say about this. Mrs Aukje de Vries was a co-signator of the motion. She's very attached to the fact that that test street can be reached in high heels. I think it's okay that the Minister should...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u390	It's a bit silly to get Mrs De Vries on board now!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u391	I want this image that the Minister has just summoned away from the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u392	That's it. Then the motion to part No. 1310 to for the new school year, for the fall, what was it? To have the ventilation in all school buildings in order. Of course, there's a ventilation plan. A lot of money has been spent. There is a rather exuberant arrangement that is almost exhausted. There's more money. In 2022, a further 260 million will be available to improve the indoor climate. So I'm going to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u393	There was also a question from Mrs Westerveld on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u394	I had indeed raised it in my first term, because the problem is not that there is no regulation or money. It's all there. The question is why it takes so long, because this is not a new subject. We've been talking about it for over a year. We know that ventilation plays a very important role. We all have unvaccinated children who often sit together in a classroom with lots of children at the same time. So if there's an arrangement and money, why is it taking so long? Hence this motion, because this simply needs to be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u395	A lot is being done, too. Minister Slob has set up the Scheme specific allowance ventilation in schools. At the beginning of this year, the first EUR 100 million was made available for ventilation improvement measures. That arrangement is almost exhausted. 600 applications have been approved. In schools, therefore, a lot of work is being done to further improve ventilation. They can also contact Space-OK for advice and support. A further 260 million will be available in 2022 for the improvement of the indoor climate. The Ministry is discussing its implementation with the schools, municipalities, BZK and Space-OK. So there's a lot going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u396	There's a lot going on, but schools still don't have ventilation. My point isn't that nothing happens either. We have had this discussion with Minister Slob on a regular basis. I am also a spokesperson for education, as are a number of other colleagues. Alone, it has to be arranged. So that's the problem. That is why this motion asks the cabinet to take it into its own hands. We now notice that schools and municipalities often point to each other, because there is co-financing. Again, my point is not that nothing happens. My point is that the ventilation in schools is not yet in order everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u397	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u398	Perhaps it would be good to continue the debate with Mr Slob on this. But the picture was for a moment that nothing about ventilation is happening. That's really wrong. There's a lot of ventilation going on. A lot of money has already been spent in addition. There is also additional money available for next year. There is also an ibo to educational accommodation. There will be a substantive reaction from the cabinet. So I think you can still debate this with Mr Slob to your heart's content. In any case, you can count on it being properly deployed, both from school boards themselves and from OCW. Then the motion to part No. 1311 on the system for applying for self-tests. In order to extend this arrangement until at least the end of this year, I am a little out of line. I'd like to see if it needs to be extended, but not until the end of this year. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1312 on the pre-litigation of education. I think we've talked about this extensively. I also advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1314 on the strategy and main objectives of the policy. I think that we have given a good start to this in the letter we have just discussed: '112 pages clean on the hook', but I would very much like to shape its further development in September. That's not before September 1, as it says here, but in September. Mr Van der Staaij also asked about this. Both are under the motion, Mrs Bikker and Mr Van der Staaij. I would very much like to do that, so I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u399	The motion says "before September 1st." So I'm gonna take a look at the proposers. Are they prepared to amend the motion and make it 'in September'? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u400	The Bikker/Van der Staaij motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that variants of the COVID-19 virus, such as the delta variant, may pose the risk of a new wave of infections;]] [[Whereas now that the number of infections is low, targeted efforts should be made to prevent fires;]] [[further considering that this could lead to a tightening of the direction and that, for example, it could be directed at lower signal values;]] [[calls on the government to make clear what the strategy is and what the main objectives of the policy are now a new phase of lower contagion, to clarify the signal values and to forward them to the Chamber in September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 1314 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u401	Fine. This gives a little more opportunity to discuss it with different parties. Then the motion to part No. 1315 on donating doses. I'd like to leave that judgment to the Chamber. We're already working on that. I will also let you know in a next progress letter and perhaps in the next progress letter. Then the motion to part No. 1316 on the promotion of volunteering. That motion has been signed so intimidatingly that I am going to leave it to the Chamber, and perhaps also because it is simply a good idea to do so. So I'm giving the motion judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 1317 by Volt, on updating the regional plan. That motion actually resembles the motion of Van der Staaij and Bikker. You could, of course, have put it together in the context of the summer of love, but let me simply give this motion a Chamber of Justice in the context of that same summer of love. In any case, we will take full advantage of the impact. In the motion of JA21 to part No. 1319 is about all kinds of different scenarios. I'm gonna do the work on those two motions. This is partly in line with what you are asking, but this motion is going to produce a great deal of extra work. We are simply assuming the most real scenario and will, of course, also be prepared for dreary scenarios. We both will, but I'm not going to recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u402	I have just heard the Minister say on another motion: if I may interpret that motion sister and so on. Is there any way the Minister can interpret the scenarios in my motion so that he can implement them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u403	Yeah, I could do that. I mentioned those key risk factors for the autumn. I have said that we are based on the most real scenario: a revival of the number of infections, but not such an extreme translation into hospitalisations. What we all have to do to build that dike in surveillance, testing and tracing, in vaccinating, in taking measures, we will develop further along the lines we have set out in this letter. In doing so, we will indeed take the most real scenario, but also be prepared, ready for a more bleak scenario. If I may explain the motion in such a way that this is an order to follow up, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u404	I would like to suggest that the text of the motion be amended, because it is very different from what is now written. Then perhaps you could contact VWS about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u405	Yes, it says now: scenarios in general form, but if we can actually make them: the real scenario and a worst case scenario, those two, that combination...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u406	And also ready for a sausage case scenario. Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u407	If you change it and then tune it in with VWS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u408	Then the motion to part No. 1320 to cancel the test capacity. No, we shouldn't. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1321 about free tests at the airport. So we're doing free tests for travelers, so I guess that's unnecessary. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1322 on Northern Cyprus equal to Southern Cyprus. I believe that the whole of Cyprus is now in the same colour, so I think this motion is superfluous, and I would therefore like to advise against it. Then the motion to part No. 1323, to declare that DCC also valid for Turkey or Morocco. We do not, of course, determine the health policy of Turkey and Morocco, so I must advise against this motion. I had already promised that, of course, we would like to discuss the validity of these DCCs with Turkey, Morocco and other holiday destinations outside Europe, preferably at European level and bilaterally. Then there is Mrs Den Haan's motion. in piece No. 1324. There, too, an intimidating list of signatories. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber, also because it is a wise idea to talk to the district nurse, to see how we can vaccinate those not mobile people at home. The motion in part No. 1326 about not vaccinating children, I advise against. We've talked about that extensively. The motion in part No. 1327 on extending the validity of the tests, I also advise against. We have discussed this in detail. Then the motion to part No. 1328 on mouth caps release in the vo. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. And then I still haven't gotten the answers to the questions that were asked. Well, I hope they're looking pretty wild in that civil servant's room, or they're out on the terrace, of course. You can do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u409	Maybe it's okay if I ask the Minister for Medical Care to do the appreciation of the motions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u410	That's a brilliant idea. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u411	I hope Mrs Westerveld agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u412	The Minister said about our motion on self-testing that he's going to figure out how to extend that arrangement. I might be able to hold the motion until we get the answer. But then it's good to know when that's about to happen, so the answer doesn't take a month. That'd be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u413	No, this really has to be done before the summer, because we need to know how to test it after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u414	Then I'll hold the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u415	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1311). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u416	Thank you. We're gonna clean up and then I'm gonna give the secretary of medical care the floor. It gives an appreciation of the motions on items Nos. 1307, 1313, 1318 and 1325.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u417	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the motion in part no. 1307 by Mr Kwint, his "bingo card," as he called it. Here too there is an impressive list of MPs who have signed it. I see the signature, but this is, of course, about something that is decided in the August decision-making process. I would therefore ask the authors to hold this motion, simply from the position I have and on behalf of the outgoing cabinet. But I also see the signature, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u418	I have such a hunch...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u419	No, the whole idea of the motion is that it will be included in those talks before August. So I think it would be very nice for the Minister to know whether she has been accepted or not. So I don't want to keep her in suspense anymore. I want to put her to the vote anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u420	I understand. Well, then I'm gonna have to discourage the motion, but I have a feeling the Chamber's gonna take her. Of course, I'll let the Chamber know how I handle it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 1313 by Mrs Van Esch. I will answer the question immediately on the basis of the appreciation of the motion. RIVM has recently started an investigation. We do not have central registrations of people who are ill in the Netherlands. It is not known to me, but I did check it out. But the RIVM has started an investigation. It asks people with a positive test result to report via the longcovid.rivm.nl website. The goal is to investigate over the longer term how many people have long-term complaints after infection. It also investigates what these complaints are and how long these complaints last. If I could read the motion in such a way that it would comply with that registration, I could give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u421	I see Mrs Van Esch nodding. So she agrees with your interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u422	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 1318 by Mrs Gündoğan, asking for large-scale medical mouth caps. This motion was also signed by Mrs Den Haan and Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I advise against this motion. For the application of mouth masks, we rely on the European directives. NEN standards have been drawn up for the general public. It is therefore not necessary to provide medical mouth caps for this purpose. Moreover, there is no prohibition on this either. Especially in the beginning, when there was a huge need for medical mouth masks in care, we asked to keep them for care. But by now there are enough on the shelf and they are also available via the regular channels. There is also no prohibition on the use of medical mouth masks. Furthermore, the LCH has a large emergency stock, in case a fourth wave would occur unexpectedly. But this motion I will advise against. The motion in part No. 1325 by Mrs Van der Plas and some of her colleagues I also advise against referring to the debate. That was him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u423	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the VWS Minister to answer one more question. Let's go clean up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u424	Mr. Chairman. A few more questions from Mrs De Vries. As far as those Dutch abroad are concerned, I will indeed feedback in one, and I also think the next progress letter, which could be even more. You said before: couldn't it go through the embassies? I know your wish on that point, and I will see what can be done about it. For those 12-to 17-year-olds we know that everything is ready after we've done the 18-plussers. And that bilateral commitment, that wasn't supposed to be tough. On the contrary, that is simply with the effort to come out in common. Only, of course, I also see that the Netherlands interprets this Council Recommendation 1425 somewhat more broadly than other Member States. I have already had a number of discussions on this with Spain and Italy, among other things, to see if they could do just as we do, namely to interpret this as we do. I can see that there is still some caution there. I do notice some goodwill, for example with my Italian colleague. In addition, I see that we are moving very fast towards green, including on that ECDC card. So this could well be a problem of a rather temporary nature. Then the SGP had one more question, about the transitional phase: how then? I think I have just explained how we can proceed with this in relation to the motions. Those were the remaining questions. I thought there were more of them, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u425	It is not that this minister has not answered a question from me. I forgot to ask the Minister for Medical Care if she can continue on that recognition I asked for for for lung covid patients. It's fine if it comes in a letter form. I think that's what we were talking about in the first place. I just can't see it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u426	The Minister had indeed said: in second term or in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u427	Then in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u428	It will return to this in the next progress letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u429	Okay, then I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u430	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-15.u431	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. I thank the directors, I thank the MPs and the viewers at home, and I close the meeting.
