ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the general affairs budget and the King's budget. We have arrived at the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u2	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. The biggest stone in the shoe is the B component, so I'd like to start with that. To put it straight: it would also have been better if I had asked for more explicit attention last year on the possible limitations in the implementation of that motion. When I advised on that motion, I was, frankly, more hopeful about the possibility of doing so generously. And I just came to the conclusion, the insight, that unfortunately it wasn't possible as I thought at the time. And with that, my advice on that motion was more generous than I could make in the response to that motion. And I realize that I may be doing Mr Sneller a knee-flap but I am not helping him at all, and that we are still disagreeing. But in the process, because he mentioned, among other things, the process, it's equal to his side. I'd like to have noticed that here. In substance, we have argued why, weighing everything on the hand, it is tasting on the tongue that we are now carrying out the motion as we are doing it. I can argue that again, but of course we did so in detail in the letter. If I sum it up domestically, the essence of it is, of course, that the performance of the royal office must be seen in accordance with the state and dignity attached to the high office. The fact is that carrier and ministry are so intertwined that there is actually no complete separation of personal expenses in the private sphere and the functional costs associated with the exercise of kingship. In other words, the king is King 24 hours a day, even if he is not strictly formal at work as King. In the end, that's the reason to do it this way. The Court of Auditors has rightly been asked for. I checked again, and the Court of Auditors said it would be their recommendation that the Royal House Service is part of a state service. At least, their recommendation leans on that thought; so I must put it. That is, of course, not the case in itself. And that also means that the control and transparency options that go with it are not appropriate either. As a result, the route through the General Court has not led to further options for the implementation of the motion. Then there was also the question: why wasn't that decision note sent along, because that's what's supposed to happen since 1 July? That's right. Of course, all departments, including AZ, will make important decisions accompanied by a decision note which goes to the executive at the time a letter is sent to the Chamber and a final proposal is made. That has not happened here for the simple reason that ministerial responsibility for the King stands in the way of providing that type of information. I know that I am going to annoy Mr Sneller even more by calling again on the Council of State. However, the Council of State has of course said something about giving access to policy-making. That, of course, affects the royal function. I quote an opinion from the 2000 Council of State. "The provision of information on the possible contribution of the King, the DKH or people around the King to ministerial policy views is contrary to the ministerial responsibility and contrary to the unity of the Crown." That is why it is not possible to send a decision note on this issue, other than the one rule you have had. Mr. Chairman. That is in response to the questions about the B component. Of course, a number of questions have also been asked about money, but perhaps we should do this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u5	The Prime Minister is getting it all together very quickly now. The recommendation of the Court of Auditors explicitly covered the B component. And the General Court, as an auditor of the legality of expenditure under the B component, of course knows very well what is going on within the Royal House Service, and what is covered by the B component. I would like to say that the General Court knows this better than anyone else. So then it's not the General Court route. The Court of Auditors does not have to investigate it itself. It could be, but of course it doesn't have to implement their recommendation. For example, I made a suggestion. In the Prime Minister's written reply, it is very bad: we are, as it were, asking to make everything public and all receipts. The information provided by the 2016 Council of State, to which the Prime Minister refers, also says something about the level of concrete expenditure. It's not about that at all. The motion states: is the level of the B component still appropriate to human and material expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u6	Once again, we have checked with the Court of Auditors on the basis of which they come to that recommendation. I just outlined that. That informal administrative contact has been with the Court of Auditors. The reason was the recommendation which led to the motion tabled during the previous General Affairs debate. Again, that conversation showed that their recommendation is based on the idea that the DKH would be part of the state service. This is not the case, which does not suit the normal options of control and transparency that go with it. Consequently, it did not offer the General Court any further option for the implementation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u7	I said in my first interruption that this does not have to be the solution to the recommendation. Isn't there another way to still look, see if the height of the B component is still appropriate and just repeat it every five years, as the motion asked? And that, again, does not have to be the General Court. It doesn't have to be the Chamber itself, but it has to be someone watching it. In the past, this expenditure has been looked at more often. As I have outlined in my contribution, the ADR and the Court of Auditors are looking at this expenditure. It's not like nothing's being checked. That is why I have also asked what the fundamental constitutional step is and what the difference is between legality tests and adequacy tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u8	This, of course, involves the whole budget since the early 1970s, and the revision after the Zalm Committee, resulting in the current Financial Statute for the Royal House Act, which has been adopted with a large majority in parliament. In the event of its implication, those amounts indexed over the years have also been taken over as real. In doing so, the A component increases with the salary of the Vice-President of the Council of State, now Thom de Graaf, and the B component also continues to grow with certain formulas underneath, as provided for in the WFSKH. I find it unwise, weighing everything very well and looking at it again and again, to look at it again and again, because, in my opinion, this will eventually be done with Articles 10 and 41 of the Constitution. In the end, they touch to an important extent on the privacy of the King, given the special office that a King has in our state system, and it is inevitable that this connection between public and private is very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u9	But of course, we knew that a year ago. I do not think this intertwinedness stands in the way of simply carrying out this motion. The Prime Minister says that he thinks it is unwise, but that is something other than that it cannot be done under state law or that the Constitution stands in the way of simply carrying out this motion. I mentioned here what Professor Bovend'Eert, Rehwinkel and others all argued, and what De Jong said in the 1960s, namely that it does not stand in the way of simply carrying out this motion. So I feel like there's something else behind it. Let me turn to that decision note, in the format we have agreed with the cabinet, there is a heading 'information falling under the interest of the State'. I've seen plenty of decision notes lately where that was in and where things were covered. It will still be possible to communicate with the Chamber what opinions have been sought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u10	No, I really can't because... I really can't. This procedure applies to all departments, including General Affairs. But if it is really about the King's budget or matters that directly affect the Crown's unity, then it really isn't going to work with such a decision note. That's really my conviction. That really affects the Crown's unity. I really do not agree with Mr Sneller. The other point is a difference of opinion. My view is that, with the establishment and revision of the King's system of our budget, and given Articles 10 and 41 of the Constitution, privacy is of great importance. Because of the intertwined nature of the various tasks and modalities in which the King operates, both in private and in business, the legislator has seen very good reasons for adding that B component. Last year, when the motion was tabled, I thought: there might be a sleeve to be adjusted; could I perhaps think of something to provide more transparency in that or perhaps not fully but more to accommodate Mr Sneller's motion? I'll repeat that to him. He mentioned three points. One of them was the trial. He's just right about that. I was too excited about that at the time. Everything again weighing, searching again and having another discussion about it, was finally my conclusion and I came to the conclusion that that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u11	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u12	Then the Prime Minister also agrees with me that the accountability to the Chamber is in any case highly unsatisfactory if no information can be shared as to what advice, what discussion, has taken place on this matter. For that is not the case for us at all, and it is not possible to understand the reason for this, except for the very general information given by the Council of State on this subject, which I believe is sufficient room for further consideration. The security services have a CTIVD and a CIVD of the Chamber, but with the King's budget, with this very reasonable recommendation from the Court of Auditors and with this rather broad-based motion, there is not even a start to transparency. I find that very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u13	This is, of course, how the legislator has looked at it. I made the point at the end of the General Reviews that we have a republic in the Netherlands where one family always supplies the president. But in that system in which one family always supplies the president, we call that domestic monarchy, there are always abrasive elements. I've said that before. If there is a noble family at the head of the State, which, of course, continues to comply with all the principles of the democratic rule of law, and wants to bring it together, there will always be shattering elements. One of these abrasive elements relates to the unity of the Crown, as has been regulated in the Constitution since 1848 and reconfirmed in 1983. And giving access to elements of a discussion about the precise structure of that budget, which may or may not take place behind the scenes, is by definition to the unity of the Crown. That's really inevitable. I think that's really unwise. That's about the question of whether you can make a decision here. I really don't think that's possible. Then, of course, there is a weighting that makes Mr Snelter different from me. I agree with him that you may differ on the extent to which it is desirable for you to have more access to the amount. This is not, of course, about the legality of expenditure. That's checked on all sides by accountants and everyone and everything. So that's not the point. The point is how high it is, whether that height is right and whether it still fits. That is actually the essence of Mr Sneller's motion. Even then, I had the feeling: we have set these amounts in such a way, but you will always have discussions about the amount of benefits and amounts going to the monarchy. That's inevitable. You have to keep that from happening again and again. But I thought last year: what is the general opposition to having another look at that? Hence my too positive advice. But it really rubs too much with the elements I just brought forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u14	All Members of Parliament have four comments, but if you will allow me to give everyone the opportunity for another interruption, because we are also with a few fewer colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u15	I'll wrap it up, too. I would just like to make a comment on the history. The motion was filed in June and was dissuaded by the Prime Minister. It's not like the Prime Minister gave a positive opinion. It was so that the Chamber said: this is what we want. Then the Prime Minister counted his buttons and said: I'm going to carry her out generously. I don't think that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u16	Yeah, that's exactly right. But in that remark of mine there is also the stone in the shoe, the pebble in the shoe, which Mr Sneller started with. I understand that, which is precisely the phrase 'I'm going to do my best'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr Snels and then Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u18	I warned the Prime Minister: Mr Sneller is angry. It's not easy to see that with Mr. Sneller. I have a very specific question, but that is also because I do not know the legal history well enough. The budget of the Royal House is based on legislation from 1973. Even then, arguments were used on the basis of which the level of the budget was fixed, including for that B component. Can the Prime Minister indicate on the basis of what factors, perhaps objective factors, the budget has been built up at the time, because then we could at least go back to that argument to look at the budgetary situation now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u19	In that sense, it is no longer relevant to me, because Gerrit Zalm with the revision of the entire system of financing the Royal House in 2007, 2008... I was in the opposition with the VVD myself then, so I was asked from the team of Jan Peter Balkenende how we looked at that. It seemed to me to be a sensible approach which the then cabinet chose in connection with and in implementation of Gerrit Zalm's report. This has led to a modernised Law Financial Statute of the Royal House. In that context, of course, all the elements have been reweighted. This was also about discussions that often came back afterwards: duty-free, Article 1, Article 2. The extracomptable state was added to this later; it is completely expanded. So things have also changed, but in the core "A" and "B" component, beneficiaries of the Royal House and limiting the Royal House as well, what had already happened in the 1980s, all these elements have come together in that study of Zalm. That was then endorsed by 149 MPs in that amended Law Financial Statute of the Royal House. One of the reasons, Mrs Leijten, was referring to the fact that I am defending the payment for the heir to the throne, is because at that time we established it with 149 people. I think it is a little silly to say, when it comes to this, that it doesn't really suit us anymore, because the amount is too high or too low, so we think it is something else. Most thought it was too high, by the way. The whole point of that Law Financial Statute of the Royal House is long-term... So I'm not defending anything against the Chamber at all. I would suggest to the Chamber that we have determined this with 149 members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u20	That was 14 years ago and we have now received an opinion from the Council of State that it is wise to evaluate this once every five years to see whether it is sufficient or perhaps too much. That was also the reason for the motion of D66 and the Labour Party. I would still think that there is more room to implement and concrete that, knowing that in the 1960s there were even an A-, B- and C-component at that time, it was quite common to make the B-component intelligible. That wasn't a problem for the Crown's unit back then. So I do not understand why we find this a problem 60 years later, especially in the light of the opinion of the General Court of Auditors to evaluate this once every five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u21	It is indeed the Court of Auditors, not the Council of State. That's right. Mrs Leijten says it correctly in the second instance. It is an opinion of the General Court. What I am saying here is that in the late 1960s and 1970s, under Piet de Jong, the whole of the financing of the Oranges was re-examined, and then landed in legislation. This also had to do with the fact that at that time the sources of funding were drying up and problems arose around the entire financing of the royal family. That's when a modern law was made. The Royal House was then further reduced. The royal family is as big as it is, but the Royal House I believe is reduced under Dries of Agt. Eventually, Gerrit Zalm revisited the whole thing for all of us. That was indeed 14 years ago. On that basis, the law was modernised. It has been said that the argument underlying the B component, in itself, is still the right argument to ensure that the King can indeed set up his House while respecting the public interest. This concerns Article 41 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Dan Amalia. I just said something about that. It's not a mandatory system. Sorry, excuse me, but it's a compelling system. So I don't have any influence on that either. That's how the law's done. That is done to prevent you from having every discussion about the amount of benefit that members of the Royal House receive. That also means that it cannot decide to abandon it. She may decide to return it. That's what she did. That's how it works in the legislation. Then there was also a question about budgetary increases for the King. I just explained that. Article 1 of the WFSKH provides for this and basically provides for the benefit to be based on the increase in wages also experienced by the Vice-President of the Council of State. This increase in wages is, of course, linked to the more general increase in wages as seen by the government. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a second subject. That is also the second subject of the answer. After that, I have a number of other remaining topics. The second issue is the question of administrative culture. Mr. Snels asked about the Open Government Act. It is indeed the intention to ratify that law quickly. I can't quite say how fast, but it seems to be happening very quickly. My congratulations to Mr Snels and to D66 for the enormous amount of work that has led to this, because it is an initiative law. Then the voting behavior of the parties in the Upper Chamber. I'll leave that to those parties. Even though I'm gonna frown one or the other time. Then there's the interests of rulers. The system is designed in such a way that directors are responsible for the proper handling of their business interests. I really think we should keep that system going. They're responsible for that themselves. So the government doesn't carry out a full investigation when a ruler takes office, and it doesn't ask: what about your finances? The ruler himself must give full transparency about this. This could mean, for example, the rejection of interests. It may also mean that interests are placed at a distance. If this happens, it will be reported in a letter to the House of Representatives. In doing so, the handling of these interests is also public, not with the divested interests, but with the remote interests. For example, you can look at discussions that sometimes arise around real estate. That is not commercial property, of course, because it has to be placed remotely. For example, how do you deal with foreign real estate? Then there is no risk of apparent conflict of interest on the head, whereas the privacy of such a ruler, man or woman, is affected if you make that public. By the way, that is not black and white. Suppose someone has a castle near Moscow and has something to do with the local government there, that might be different from when that big house is near Copenhagen. As a second example, I would like to mention the financial or business interests in companies. They must also be placed remotely if they are not disposed of. Then it is important that a ruler is no longer able to influence it. Even then, there is no risk of apparent conflict of interest, whereas if you were to disclose at that time what financial interests that governor has in a company, privacy would be affected. I see no added value in that. So we state in the letter to the Chamber that interests have been placed at a distance and thus the conflict of interests has been avoided. In this way it is no longer relevant to indicate in which company such a governing person has interests. After all, he can no longer exercise those interests. At least he can't influence it anymore. I would like to stress once again that the reformer/appointing Prime Minister also does not have the means to form an independent picture of the financial and business interests. This also affects privacy. That is why it is so well arranged, I think, that it is the responsibility of the person to ensure that all interests are reported. Then there was also the question about the two directors who unfortunately left because they found a job elsewhere. We have already discussed this on several occasions in the Chamber. With regard to Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, I explained at the time that I finally weighed this up and that I finally formed the understanding that the appointment that eventually took place at the meeting of the members of the organisation for which she wanted to work on 1 September simply did not coincide well with the office of executive. That also led to her resigning at that time. The subsidy from Infrastructure and Water State can only be reported here that it has taken place in accordance with the rules and the administrative advice. In general, however, it is always up to the former executives themselves to form a follow-up function with integrity. There is no reason at the moment to believe that this is not the case here. It has not been discussed in the Council of Ministers. I have a few more questions about the governance culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mrs. Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u23	I asked the Prime Minister, of course, if he thinks there are any integrity issues here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u24	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u25	That is what I am drawing up from his answer. The Prime Minister is acting as if the process had been followed well, but that is not the case. The answers to Parliamentary questions simply state that Van Nieuwenhuizen was present at all the budgetary councils after reporting that she had become a lobbyist for the energy sector. I would feel quite bought as a minister if I heard later that there was a future lobbyist there. Is this really not shared with other ministers, in the Council of Ministers or at any other time? Only the Prime Minister and Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen knew this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u26	This hasn't been discussed in the Council of Ministers, and it's integrity. The scheme is so that according to the Blue Book, we have also discussed this earlier in the Chamber, it is desirable that directors who are applying should report it in good time. That happened afterwards here, in both cases. That is not prohibited at all, because the Blue Book, as someone has just pointed out, is indeed an urgent request and not a harsh law. I have considered that the appointment of Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen would not last longer in the cabinet. But there is no question of integrity. I'm really throwing that far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u27	If the Prime Minister starts throwing things and then far from him, then you generally know that something is going on. I think it's inexplicable. This cabinet is spending billions on climate action. Who benefits from that? Among other things, the energy sector. And she's been to all the budget councils! And then say here with dry eyes: it wasn't an integrity issue. How? I don't understand. I had asked the Prime Minister how he had reported it to him a month after she had been able to sit on all those budget councils, until it came to the conclusion that it was a problem and that she had to leave. 'Cause he didn't at first. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u28	It is inevitable that directors will look around at the end of their duties. Then of course you hope that the timing runs in such a way that they will not leave until the function expires and not when the function is still running, but that is allowed. That's not illegal. Finally, in the course of August, I formed the opinion that a possible continued ministry of Cora van Nieuwenhuizen was also an option that she thought about: to continue as a minister after the appointment and to accept the appointment only at the time when the cabinet was due to expire.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u29	The reason was that the members' meeting of the Energy-Netherlands association would appoint it on 31 August. Then it would become worldly, for us MPs, the population and journalists. So that was actually the time when the Prime Minister thought: yes, we can't really explain that anymore, that she has been appointed and that she doesn't accept it yet, but that she has her teeth attached to our budget. That was the moment. Or was there another reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u30	No, Mrs. Leijten. The situation was that they had a look at me during June/July; it was on 23 July that she reported that she was working on that application and that there was a meeting where she would be appointed. At that time there was also the intention to continue as a minister. Of course, that appointment would be public, but then it would not accept the appointment until after the end of the cabinet. After having thought this through again, I said to her at the end of August, so before she was appointed to the Assembly of Members, that is not wise. We have all discussed this here a few times. But it's no problem to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u31	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u32	Not all of this has been discussed; not all of this has already been reported. This was just a shortcut in the debate we had on the appointment of MPs in a outgoing cabinet and leaving them as MPs. That's when it was mentioned. That is what these parliamentary questions come from. Former Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen stated in detail that she had not been involved in the budget for the cameras of journalists and for the notebooks of writers. And the answer to the parliamentary questions simply says: 'Former Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen has been present at all the budget councils'. It's not like this has been discussed at length. I really get that you're thinking: the ministry is finite; I'm gonna take a closer look. I get all that. But if the Prime Minister looks back so laconically on this summer and the way this has gone, I find that worrying. I find that extremely worrying, because this is an integrity issue, both at Van Veldhoven and at Van Nieuwenhuizen. One subsidises a club from which she later becomes director, and the other accepts a post as influential lobbyist, while the outgoing cabinet talks about billions of climate subsidies that go largely to the energy sector. I don't see how you can't call that an integrity issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u33	One more time, though. If directors do not continue, it is also important that they find a new job. In the present cabinet too, directors may be orienting themselves towards a position. Then, according to the Blue Book, it would be desirable for them to tell me; I have also brought that to my attention once more. But they are not obliged to do so. There is no question of integrity, as Mrs Leijten is trying to put forward here. I really don't agree with that. I really believe that this has been done correctly. I also think it is a good thing that after appointment at the Assembly of Members she did not continue as a minister and that she immediately took up the post on which she was appointed on 31 August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u34	I am truly amazed at the lack of moral leadership of this Prime Minister. He just says here with dry eyes that it all went right. In the Blue Book, the ruler's manual, doesn't it stand to reason that a governeer who's going to apply should report this to the prime minister? It doesn't say that for nothing, does it? There's no reason in that manual that you should avoid the appearance of conflict of interest. When rulers apply to a lobby company in their own policy area, when they make decisions about millions, there is at least the appearance of conflict of interest. That wasn't prevented here. If two rules in the Blue Book have been violated, how can the Prime Minister say that it has gone correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u35	The urgent request to rulers is to use the Blue Book and relate to the Blue Book as it stands. It's not a legal obligation. In this case, both of them didn't tell me in advance. It would have been desirable if they had. That's absolutely true. I have also brought this to the attention of my colleagues once again, because it is not excluded that others are also thinking about what they are going to do after this cabinet period, because they may assume that they are not returning or that they do not want to return. Of course, there's nothing against that. If that would lead to concrete applications, it would be desirable for them to report to me. But it's not an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u36	Again, where is the moral leadership? I understand very well that that document has a certain legal status and that it is not a law. But you do have a sense of the culture you want to pursue with each other within a cabinet club, don't you? It turns out there are rules in writing about what you want to pursue with each other and how you deal with each other. If they are violated, but the Prime Minister says afterwards that, in his view, everything has gone right, then is there not a culture conducive to integrity maintained within such a club? So I say again to the Prime Minister that he should at least say as a primus inter pares: the Blue Book has not been respected and I condemn it; I condemn that it has not been respected and I am going to do everything in my power to ensure that the good culture within my team is promoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u37	It is desirable that it be reported to me. There is no breach of integrity, because that was the implication in the exchange of views with the previous Member of Parliament. It is desirable that it should be reported to me. I also said in the cabinet that I consider it desirable. I've been reminding people of this part of the Blue Book. They have taken note of this. I have every reason to believe that people would report it to me by now if they applied. But this does not yet raise an issue of integrity in these two appointments. That is really not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u38	Mr. Wassenberg of the Party for Animals. Or does Mr Van Baarle still want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u39	Then I'll finish. The Prime Minister always gives the same answer, namely that it would have been desirable and that there is no question of integrity. In my opinion, there is an integrity issue, namely that the rules set out in the Blue Book have not been complied with. If the Prime Minister, as a primus interpares of this cabinet, refuses to make a moral judgment on this matter, then I think the Chamber should do so. I'm gonna do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u40	I gave that judgment, namely that I find it undesirable that I have not been reported. I have spoken to my colleagues and said that they must do so from now on. I'm assuming that's what they're doing. The idea is that there would be an issue of integrity, because I have not been reported. But that doesn't make it an integrity violation. It goes against the good practices we agreed on in that Blue Book. I don't think that's desirable. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u41	I believe that the Prime Minister has a shockingly limited experience of integrity. He says it's not in the Blue Book. That's right, because that Blue Book doesn't forbid anything. The Blue Book is a guide, an advice, no more than that. The Prime Minister says it's an urgent advice, but doesn't prescribe anything. Furthermore, the Prime Minister says that Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen has reported it to him, that the Blue Book does not prohibit it and that it is therefore not an integrity violation. But Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen told the Prime Minister on 23 July that she was working as a lobbyist for business. All that still had to be confirmed, but that's a formality. But after that, she's been with all those Councils of Ministers. She has been able to suck up all that knowledge like a sponge, about what's going to happen in that energy transition; all those billions. Then you can't say, "Well, the blue book doesn't explicitly forbid it, so it's integrity"? Then you just have to say this isn't integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u42	So I disagree, Mr. Wassenberg. First of all, of course, it is always up to the executive himself, when it comes to a follow-up job or an application to a follow-up job, to ensure that it takes place in an honest manner. I have no reason to believe that this is not the case here. There are also all kinds of rules for how to deal with the government as a former ruler. There's an existing lobbying ban. There is an obligation of confidentiality with regard to confidential state secret information, for example about everything discussed in the Council of Ministers or what is happening there. So all these cases are taken care of. And I will come back to the recommendations of GRECO, about which questions have been asked. So I will go into that further, but in general these rules are very close at the moment, and will be further tightened on parts, in line with the opinions. But I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u43	The Prime Minister himself states that he will be returning to the recommendations of GRECO. However, on 6 July, the cabinet indicated that, following those recommendations by GRECO, there would be no tougher rules for new jobs after a ministership. And three months later, the Prime Minister said: well, I'm not too happy about that; perhaps that non-bindingness is a little harsh, and my political weighting is different. So in the context outlined by the Prime Minister, of "there is no integrity issue, because there has been action, not according to the Blue Book, but that is also not binding," is the political weighting on the non-bindingness of the blue book different?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u44	Yeah, let me just... I'm gonna answer that question. I am now going to answer the question that, among other things, the lady herself asked about GRECO. So I'm gonna take Mrs. Kathmann's question right away. She has even asked several questions about this, and indeed Mr Sneller. And then I come to her question. In 2019, GRECO issued a fifth evaluation, making recommendations, as we know, to prevent corruption and promote the integrity of directors. This is also about the national police and the Royal Marechaussee. Eight of these recommendations relate to the integrity policy for directors. These include the establishment of a code of conduct, rules on dealing with lobbyists and general rules on restrictions on the acceptance of follow-up functions. In the Netherlands, a strong culture of integrity is the starting point of the entire integrity policy of the central government. This is about the whole range of instruments, of prevention, trust, awareness, but also the responsibility of people. These are all important principles. And the policy is aimed at implementing all these recommendations according to their ability, and fully taking into account the Dutch legal principles. Last July, the cabinet informed the Chamber about the compliance report and the progress made by the Netherlands on these recommendations. We are currently considering it. This is also on the agenda of the Council of Ministers in recent weeks; they are now public, so that is all visible. These relate to post-employment restrictions for former directors. So that discussion is now being discussed in the Council of Ministers. Following the recommendations of GRECO, the current rules of conduct for directors are also included in a separate code of conduct. This means that rules on dealing with lobbyists are also included in such a code of conduct. However, we are looking at exactly what we are doing and what might be the case with a new cabinet. So we have to choose something of a division of labour, but at least when it comes to restrictions after leaving the service, we still want to take decisions ourselves. Now to the specific question that has just been asked by Mrs Kathmann. I'm thinking about that, so how to deal with that Blue Book, given this experience too that I assume it was an unintentional omission, but nevertheless undesirable, as I said to Mr Wassenberg earlier, I was not informed in advance that those applications were being made, and whether that is more compelling. And I'm looking into whether that's possible in the context of this GRECO discussion. Whether we still do that, or whether it is immediately up to the next cabinet, we are looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u45	Mrs Leijten, SP, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u46	One more question. The Prime Minister says about the personal responsibility of people who become rulers, who become ministers, you have to tell them yourself whether you have thrown out shares or possessions before you become minister. But Minister Hoekstra stood here during Question Time, in which he said: the state attorney knew that I was investing with friends through the Virgin Islands; the Prime Minister also knew. A number of journalists then asked why this had not been reported to the Chamber. Then an explanation that Balkenende once gave is taken back. He said it wouldn't have to. My question is: is it not now time to change that, so for a next cabinet to tell us what has been done in the run-up to a ministerhood to avoid conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u47	No, I really think that's too far-reaching an intervention in privacy. A lot of directors have a neat savings account and a house and that's it; then there's nothing going on. If there are shares, they must be sold or placed remotely. If the shares are sold, there will be no further mention of them, because then there will be no problem when they arrive. If interests are placed remotely, the Court is informed that the interests are placed remotely. There are two ways you can ask for even more transparency. You can ask: have any interests been disposed of and what were those interests? I would really be against that, because then you are really working to get people even more into their privacy, when those interests are no longer there at the time. Let's also see how we keep finding good people for the cabinet. So I'd really be against that. I would also be against saying, if an interest has been placed at a distance, that the person in charge can no longer influence that company, that organization or that share package: yet we want to know what interest that was. I am against this, but we should have that discussion if we come up with a further response to the GRECO report. It's not in there, by the way. I really wouldn't be in favour of it, because it really has to do with the question of how, on the one hand, we can prevent people from exerting influence in a way that we find undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u49	I note, then, that the Minister of Finance, now that he is outgoing, says that it would be better if there were more transparency about that, that that would not have harmed him and that it would have been better if that had been reported at the time, but that the Prime Minister would not want to report it. Well, that's interesting in the coalition talks. I hope that the CDA's transparency will stand out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u50	A question that was also asked in the context of administrative culture was about the general principles of good governance. That was a question from Mr Snels. We have stressed on several occasions how important it is that they are leading. Some of these principles are incorporated in whole or in part in the General Administrative Law Act. In the cabinet's response to the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee Children's care allowance, a Jetten/Marijnissen motion was adopted calling for further anchoring of the general principles of good governance in the Awb. This is currently being worked on by the Ministries of Justice and Home Affairs. That is in line with the motion; that is the outcome of the motion. The Chamber was informed of this in the state-of-the-art report sent by Secretary of State Alexandra van Huffelen at the end of July. The planning is that no later than the spring of next year a bill on the adjustment of the Awb will be in consultation. In addition to the impact of the Jetten/Marijnissen motion, it also looks at other parts that can stimulate customization, such as the hardness of objection periods. I myself, in response to a question from Mr Snels, in the Chamber debate of 7 July on the POK report, promised that the Chamber would be informed of the proposals in advance in a letter. So that happens before the consultation starts. That's what we're gonna do. Of course, I fully endorse the importance that this is done in a correct way. It does require that we think it through. There are a lot of aspects attached to it. It's affecting the whole government. It also affects the relationship in the trias politicians between the legislator, the performer and the judge. I cannot anticipate that now, but we will therefore involve the Chamber in this in time. Then there is the question of the agendas of directors. They have been more visible since autumn 2017, following a commitment by Ronald Plasterk as Minister of the Interior in 2016. That had to do with the Lobby initiative paper in daylight. Once a week, the departments provide an overview of appointments made by directors with external parties, work visits made by them and speeches made by them to the editorial board of the Public and Communication Service. He then publishes that information on reichsoverheid.nl. Not all activities of directors are included in the public agenda. Of course, the exceptions also apply to the Wob when it comes to the security and economic or financial interests of the State, etc. The directors are themselves responsible for what they put on the public agenda. I do not have the means to enforce it and to do it better than I do now, but I do think it should be done. That's what I reported to the Cabinet. You can see that there is increasing convergence in this: they are following the high standard that I have set myself. Then the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u51	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u52	It is always difficult for the Prime Minister to address other rulers on this point. It seems that this Prime Minister is also the reformer of the new cabinet. Is this also an issue that could be raised in the inaugural debate, so that more concrete agreements can really be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u53	Yeah, I'm willing to say I will. If I am the one sitting there, I will do so; if I am not the one sitting there, I will have the person sitting there read this part of the report of the debate, with my warm recommendation to do so. Then there is the question of how far the influence of General Affairs extends. We know in the Netherlands, as we know, not a presidential system, but a system of coalition governments, which are formed by several parties. The principle of individual ministerial responsibility applies in our state system, with collective responsibility for the unity of government policy. There is no Richtlinienkompetenz in the Netherlands, as the German Chancellor, for example, has. I may try once or twice to find the limits of how far I can go, but I have had a few times that a minister has pointed out to me that I do not have that competence. Then I say, "That's right, but I can try." I am, of course, trying to promote the unity of policy and the progress of decision-making. That's really my job. What is needed for this in different situations is, of course, also very much dependent on the context of such a situation. I do so by, among other things, chairing the Under Councils and the Council of Ministers, but also, of course, in many one-to-one contacts. This also includes the fact that sometimes it is inevitable that I should go outside on behalf of the entire cabinet, either together or alone. Finally, this section. The personal resilience scan developed by Saxion Hogeschool and the municipality of Eindhoven is aimed at directors of local authorities. It also complements the Guide on Basic Scan Integrity for Candidate Directors that the Ministry of BZK uses for local authorities. It is a tool to increase network awareness among candidate directors and municipal secretaries and thus also to take into account the risk that networks may also degenerate, with all the negative consequences. I think it's an interesting suggestion to use this scan in ministries as well and to talk about networks and vulnerabilities in there, so we're going to see how we can do that. As you know, I said just now that we are also working within the framework of GRECO on a more comprehensive response to these proposals. What I will do is to discuss that suggestion in that context. Then the Chamber will also be informed; that is by this cabinet or the incoming cabinet. There's something about a division of labour in it. I told you, what kind of job can you accept if you resign from a cabinet? We would like to say a few words about that. Then how do you deal with lobby again from directors to a cabinet? This is also the subject of additional proposals from GRECO. Part of that will also lie with the new cabinet. But at least I am going to make sure that either this cabinet or myself, or my successor in an incoming cabinet, picks up this suggestion and also informs the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u54	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van Baarle of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u55	Following on from my question about the Ministry of General Affairs, I asked a few questions about the Prime Minister's responsibilities in his office. Where the Constitution knows the Prime Minister as President of the Council of Ministers and this Prime Minister states in some instances "I am not the boss of the country".............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What are the Prime Minister's responsibilities in his view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u56	Take, for example, the terrible affair with the childcare allowance. In the first instance, I had replied far too State-lawly, and that was an unwise answer from me, at the first moment of the press after the resignation of the cabinet, by pointing out the precise division of tasks. Then, in a formal sense, there is no responsibility with the Minister for General Affairs for this terrible affair, but there is, of course, in the sense that I myself chair the miners' councils, myself chairing the Under Councils and, of course, feeling morally and mentally responsible for things that are not going well, even though I may not have personally set them in motion. That's what I feel responsible for. By that distinction between the formal position, namely to be responsible for the European Council, the Royal House, to promote the unity of government policy in a formal sense and not to have a line of guidance in favour of other ministers, versus, on the contrary, from that Presidency of the European Council, it is inevitable that it will be more responsible in a kind of continuum between those few tasks, versus a more comprehensive policy view and job vision, you can of course see the office changing over time as well. But in a formal sense, the main function is to promote the unity of government policy. I see I've convinced Mr Van Baarle. Then I come to a few other questions that have been asked, first of all about Only against the State. That's a very impressive documentary I've watched in silence, just like I think anyone who's seen it. I believe that it was shown again yesterday here to a number of colleagues in the Chamber. It shows once again how terrible it is what happened to these parents. A few of the parents who appear in the documentary, I already knew. I'd heard their story before, too, but if you hear it again, that's terrible. I was asked: what did you notice or keep up with the documentary in particular? Maybe I can highlight two things. One is the empty chair, which one of the five mothers in the documentary decides not to want to be visible. You can understand all that in itself, but I found that empty chair very impressive as the documentary continued. I also found it particularly impressive how others responded to it through their facial expression. The second is the sentence that I thought was about like this, but I have to take it out of my memory: I avoid mirrors, because I don't recognize myself anymore. That was a moment when I got too mad myself when I saw the documentary. The thing about the documentary. I can recommend him to anyone. It's really horrible. Then May 5th as a day off. We've talked about it before. It is, of course, up to the decentralised social partners to agree on the designation of national and recognised public holidays as compulsory holidays. On 28 April, the Minister for the Interior announced that, at the request of the Cabinet, the Labour Foundation brought to the attention of decentralised collective bargaining parties the call for a free day on 5 May. The Empire itself has already agreed that 5 May is an annual day off. The way things are going is now under regular review. Research was carried out in 2019 on the provisions for 5 May in 98 collective agreements. It contains certain percentages of collective agreements which release that day. 57% of collective agreements state that 5 May is a day off every five years. 24% of collective agreements provide that it is an annual day off. In the latter case, almost 40% of workers are affected. A new inventory is being made, but the government has no power of perseverance towards collective agreements. We can't force that. Then about the Crown Domain. Maybe it's good to report for a while, because I've also graduated from the university that there are several grants that a landscape foundation, an organisation or a family estate can use. This has to do with agricultural management, landscape and sheep herd, but also with nature management. On these parts Kroondomain Het Loo also receives a subsidy. One of the four grants, only for the nature management grant, is subject to the condition that the area must be open to the public 358 days a year. The image that the king is there all those days other than hunting, is not correct. On average, less than one day a year is hunted. But also for all kinds of other reasons, which we have often explained in letters, it has nevertheless been chosen to allow the area to be partially or completely closed for longer. Moreover, the above does not mean that the Crown Domain will no longer be eligible for subsidies if the entire area is not opened up. The opening obligation relates only to areas for which nature management grants are applied for. It is therefore also conceivable that the Crown Domain should submit applications for those parts which are not subject to an opening requirement. This applies to the three parts I mentioned: agricultural management, landscape and sheep herding. A nature management grant may also be requested for part of the area. We have already discussed that the application must be submitted by 31 December at the latest if there is to be a submission; we do not know that so that it can start from 1 January. We have agreed here earlier on how to deal with it in the Chamber. The Catshuis remains its current function when the temporary housing of the Ministry is realized there, I can say to Mr Eppink. That means that I can still make the official receipts in that beautiful cottage myself. I find it very nice to receive colleagues in the Tower because of the cockiness of the scale of that room; that is so incredibly Dutch. Then I think, "Look, that's how it's gonna be." But the Cats House is also fine. That little building that finds out won't be very disturbing on the side where you're going in. But it's not there yet. I understood that Mr Eppink had gone to see the building. But I was there recently, and it wasn't there then. Then about the government's delegation to the China Olympics and the Qatar World Championships. On that I can say that at a time, per visit, we look at what is good to do. Look at the added value of the visit, the bilateral relations and the situation in the country. This applies both when the king goes as head of state and when the members of the cabinet go. Of course, Qatar is particularly affected by the fact that we have not yet qualified. So it still seems a little theoretical. Hopefully that will happen. We hope that we will have to take a decision on this, because then we apparently qualified ourselves. Then, of course, we are going to make that decision. But I don't want to anticipate that now. Of course, I, like human rights organisations, think it is important to keep the dialogue going, including as regards the situation of migrant workers in Qatar. As far as China is concerned, we are keeping an eye on developments there. Moreover, a broad dialogue with China is also of great importance, with the issue of human rights, in particular the fate of the Uighurs, not shunned as a theme in the talks. Moreover, in view of the whole corona situation at the moment, it is very theoretical whether visitors and representatives of governments can attend the Olympic Games. We are going to see that, but at the moment that does not look hopeful for those who would have liked to be there. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u57	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u58	According to the Prime Minister, he answered all the questions. I asked him four questions, but he answered zero. My first question was: where does the law state that hunting or privacy justify a closure of more than 14 weeks? Let me refer to what the Prime Minister and his colleagues have said. On 14 September 2018, Minister Schouten wrote that the closure was essential for the balance between wood production, the presence of fertilizers and recreation. Three years later, on 20 April this year, 2021, the closure was justified by the same minister by pointing out the king's privacy. That's a completely different reason. In between the documents made public at the request of the Chamber is a document dated 9 March 2016. It justifies closure by pointing out the royal hunt. So that's three reasons to close. None of those three checks out. What I asked the Prime Minister was true in the law which is cited to close the Crown Domain for hunting, privacy or wood production, pine and recreation. Where does the law say that? If it's not in the law, it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u59	I am going to make one attempt, but then I am really going to ask the Minister of Agriculture to take it up with Mr Wassenberg, because I find myself disappearing here in a swamp that he can swim much better than I do. This also goes far beyond the competence of the Minister for General Affairs. Although I have overall responsibility for the Crown and for the Crown's unity, it goes without saying that the separate ministers also have their own responsibility for the part that lies in their area. This really is in the field of the Minister for Agriculture. But I'm gonna try one. One. The Minister for Agriculture reported that the temporary closure of part of the Crown Domain as of 15 September 2021, including on the basis of the protection of privacy, does not conflict with the currently applicable grant conditions. This is also mentioned in the grant decision. Two. Following Mr Wassenberg's motion, the Minister of LNV informed the Chamber on my behalf and provided the underlying documents available for the Kroondomain Het Loo grant decision to the Chamber. Three. The notarial act on the Crown Domain, requested by Mr Wassenberg, was published as an annex to the Crown Domain Act which entered into force on January 1971. Finally. On 20 April the Minister of LNV gave a comprehensive reply to questions by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Sneller concerning the way in which the Crown Domain Act of 1971 regulates ownership and management. I'm out of ammo with that. Further questions will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u60	This is not a swamp in which I can swim better than the Prime Minister. This really is the fog created by the Prime Minister. This really is the Ruttedoctrine: refer it to another minister and create fog. I asked: where does it say that privacy can achieve an exemption? I think the Prime Minister says: that's what Minister Schouten writes. But I really don't see how that's regulated in the law. Anyway, we'll get an answer to that later. This privacy is, after all, becoming the Prime Minister's thousands of things. When it comes to fellow Minister Wopke Hoekstra and his interests running through the Virgin Islands, this should not be revealed because of privacy. If there are ministers who have interests that the Prime Minister does know about, this cannot be shared because of privacy. Personal privacy is being taken into account and is obviously something new. As I said: in 2016 it was the yacht, in 2018 it was the management, and in 2021 it is suddenly privacy. It's being made up. It's not a legal provision. I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to this, rather than refer to letters I have known for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u61	There is a link between the arguments put forward by Mr Wassenberg. Exactly how that was set out, even in time, I can't exactly reproduce here. He's asking me over. Hence my suggestion that I ask the Minister for Agriculture, in response to Mr Wassenberg's question on privacy, hunting and so on, to look at everything very precisely and explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u62	And when can the minister there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u63	I will come back to that in second term. In the second term, I will return to what is the convenient timing for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u64	Thank you. Mr Heerema, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u65	If this was the end of the first term, I'm gonna try to avoid a second term for myself. I was out of the Chamber for a moment, and I think that at that very moment my question was answered in 5 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u66	You were in the hall. But it doesn't matter, I'm just gonna do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u67	If I can hear it again, I don't have to ask you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u68	I assumed that at least the members of my own group would listen to me. Very briefly, we cannot enforce this as a state government. This really needs to be agreed by the decentralised social partners. On 28 April Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister of BZK, also on behalf of the Minister of SZW, sent the message to the Chamber that the Cabinet had asked the Labour Foundation to return the call for a free day on 5 May to the attention of the decentralised collective bargaining parties. You can see that this is now in any case settled for the government, i.e. for the Empire, the Defense, the Police and the judiciary. For them May 5th is a day off. If we look at the whole of the Netherlands, we can see that 38% of the people in the Netherlands are currently free on 5 May, as far as they are covered by the collective agreement. I have to put it another way: 24% of collective agreements provide for employees to be free every year on 5 May. This concerns 38% of workers. Once every five years, 39% of workers and 57% of collective agreements are affected. 19% of collective agreements do not mention 5 May. That's 23% of the employees. That inventory is now being re-created, because it is from 2019, really a few years ago, so hopefully they are now on. Those results will be sent to the Chamber this year, or at the beginning of next year. As much as I agree to make 5 May a day off, we cannot force it as a government. That's not up to us. That's the legal barrier here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u69	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes so that Members can prepare for the tabling of motions. It would be nice if you could tell me which members will not make use of the second term. Then we can take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u70	The next item is the continuation of the general budget and the King's budget, with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u71	Mr President, thank you. The Prime Minister does not find it a problem that the former Minister of IenW was able to talk about the budgetary states, while she was not yet appointed as a lobbyist for the energy sector. He did see other integrity issues. They had arranged that she would be replaced if it were possible to touch her portfolio at the ministry. However, it could remain in the budgets. I really hope that the Prime Minister will come up with a different reflection, possibly with a closer understanding. It's common for him to have a different idea when he's going to think about it. But it doesn't make any sense. Becoming director of an institution that has been subsidising you for years is not right. Mr President, I have four motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the surcharge scandal and multiple integrity issues have revealed structural problems within the public administration;]] [[noting that both the GRECO and the Council of Europe have long been critical of Dutch political culture;]] [[Whereas sound democracy and good governance involve transparency as to which networks are involved in making political and policy choices;]] [[Notes that, among other things, Hogeschool Saxion, the Ministry of the Interior and the RIEC have developed a project with resilience scans for local authorities to map such networks to prevent network corruption;]] [[calls on the government to also carry out this resistance scan within the state administration in which it is possible to start at the Ministry of General Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u72	I have heard that the Prime Minister said so, but this is a support to actually get it back. So if the Prime Minister asks for the motion to be held, I will certainly do so. But I think it's okay if we try to send this signal. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas integrity of directors and elected representatives should be an important part of "the new administrative culture";]] [[noting that the investigation of the anti-corruption watchdog GRECO shows that the Netherlands is not making any progress in introducing integrity rules;]] [[Considers that, regardless of the missionary status of the cabinet, efforts should be made to strengthen the integrity of the administration of the country;]] [[invites the following measures to be developed:]] [[a final discussion with the Lower House if a member of the Board leaves prematurely for another post, other than a post in the public administration;]] [[establishing a lobby register in which lobbyists should register contacts with directors;]] [[making public the entire agenda of directors with the sole exception of private matters;]] [[I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. 11 (35752);]] [[the establishment of a stock register for directors and members of parliament;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas transparency about the financial interests of directors and politicians is important for the integrity of public administration;]] [[noting that the outgoing Minister of Finance indicated that it would be desirable to report in future what financial interests had been divested in the run-up to the ministerial position;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal so that future directors will now have to report on the financial interests that have been divested in the run-up to the ministerial,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-7]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u73	Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. The Prime Minister's reasoning is a little bit: we are not talking about the royal family's finances, because we have already agreed on this for years. Well, then maybe we should talk about these appointments again. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prime Minister states that the Royal House Financial Statute Act has as its function, inter alia, that there is no annual debate on the level of costs for the Royal House;]] [[noting that every year there is a great deal of turmoil, both within and outside Parliament, about the King's budget;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with an overall revision of the Royal House Financial Statute Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-I-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you, and thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. We have not agreed on a number of issues. I walk down three, firstly, the business and financial interests of directors. I think it's about controllability. Even though I've placed an interest at a distance, I still have that interest and I can influence it. If you put a company at a distance, you can still make decisions that affect its value. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European anti-corruption watchdog GRECO already made a recommendation in 2019 to require ministers and State Secretary to publicly understand their financial interests but that the cabinet has not yet succeeded in doing so;]] [[Whereas the integrity of Ministers and State Secretaryes is beyond doubt for citizens' confidence in the government;]] [[whereas it is only verifiable whether there is (the risk of) conflict of interest if directors disclose their financial and business interests;]] [[Calls on the Government to adapt the rules in such a way that the Prime Minister, when taking up a new cabinet, makes public the business interests of the incoming directors, how they have placed their business interests at a distance and update them annually;]] [[invites the Government to provide further information to the Chamber which includes at least:]] [[which directors own real estate abroad and in which country;]] [[in the case of financial or business interests in undertakings, the names of the companies concerned;]] [[and a description of the way in which the control of financial interests is placed at a distance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u75	I had another motion to support the Prime Minister or the other reformer on the constituent debate. It is about the publication of the agendas, but I am just checking whether it does not overlap too much with Mrs Leijten's. I shall table it at a later date if I have had a good look at Mrs Leijten's motion. As far as Qatar is concerned, I would like to remind the Prime Minister that a motion on this matter has been adopted by the Chamber, so I assume it will be carried out at a possible delegation. As far as China is concerned, I would like to hear that we can at least discuss it before it is finally decided. Finally, the B component. The Prime Minister was right to say that you can weigh it differently. In 1964 the Ministers of State Drees and Old wrote: the Chambers cannot oblige ministers to draw the line differently than they consider appropriate, but they may refuse to settle for the border they have drawn. Nicely said about these people. The Council of State said in 2016: in that case, it is up to the Parliament to decide whether and, if so, what political consequences should be attached to it. That's what I'm going to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u77	Mr. Chairman. Two motions and only one minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the application for (agricultural) nature and landscape management for Crown Domain Het Loo under number 8147325 for the Crown Domain has not yet been shared with the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to share this grant application with the Chamber in the framework of the promised administrative transparency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-I-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u78	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the notarial deed. The Prime Minister said it became public in 1971. I searched and my associates searched, but we didn't find him. That could be us. If so: mea culpa, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa. But then I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister to share it with the Chamber. Maybe there are more MPs who haven't found him, if they've already searched. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber the notarial deed of the usufruct of the Crown Domain and all the underlying documents accompanying the donation of the Crown Domain to the Dutch people before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-I-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u79	Just in time!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Baarle van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u81	Thank you, Mr President. The group of DENK insists that it is not possible to show so little moral leadership if two former executives violate the integrity rules of the cabinet. Then I am referring to applying without the Prime Minister's permission, to having a job with lobby companies for weeks while they're still in the cabinet. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that two former executives have applied for another post in breach of the Director's Handbook, without submitting it in advance to the Prime Minister;]] [[considers that integrity should not be a dead letter;]] [[regrets this course of action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u82	Let me now turn to the second motion, which deals with the recommendations of GRECO. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas GRECO reports show the advice to establish a enforceable set of integrity rules for directors;]] [[noting that the Cabinet is working on a code of conduct for directors;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how this code of conduct can be enforced or sanctioned and to make a proposal to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u83	The next item is the general affairs budget and the King's budget, the second term of office. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u84	Mr. Chairman. Mr Wassenberg asked: when is this connection between all these arguments coming from the Ministry of Agriculture? It comes before the debate on the budget for agriculture. They'll take another look at that. That law on the Crown Domain can be found in the annex to the law, on laws.government.nl, Staatsblad 1971, 159, kst-10686. But we'll send it over, too. Yes, I am making a commitment to Mr Sneller that the cabinet will indeed inform the Chamber prior to any trip to the Olympic Games, should it come to that. I also have to respond to an amendment to reduce the Public and Communication Service, the old P.O. Box 51, structurally by €500,000. That agency is responsible for the public communication to all residents in our country. This means that this service is about Rijksoverheid.nl, for example. That's the government's primary information channel. The service manages the government's websites. And there are important public campaigns, such as the donor campaign, campaigns against domestic violence, but also the corona campaigns. The service also provides personal answers to questions on the phone, by e-mail or via social media. That really is a task of the old PO Box 51. Reduction of the formation therefore has implications for public communication, for the provision of information to society. That's why I don't think making a reduction on the formation of the DPC is in the interest of people who have questions to the government. Last Thursday, during the General Financial Reviews, the Minister for Finance also advised against the amendment tabled by Mr Omtzig on a reduction in the benefits of the Public and Communication Agency. That is why we do not believe that this would be a good thing. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 6 (35925-III), by Mrs Leijten. She predicted it: I ask her to hold that motion until the internal affairs budget is dealt with, and to look further at the substance of the matter there. And I say again: we are therefore, in general terms, in favour of this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u85	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs Leijten and see that she wants to hold her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u86	The motion in part No. 7 (35925-III) goes too far: final conversation, lobby register, also for the House of Representatives. This is far too broad for me, but I have already made a commitment to Mr Snels on one part, and I think it is also in line with what Mr Snelter asked. I'm talking about making the whole agenda public. As we do now, I will also raise this in the inaugural debate. The motion in part No. 8 (35925-III) I should like to advise against the debate. We just don't agree on that. So let's see what kind of pronunciation is made. The same is true of the motion on item No. 7 (35925-I). I do not recommend it with reference to the debate. This also applies to motion in part No. 9 (35925-III) by Mr Sneller. In fact, all three motions are about elements that we disagree on. Let us take a look at what the Court has to say about this, but for my part I am saying that it is not advisable at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u87	Let me take a look at Mr Wassenberg. Your motions are not yet on the agenda. Would you like to respond to a motion from someone else? Yeah? Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u88	Yes, on Mrs Leijten's motions. I like the motions and I would therefore like to ask whether my name can be linked to the motions in part No. 7 (35925-III) and 7 (35925-I). _______FW- I think something went wrong here. I don't have the motion numbers on hand, but it can't be twice motion in part number. 7 are_______ I asked Mrs Leijten if she could. And it was okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u89	That's a very easy way to make a name for yourself! Oh, boy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u90	You did announce it. We're going to put your name under the motions in part no. 7 (35925-III) and 7 (35925-I), Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u91	The motion in part No. 8 (35925-I) I'd like to ask you to hold. Then we will take that into account in the letter from Agriculture that is coming. So I'd like you to stop for a second. I see him nodding, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u92	Mr Wassenberg nods yes. The motion in part No. 8 (35925-1) is detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u93	That also applies, quite frankly, to the motion on item No. 9 (35925-I).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u94	I now see Mr Wassenberg nodding yes, so also motion in part No. 9 (35925-I) is detained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u95	Finally. I think the motion in part No. 11 (35925-III) is another point on which we do not agree in the debate and where a ruling is requested from the Chamber. But with reference to the debate, I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u96	Motion in part No. 11 (35925-III) is not recommended, you say. And motion to part No. 10 (35925-III)?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u97	He doesn't express any enthusiasm for my policy. I think it would be wise if I didn't give you an opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u98	I see it. Motion in part No. 11 (35925-III) is in any case not recommended. It also seems to me to be a very logical conclusion. This brings us to the end of this debate, of this debate, of the General Affairs budget and of the King's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-13.u99	We are going to vote on the motions tabled after the autumn recess. That'll be Tuesday, October 26th. We are going to vote on the amendment and the budget on 7 December. I thank the Prime Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament, I thank the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I'm suspending the meeting. Then the next debate begins, and that is the continuation of the debate on the Kingdom's budget relations.
