ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all the spokesmen, but also the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Legal Protection. The next item is the debate on the privacy leak in the GGD system. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven as the first speaker, but I see Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, on a point of order. We regularly ask for the information to be provided in time so that we can have a good debate with each other. I note that we received the letter of many sides yesterday for ten minutes in the evening, on the basis of which we must debate today. I really think that's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	You have made your point, and I think you have made it on behalf of many Members of Parliament. Is that right? Yes, that's the case. Then that message was also sent. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Over a decade ago, governments discovered data as a large-scale implementation tool. The aim was to tackle terrorism, fraudsters and viruses, but in practice our rule of law slowly became a surveillance state. Over the past year, SyRI, the supplemental affair and this GGD data breach have caused problems for innocent people through discrimination, unprecedented injustice and identity theft. IT hubris, a sacred data belief, led to blind confidence, blind spots and blinders, resulting in social damage. We sing in choir: legislation, implementation and control must be improved. But we're not gonna do it. The Chamber recently voted for the Super Data Act WGS. The police, Defense and Tax Department violate the law and supervisors like the Dutch Data Protection Authority do not receive any extra money. If this does not change, data affairs such as these will continue to repeat themselves and we will continue to undermine the rule of law. I'd like a response from the Minister of Justice. Mr. Chairman. The GGD leak is not an incident, it's a structural problem. The corona crisis calls for action. So they started to work, under pressure and hasty, with testing, testing, testing. The shaky systems from 2003 were quickly scaled up. Thousands of employees were deployed with almost unlimited access to a lot of data, without proper control of abuse. Even after ten months, security had not improved and thus remained inadequate. Mr. Chairman. As of 1 July, there were worrying signals from employees and various media. Various risk analyses were carried out by Fox-IT on behalf of the Ministry of VWS, RIVM and the GGD and also a secret analysis by the GGD itself. Why secret? I'll ask the Minister. The guidance committee shared her concerns with the GGD, but on the basis of all the signals and analyses nothing was done for months and the signals did not reach the minister. That's why he misinformed the Chamber last week. Why did the Minister let this happen? Why has so long been waiting for serious intervention, when so much was already known about the problems? Why did it happen last week, after everything came out, all of a sudden? Then why couldn't you turn off the export button? Then why couldn't you turn off the print button? Why could fewer employees have access to all kinds of data at that time? And now we know everything? Are there any other investigations going on? Are there any other investigations being carried out or are they going on? Mr. Chairman. The European privacy law, the APG, is clear: in datasets with test results, bsn's and addresses of millions of Dutch people there are technical facilities, such as access restrictions and organisational facilities, such as control and sanctions. The practice was completely different. There were no directing and no sharp frameworks for data use. There were samples instead of systematically keeping track of those who could see which files, the so-called "logging" and functions for blocking and printing data could be widely used. What happens now to close the leak and help the victims? Is the Minister's four lines of action sufficient? And why does it have to be months again? In the meantime, in the next two months, is it all safe? The entire government will have to improve its data system significantly. I would also like to say this to my fellow Members: ICT and data are a key political issue. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of questions and suggestions for a more general way of solving this structural problem. Is it possible to use the bsn differently, for example with a temporary number per transaction? That narrows the risk of identity theft. Will the government make structural use of privacy by design, data minimising, target binding, audits, quality standards to prevent this kind of thing? And is the cabinet going to appoint a chief privacy officer to each major executive agency that centrally regulates privacy? Let's stop stacking incidents and structurally improve government ICT and data voting. So despite our structural preference for the short term and our aversion to complexity, we have to break our decision-making and the moderate track record with ICT and finally come to serious responsibility in the field of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	It says "round off" now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	Yeah, I do that to some of you preventively. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Can people trust their data on the test street to be safe? Can they trust that? That question is at the heart of today's SP. If people are going to avoid the test street because they fear that their bsn number will be on the street, we have a major problem with dealing with the corona virus and we lose sight of the virus. The theft of data is very intense and I think that many still deny that if your data is on the street, criminals can do very bad things with it. Of the week this was shown again during a broadcast by Pointer. If people have a lot of data, they can try very specifically to pick your wallet out. We must prevent this at all costs. Now a new system has been rigged by the GGD with steam and boiling water last year and systems have been adapted to do the source and contact research and to scale up the test policy quickly. We quite understand the speed with which this has had to happen. We also have a lot of respect and appreciation for all the people who do this important work at the GGD. That must continue to be said. But if things go wrong like that, it can't be muffled away. That is what happened last week in Question Time. If things go wrong because it has had to happen very quickly, then acknowledge the problem, tackle the problem and answer here, but do not keep bullshit stories here. The problems with the ICT systems at the GGD were already known from the summer onwards. Co-workers reported it. News hour already had a whole report in September on the large number of people who had access to data. Why has nothing been done to solve this problem all these months, I ask the Minister? What was his own role in that? What was the role of the Ministry? How is it that if he's the client of these systems, he's been watching how it could've gone wrong for six months, three-quarters of a year? An important question now is how much data has actually been stolen? How big is the leak? The Minister doesn't say anything about that yet. But it's important, of course. Is this about thousands of people, is it about hundreds of thousands of people or is it even about data from millions of people? When are we gonna hear more of that? More importantly, when are people themselves told that their data may be in criminal hands? Mr. Chairman. Then last week's Question Time. The Minister has said a lot of nonsense there with a lot of bravado. That is not acceptable with regard to the SP. My question to the Minister: was he simply not aware of the seriousness of the problem or did he think that he could trivialize the problem with a great deal of bravado? I honestly don't know what's worse. He talked about screenshots that would be shared with criminals, but it's about large-scale theft of large files. He mentioned much lower numbers of employees who had access to the data and now it appears that many more people had access to that data. Then the Minister closes with "well, that's how it works, boys," as if the Chamber is crazy and this minister has everything under control, which is obviously not going on. Mr. Chairman. The SP notes that this minister is very eager to claim success, but has a great deal of difficulty in recognising and addressing the major problems we face. One of the solutions we are looking for as SP is to prevent this type of large data leak. We really need to prevent this. This can be done, for example, by finally giving the Personal Data Authority the means to start proactively to detect leaks. There was a briefing on that recently. And what does it turn out to be? How many people are available at the Personal Data Authority to proactively search for data leaks? That's 0.2 FTE. So, one person at the Dutch Data Protection Authority every week spends one day a week tracking data leaks. Do we think it's weird that we have so many and we're always late? Mr President, I would like to hear from the cabinet why it turns the privacy watchdog into a shrew. Why don't they get the money and the means to do their job properly? Isn't the huge data breach we're talking about yet another reason to finally invest in the Personal Data Authority so that it can do its job and not sit in front of a dime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all know examples of older people who are victims of scams, often because they have information and data that you think: hey, that person couldn't have just gotten there. Millions of Dutch people are in danger of being scammed, just like in the example I just outlined because this minister has not done his job. This minister does not have the security of the data of people who have been tested at the GGD. That is why many Dutch people are trading in personal data on the internet. Access to a data set of 6.5 million Dutch people: the wet dream of data criminals. This is because crucial mistakes have been made under the responsibility of Hugo de Jonge. Already at the beginning of 2020 there were concerns about the security of the data systems. Employees indicated that they could all access people's data, including the bsn number. We've been worried about data leaks for months, but nothing's been done with it. I read that in the last period 30 people have been fired from the GGD because data has been tampered with. Officials of this minister were already aware from the summer that the protection of the data was not in order. At the end of last year, the risk analysis showed that there was indeed a high risk of data leaks. Mr. Chairman. This minister was asleep. He didn't think it was important. Internal warnings from relevant GD's have been ignored. Staff cries went into the trash. I wonder if any mention has been made of the data breach with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. When did that happen, anyway? Of course, it's not surprising. Privacy and Minister Hugo de Jonge are like water and fire. Hugo de Jonge doesn't have much to do with protecting personal data. This minister shared test data with researchers and companies in other countries for a long time, without people knowing it. This minister wants to enter the corona passport stating whether someone has been tested or not. Mr. Chairman. We've all been through the debacle of the corona app. The Dutch Data Protection Authority's criticism of that app was harsh. It was unclear what big tech giants like Google would do with that data. The server was unsafe. Under the guidance of Hugo de Jonge, the last piece of privacy we have is sacrificed. What affects me most is the way Hugo de Jonge deals with these mistakes. He does not acknowledge in any way that there is a danger in the misuse of that data. He always knows better about it: "That's how it works, guys." He promises a lot, but does not keep his appointments, is not open to criticism, but blames the bad guys and does not take responsibility for his own actions. Mr President, he misinformed the Chamber during Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	I can see that Mrs Van den Berg wishes to interrupt, but I understand that she would like to wait a little longer with her interruption. Maybe it's good to talk about the minister, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	Sure. Speaking of Hugo de Jonge, I'm talking about the Minister, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yeah, but he's in a position. That's what I'm trying to give you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	The Minister can talk nonsense with a lot of words and conviction. That's what he did about testing, that's what he did about the source and contact research, that's what he did about the corona app, that's what he does about the vaccination strategy and now about protecting citizens' data. And what's next? When is another body coming out of Hugo's closet? And how big is that closet anyway? The Netherlands deserves better leadership. The Netherlands deserves a better approach to the corona. The Netherlands deserves a minister who stands for privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	I would like to put a few facts to Mr Azarkan. He lays all kinds of things down with Minister De Jonge who I think belong on another desk. First we got the app. If there is one thing that happened to the app development, it is that the Dutch Data Protection Authority was involved at the beginning of the process. On the basis of her advice, there have also been many changes. So I guess that's just a compliment to the minister. I should like to ask Mr Azarkan: should he not address his questions to the Minister for Legal Protection? The GGD does not fall within the scope of the VWS Ministry, but the Dutch Data Protection Authority is the responsibility of the Minister for Legal Protection. I'd like to have a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	I would like to say to Mrs van den Berg of the CDA: stop it! Stop it! There are 6.5 million citizens at risk of being scammed. And then here we are going to have a debate on who exactly we should be with. We are dealing here with two ministers. We are dealing here with the Minister who coordinates the Corona approach. That's what we're asking him about. Surely those citizens don't care if the G.D.D. is doing that or not? In the letter "I have read it well" it says very well how it can be done. Suddenly, now that this data breach has turned out, the Minister can take care of everything in the short term. There are four approaches in the letter. They're fine. The only thing he should have done in April of last year. Then those citizens would not have to sweat at home and ask themselves: when will I get a request via phishing; when will I be asked to pay something without knowing? So I don't understand which way Mrs Van den Berg wants to go. Should I now compliment the fact that citizens' data has been leaked here, or that the corona app has gone well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	Let's point out that the CDA doesn't want to take anything away from the seriousness of everything that's happening. I want to make that very clear. But what I do want to talk about is, first of all, that Mr Azarkan does not mention some facts correctly. I'd like to fix that. Secondly, if you look at how to organise this in a different way, it is also good that Mr Azarkan looks at the role of this minister and what the role of other parts is. Do we have to talk about this as a room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	The one who doesn't have the business and the facts in order is your minister. That's Hugo the Young. It has been telling things to the Chamber that have affected people in society and experts enormously. He's just been talking nonsense. He's been telling us that the vog statement was enough. Now it turns out in practice that you could work those six works within the GGD and access those data, without a vog. The Minister states that there is structured, long-term permanent investigation. It wasn't. The Minister doesn't have the facts in order. You should focus on that and not on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	Good. Thank you. And the minister is here in his position as minister on behalf of the Crown and not as person. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. We have said it before: the government and ICT, that is not a happy combination. In itself that is an understatement, but the government has surpassed itself here, in a negative sense. This is no longer a privacy leak; this is the wide opening of all the windows and doors with the warm invitation: come in. And that of a government that has declared cybersecurity one of its priorities. A government that self-defenses the data of its citizens. Last week in Question Time the Minister really played down the matter: yes, there is a problem, but no, it is not as bad as you say. But in last night's letter that was really nuanced. The systems are not designed on a task of this magnitude; they are designed on original GMD tasks and not on a pandemic. For example, GD employees may have access to an unimaginable amount of private data that they should not have access to at all. In addition, people have been rushed, without significant screening, sometimes without a vog; a walhalla for criminals who want evil with other people's data. It's never been that easy. The government itself has spared them the trouble of a hack. Well considered, it's a miracle it took so long before anyone with this data came along. In the facts, we read that CoronIT was mentioned in May last year: it meets the requirements of the safe use of citizens' data. What was this statement based on at the time? On 16 September, Nieuwsuur reports that test staff could access data that were not necessary for them. A day later, the inspection reports that more and more stability and interconnections are emerging, reducing ICT bottlenecks. Between May and September, according to the facts, there was little evidence of safety problems. However, the inspection talks about bottlenecks. In the meantime, there must have been signals. Can the Minister comment on this? And is there still a white key? We note from the letter that short-term measures will not be implemented until March. Why hasn't that happened before? So we have two months left with an unsafe system. Only this week will access and search options be restricted. Why hasn't that happened before? And does this leak mean that the data of people who come in for regular GGD tasks are also on the street? As far as we are concerned, the key question is: who is ultimately responsible for this tragedy? Is that the chairman, Mr Rouvoet, who is ultimately responsible for the functioning of the GGDs where signals from staff have been ignored? Or is it this minister? Mr. Chairman. People are worried about their data. It's clear that data has been resold. Their concerns are therefore only justified. What if criminals succeed in their intent to take out loans in the name of these people? What are you going to do to limit the damage? As far as we are concerned, reference to websites is really not enough. Who's gonna compensate for the damage? Who provides legal assistance? We just received a letter from RIVM. What's that supposed to mean? What does this mean? Can the Minister answer that? In short, Mr President, this is the umpteenth time that this US Secretary of State is out of control. The feeling creeps us out that it's all starting to get a buddy too big. It seems that he is bluffing away from the problems and that does not create confidence, not in the House of Representatives, but certainly not among the citizens. The point is that people have confidence and that they can continue to get to test streets and not be afraid of losing their data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. Today we have this debate partly because of the initial response of the Minister, but also of the President of the GGD GHOR, to the news that the data of millions of people may be traded. That reaction was completely out of place, namely with self-expression but also with total underestimation of the problem. You could call it easy, because at Question Time the Minister waved away concerns about the IT system and he talked about criminal behavior of individuals who have no herb against crops. The GGD came up with a statement that there were all kinds of stories full of inaccuracies and incompleteness, instead of just admitting very clearly and quite honestly the painful truth: the IT systems used by the GGD were leaking like a basket. There was insufficient control of abuse and a high risk of privacy-sensitive information has been taken, which can now put people at the mercy of criminals who abuse it. "Yeah, guys, that's how it works." That was the response of the Minister during Question Time last week, when my colleague Buitenweg called for an answer to the question of whether it was true that thousands of staff are now understanding from the letters that tens of thousands of employees have access to sensitive information from millions of Dutch people. "That's how it works." As far as we are concerned, this attitude is precisely the problem, because it doesn't have to work at all, if you take privacy by design as a starting point and if your basic principle in the design of all your IT systems is that as few employees as possible have access to as little information as possible to keep the work going. Because why should a call center employee be able to look up all the people being tested? Why should someone who does source and contact research and therefore calls people with the question of who they are in contact with should also be able to print out or download the data of 100 people? That is unnecessary and risky. It is a good thing that the Minister, in his letter last night, really admits that during Question Time the misunderstanding could have arisen that the control was in order. 'Cause it isn't. It is a question of structural random checks, the Minister now admits. What a contrast with the answer to our parliamentary questions, made in September and with answers of November, in which he writes that there is "a sharp check on logging." How does the Minister look at that answer? Does he recognize that answer is factually incorrect? Or would he define "structurally random" as "sharp control"? I really hope not. And why is it only now that an automatic control system is being put in place, which will then be ready by the end of March, when it has been clear for a long time that the system is not functioning? In this debate, I expect the Minister to admit clearly that major mistakes have been made at the GGD, but also at the Ministry which is ultimately responsible for the Corona approach. What's next? How do we restore people's confidence in testing and in the actions of the GGD? We naturally agree with the Minister that testing is crucial in tackling the pandemic. The most important point is privacy by design. Are all the systems "CoronIT," "HPZone" and RIVM's registration system for vaccinations tested by external parties to see if employees really only have access to that information that is absolutely necessary for their work? And why is authorization per GGD arranged? Surely there must be crystal clear central guidelines for this? Is there going to be a waterproof system to keep track of employees in data noses that they absolutely don't have to do anything with? Mr President, concluding. This scandal has cast an ugly stain on people's trust in how the government handles their data. Unfortunately, registering certain data for testing, vaccinating and thus immediately a quarantine obligation is necessary in the fight against the pandemic. That's why privacy has to be a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think any of us want to be here today, and the minister would have preferred to be somewhere else. But that's how it is every time a data leak in the care, and unfortunately there have been some in the past few years. It is the sector with the most data leaks. The GGD, the ggz, the Donor registry and hospital care: it is unfortunately hit again and again. Once again, millions of people are wondering whether their data has been leaked. Some people are literally wondering if they're still safe at home. Then it is painful for those people that the minister still has no idea how big the leak is and whose dates exactly have been leaked. This does not, of course, help to restore confidence in that crucial source and contact research and in that crucial test policy. Still in our own systems to find out how big this leak actually was, we wonder. What, of course, does not help to reduce confidence is that the Minister comes to the Chamber and gives us a bit of sighing and factually incorrect answers last week. In his letter, he did apologize a little, but I thought it was significant last week. I found it indicative of the lack of awareness and of the consequences of potentially losing millions of data. That's literally dangerous. Privacy and data security are not the key, but should be the basis. First of all, I would like to know from the Minister why attention has not been paid to this privacy at the GGD earlier in the year. We've been in this situation since March. We read that, especially in November and December, more attention has been paid to privacy. How is that possible, especially if the Chamber made it so clear in April how much it attaches to it? Wasn't there anyone at the Ministry who thought, "Oh, if we want it boarded up at the app like that, they'll want it at the GGD." Secondly, does the Minister still believe that all call centre employees should have access to all files? This is not in line with the principle of privacy by design, mentioned by other parties. How is this access being reduced, both from the number of files to which someone has access, and from the number of people who have access? I would also like to comment briefly on the corona-opt-in. The minister doesn't mention it comparable, but in the base, that corona-opt-in knows exactly the same danger, namely large amounts of privacy data that can be seen by large groups of people who actually have nothing to do with it. Eight million people have never given permission. Nevertheless, staff of general practitioners, emergency services and pharmacies can peek and trade in those medical records of people, if they wish. Just like the G.D.D. employees could. We really don't understand why that same method can still exist with that corona-opt-in. So we ask to go back to that other base of that corona opt-in, and that is not that corona-opt-in. As far as my group is concerned, the corona-opt-in and other data leaks I mentioned are examples of a wide error. Again and again systems are rigged with the focus on what can be done with data. Actually, never gets focused on what's not supposed to be possible with that data. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister must recognise that there have been years of wrongdoing, that wide-ranging healthcare should bring ICT systems back to that drawing table, that NEN standards should be tightened up and that privacy standards should now be aligned before you embark on such an ICT system. And if that doesn't happen, I'm afraid we'll be back here in another period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. We are in an unprecedented crisis and in a crisis mistakes are made, while thousands of people are working hard, and also by the Minister. That's tough, and we'll see about that. However, it is also our role as a Chamber to remain critical when things are not going well. And especially because a data breach involves so many people: 8 million people, almost half of the Netherlands, whose address data, medical data, bsn number is potentially on the street. I regret that criminals were able to do so, but even more shamefully that the internal coverage of this and the signals and warnings about it have been ignored. During oral Question Time last week, the Minister reacted too nonchalantly, with a bravure known to him, and things were told or outlined that were now simply not true. In the meantime, there is an extensive letter and answers to 399 questions, and thank you very much for that. I have gone through them, but still a number of questions remain insufficiently answered. I confine myself to a number of matters. At the start of CoronIT, tests were carried out by lots on information security and privacy. However, it is still not clear to me what exactly was in these tests. Why, is my second question, have no more stringent safety measures been taken? It is not true that we only know what is going on last week; as early as April there were signals, in June there were signals, in September there was an extensive reportage in Newsuur, in which we already knew that there was a major security risk. And why have some functions, such as the export function, only been removed from the system since last week? My third question is that the Minister reiterates that the Chamber was aware of the vulnerabilities. Well, I take that to heart, so I looked. Yes, there have been some parliamentary questions. There has been a technical briefing, but there too the alarming feature is missing. I read in a report from the LCT before 24 December that there were serious vulnerabilities. The letter of 24 December, which we then received, says that there are some vulnerabilities. On questions raised in the technical briefing, Mr Van der Zalm of VWS says: I do not know the answer. This will take place in November. Mr. Chairman. It is incredibly important for the support that remains of confidence in the way in which personal data is tested and handled. And mistakes are made in a crisis, but this data breach is not on its own. We've had the mouth masks, we've had the tests, we've had the slow vaccination, we've had the magic with vaccination rates. And that raises the question of whether this minister is not talking about shoes, whether a number of tasks should simply be redistributed into the cabinet; perhaps towards Minister Van Ark, perhaps towards Minister Ollongren. Because if there is not a greedy and structured crisis organisation, if trust is undermined every time, it will eventually undermine the support of the inhabitants of the Netherlands. And that's the worst we can have. We all need a little perspective. We all need a bit of air, but for the time being we really need to do it with enough threads for the strict measures proposed by the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. We all yearn for the end of the corona crisis. With testing and vaccinating we walk that road to the end. A huge operation that thousands of people are working on every day and that had to be implemented and carried out at a raging rate. But just when such projects are set up and organised under great pressure, the risk of avoidable errors is greater and you need to take additional steps to secure your internal organisation. With this science and the coverage last September about the lack of order of processes and ICT at the GGD, it is all the worse that the screening of new employees has not been done adequately. Despite the fact that Corona was known that the registration systems were not safe, it was nevertheless chosen to continue working with these systems during the corona crisis. Signals about these safety risks have not been actively addressed. Mr. Chairman. It is scandalous that there are people running around in a crisis like this who abuse their position and sell sensitive data illegally. Are all the people who committed this in the picture? What are the next steps? It is also scandalous that the 25 GGDs, as their foreman Rouvoet puts it, have given the thief the opportunity. Mr. Chairman. The disputed export function that allowed large files to be shared with personal data has now been removed from HPZone, we understand. However, I am curious to see what impact this has on the work of the GGD and the source and contact researchers. What about the export function in other systems? How was the safety in those systems secured? What further steps are being taken to secure systems? Apparently, it takes until March for systems to be automatically and continuously monitored for abuse. Mr. Chairman. How does the Minister weigh up the speed of accessing data, which gives us a view of the virus, with regard to safety and care, the importance of which is at least as great? I saw a letter of fire from the RIVM just before the debate, which also warns about this. Can we assume that the systems are in order at vaccination registration, even before we're ready for the large numbers? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we cannot reverse the fact that personal data has been leaked. It is all the more important to have clarity about the follow-up steps. The GGD says it hasn't been able to tell who the data was stolen from, because it's part of the investigation. What is the state of this investigation? Is there a view of the extent of the data leaked? How long does it take for people to know if their data has been stolen? People are afraid that their data has fallen into the wrong hands. Those concerns are justified. They run the risk of becoming victims of scams, identity fraud and fraud with medical information. Last week, we received reports that personal data stolen from the GGD were already used by scammers last year. The Fraud Helpdesk could have traced about 40 notifications back to last Monday's coverage. Is this message true? Mr. Chairman. It is important to pay attention to forms of fraud that individual victims are or may be affected by. What happens now to stop the trade in stolen personal data? How will the Minister inform the victims of this? Is there any thought about how we can compensate for possible misuse of personal data through this data breach? And at least as important: how does the Minister of Health regain the confidence of Dutch people? How do we maintain the test and vaccination readiness? This mistake of the GGD should not result in people not wanting to be tested or vaccinated, because of fear of losing data. In short, what step is the Minister going to take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	I have not heard Mr Veldman about how we can prevent this kind of mistake, this type of data leak, this kind of hacks, this kind of theft. One of the ways to do that is to give the Dutch Data Protection Authority much more opportunities to deal with this preventively. At the AP each week there is one person who can prevent one day of searching for data leaks. That's what I just told you. I'd like to ask the VVD if they think that's acceptable. Doesn't Mr Veldman agree that if you want to avoid this kind of problem, you should invest much better in the Personal Data Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	I agree with Mr Hijink that you need to look closely at the size and structure of the Personal Data Authority in order to do what they are also set up for. But I would like to add that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has not been set up to become the owner or owner of systems that work with it. It's not the authority that owns systems that contain mistakes. In this case, it is the GGD that owns those systems. So it is also up to the GGD to ensure that there is no possibility of leaking data, that there is no possibility of obtaining and trading data from those systems in an unauthorized manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	This is a very strange argument. That would mean that we don't need a police force either, because Mr Veldman owns his own car and thus decides whether or not he drives too fast. You have a watchdog to look for vulnerabilities, for mistakes, and then intervene early, so that millions of people's data don't end up on the streets. That's why you have a watchdog. Only this watchdog can barely bark. He doesn't even have time to bark, because there's only one person who can look for that one day a week. For the whole of Holland! That's bizarrely little! I am not asking Mr Veldman who owns the problem, but who should act as a watchdog and whether he has sufficient resources to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	The authority is that watchdog, as well as the police is a watchdog in cases where things are physically stolen. That doesn't mean we have to have an infinite amount of police capacity to make sure my car isn't stolen when I park it out here with the engine running. Then I also have a responsibility to make sure that if I'm not near my car, my car is locked, that the thief can't just get in. And yes, if it's stolen, then we have the police to make sure the unsub is tracked down. But that's different from when the cops stand out front next to my car to make sure it doesn't get stolen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. I'm just asking a simple question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	And that also applies to the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	I'm gonna ask you a very simple question. Is one person who is available to the Personal Data Authority one day a week to detect data leaks sufficient in the eyes of the VVD? Or does the VVD actually think it's a shame that that's so little?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	I believe that, on the basis of the calculation made by Mr Hijink, and Mr Hijink and I cannot judge whether that is sufficient or not. That is why I said just now: yes, I agree with Mr Hijink that we need to look at the implementation capacity of the Personal Data Authority in order to fulfil their role properly. Mr Hijink concludes by saying in advance that this must be done more, because they have a responsibility for data leaks. No, it's not the Personal Data Authority that has responsibility for the data leaks. Whoever owns the system has the responsibility to ensure that his system is waterproof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	Finally, because otherwise it will be a repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	This is not my view. There is an extensive analysis of the Personal Data Authority that there is a chronic shortage of people and that a doubling of the number of FTEs is necessary to perform their normal tasks at all, such as detecting data leaks. That's not my opinion. External research has shown that. So you are talking about an amount going towards the EUR 62 million, which would be necessary to do the work for the tasks that they now have. And that money just isn't there, because the VVD and also the CDA keep blocking it. A large part of the Chamber wants that money to be made available, precisely in order to avoid such major problems. But you've stopped that every time. And now there's only one person, one day a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	You made that clear, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. I think it's a repeat of moves. I have just said that I would like to see with Mr Hijink what is needed in the full breadth of the Personal Data Authority. That doesn't make the authority responsible for leaking. The sealing of leaks is a responsibility of the system owner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	I find this speech by Mr Veldman of the VVD to be bent. My colleague, Mr Hijink, probably agrees. We decorated something on paper. Because we have an institution, an authority. The practice is that that authority says: we have absolutely no capacity to do so. We had a hearing here last week about the supplemental affair. It took a year and two months before the Dutch Data Protection Authority came forward with its report, which showed that Dutch people had been discriminated against, that the GDPR had worked wrong and that the GDPR had been broken in many respects. One of those heart cries of the Personal Data Authority is: please give us a little more manpower. I ask again, just like Mr Hijink of the SP. Wouldn't it make sense in the changing time frame in which we see that a lot of organizations use data, algorithms and so on, to grant them the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	The same question as Mr Hijink's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yes, Mr President, the same question deserves the same answer. With Mr Azarkan too, I am prepared to think and see where it is necessary to do business, including with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. This is without prejudice to the responsibility of the system owner to ensure that his system is in order. I would rather invest in ensuring good systems than in endlessly building and building unrolling control over control. I think it's about getting the basics in order. Those are systems themselves, and then the GGD in this case is the owner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	Same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	What we see here is that this has just gone wrong here, despite all the reports, which might have been put into use by the Dutch Data Protection Authority if they had had the capacity, so they might have been able to protect a lot of Dutch people. The warnings were there. There were internal staff who said, "How is it that everyone has access to that data?'. Of course, people and organisations are responsible for protecting their belongings. But if we have one agent in the Netherlands and then we say, "We see the increase in the number of burglaries," then we can't say that everyone is solely responsible for protecting their own stuff? It is happening more and more and therefore it justifies bringing more capacity there. Let's take a look at it. Come on, Mr. Veldman, I say through you, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Azarkan's gonna hit the nail on the head. The warnings were there, internally, of employees. The discussions with the Dutch Data Protection Authority were held in the autumn. Then who is responsible for solving the problem? Not the authority. The GGD was and is responsible for sealing data leaks. The signals were from employees. The signals and conversations were there from the authority. So exactly what Mr Azarkan says is happening. It's happening!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u50	I will ask one question about that and I will try to get a little clearer what Mr Veldman wants, because he shifts responsibilities and I do not agree with that. There are shared responsibilities, but we've had SyRI, the supplemental affair, now the GGD data breach. Red wire? The GDPR, the European privacy law, is systematically violated by the government. The Personal Data Authority is there to maintain the GDPR, even if the government violates it, as it turns out today and has always been proven over the past year. Then there have been three or four investigations, chamber motions, which all show that more money for the authority is desperately needed. The VVD is a party of law and order, of tough tackling, of wrongdoing before addressing and resolving. And now Mr Veldman stands here and says to my colleagues: 'Yes, we can take a look at it'. Just admit that that authority is desperately needed, that they need more money and that we are going to look at it, so to speak, in the next cabinet period. Just say that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u51	I think I just said that, namely that I would like to see what is ultimately needed with each other. But that is without prejudice, and I repeat that to Mr Verhoeven, that in the case we are discussing today the signals were there, the talks with the authority have been there and so it is up to the GGD to ensure that there are no data leaks. So maybe it should have been at the beginning. Then the conversation should not have been here, but perhaps it should have been in other places. Why not in the city council of Amsterdam, with alderman Kukenheim, responsible for health care and therefore also responsible for the GGD. Are we investing enough in the GD? The conversations should have taken place there, not just at the end of the ride, if you see that there is a data breach, and then say: we need to increase the Authority's Personal Data. Yes, we need to see how great that authority must be and whether they can handle their work in a good way and enough. But in this case, the GGD data breach that we are discussing here today, I note that the authority has held the talks, and that we have seen with each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u52	You'd ask a sharp question, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u53	...that there hasn't been enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u54	Otherwise, for the umpteenth time, it will be the same question in different forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u55	I believe that I have kept the promise of a sharp question. One supplementary question. Mr Veldman now pretends that everything that the Dutch Data Protection Authority does happens afterwards, at the moment that it has already gone wrong. There has already been contact in September between the authority and the GGD about this incident. I believe that the Minister's letter last night states that there has been little follow-up. I think that's because there are incredibly many files on the desks at the authority asking for extra attention, extra control. That's not so easy with all these digital systems. So please bear in mind, I say to Mr Veldman through you, chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, for the serious deficit that undermines our rule of law, to the Personal Data Authority as a watchdog of the European privacy law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u56	I think you've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u57	I share with Mr Verhoeven the observation from last night's reports that there has been little follow-up. That follow-up should have taken place at the G.D.D. The Minister now tells us what steps have been taken, with the question of what else is needed. Those steps should therefore have been taken by the GGD in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u58	I'm going on at this point. We are a step further, because Mr Veldman admits that we need to see how much capacity the Personal Data Authority needs. But the simple observation at the moment is that this capacity does not provide sufficient protection to ensure that this type of data leak cannot occur. Does Mr Veldman recognize that now? I'm going back to the SP's previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u59	This is a repeat of the same question, namely: is Mr Veldman, is the VVD, willing to look at what is needed in terms of size at the Dutch Data Protection Authority? And yes, I think I have said that four times now, I am prepared to look at that with each other. Only, what I don't say "yes" to blindly is: throw extra money at it and then it's gonna be okay. 'Cause that doesn't mean it's gonna be okay. In the base it is still the owner of the system that has to ensure that its system is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u60	You said that a few times. Mrs. Kröger. This is going to be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u61	That is why we are now going to have a debate on the need, for example, to ensure privacy by design much better. But it's too easy to pretend you need an infinite amount of police, or 0.2 fte one day a week. The recognition that there should be more capacity with the Dutch Data Protection Authority, I am now hesitant. Can we at least see that in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u62	No, nothing "feisty." The simple observation is that we just have to do what is necessary with each other. And yes: privacy by design. Even then, Mrs Kröger is gonna hit the nail on the head. It is not the Personal Data Authority that takes care of the design. It is the designer, the owner, of the system that takes care of the design.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u63	I see Mrs. Chicken and I see Mrs. Van Brenk. The same question cannot be repeated ten thousand times and then just in another form. You'll get the same answer, so I'd like to ask you if you have a new question, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u64	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I agree with D66 and the SP, but I have another question. My question is about this. Mr Veldman constantly refers to the responsibility that lies with the GGD. But does Mr Veldman agree with me that this was also done on behalf of VWS? I've read the minutes. They've been to all the important conversations that took place about the system. In any case, they have been present since November, as far as I have been able to look back. So they knew about the risks and they were aware of the information security leaks that were potentially there. So I think it's a little too easy just to look at the GGD, especially since it's a national crisis. Does Mr Veldman agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u65	Sure. If Mrs Kuik has listened carefully to my contribution, she knows that I have said a number of things about it. In fact, I conclude with the sentence: in short, what step is the Minister going to take? Of course, the Minister has a responsibility in this too, precisely because he gives the directions. Just because he's the national corona minister. Of course, the Minister has a responsibility. I also see, with Mrs Kicken, that in yesterday's letter from the minister very often it says "the GGD reports," "the GGD indicates," "the GGD says so," "the GGD says so." Then my question is: what does the Minister say? What does the Minister do? So yes, I agree with Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u66	... My second question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u67	Come to this microphone, because the middle one is really meant for big, heavy men.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u68	I think that's a compliment in the fight against the coronakilos. Thank you, Mr President. I'm getting serious again. In any case, Mr Veldman has been participating in this dossier since June. I was just triggered by the fact that the Minister said a number of times that the Chamber had been informed about the vulnerabilities. My question is genuine: was Mr Veldman really alarmed by the fact that there was such a big problem with the systems as they are now rigged?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u69	I think that, if we look back together as a whole Chamber, we may not have taken enough notice of that. I saw that GroenLinks asked written questions. I think Mr Hijink also asked written questions. We have talked about it a number of times in technical briefings, but apparently we have not sufficiently worked together on this. Looking back, we should have done better with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u70	My final question is, how come? Wasn't there enough alarm? I noticed that some reports talked about serious vulnerabilities. But when I looked back at what we saw in the answer, it was about "some things" that had to be addressed. That wasn't specified. That is why my question is equally sincere. We should have looked more closely at ourselves, but were you sufficiently alerted, with the knowledge of today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u71	I think that's what I just said we should have been sharper on each other. But I also think we've been looking for the balance every time. What's it gonna take? When I look at the last ten months, I see a room, including myself, that was quite concerned about the sight of the virus and about the speed of having test results available. I do remember that debate in which we had a discussion with this minister about the fact that it took three, four, five days for a test result to arrive. So that requires something from the people who work there, and that requires something from the systems. In between that is the search for a balance, exactly what I have just asked the Minister. How does it weigh up the balance between keeping sight of the virus and the alarming letter from the RIVM that came in just before this debate and care and safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u72	I will also touch on the point that the VVD makes about responsibility. I think Mr Veldman says: the GD is responsible for the leak. What does that mean for the question of whether citizens who are about to get into trouble because of this data breach will be compensated for the misery that has been suffered? I think the VVD made that point, too. Do they have to be at the GGD, or does the VVD think that this government still has a role to play in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u73	I don't know. That is why I have just asked the Minister whether consideration is being given to compensating victims if people can be proven to be destroyed by these data leaks. That's exactly my question. I don't know if that's what the G.D.D.'s up to or anyone else. I do know it's a question we have to answer with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u74	I have a motion in this area. Maybe we can work together, because I believe that citizens who are asked by the government to go to a test street and who are now the victims of this are not going to suffer. If the VVD is in that position too, and perhaps that is the case for the whole Chamber, then I think we should send out a strong signal on that. I hope the VVD agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u75	I have just sent that signal in my contribution by asking the Minister if any consideration is being given to compensating people. I believe that the government has a responsibility to the people who are really being destroyed by these data leaks. I hope that the Minister will have a very good, clear and clear answer to that in a moment. Then I don't need a motion after that. But if necessary, we're gonna watch that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u76	In fact, I would like to continue with the answer to Mrs Kuik's last question, which creates some sort of false contradiction. We need to fight a pandemic, so we need privacy in second place. I believe that statements were also made by the GGD on this issue and I am curious about that. I do not think that is necessary at all. I think you can do just fine about privacy and fight a crisis. I'm curious if the VVD thinks you should make some kind of choice between privacy and fighting the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u77	I have in my answer perhaps it has come across wrongly, certainly not wanting to say that there is a false contradiction. I don't think I made that suggestion either. In fact, it can be a conflicting contradiction. So there's no such thing as appearances. Just the fact that those two things are opposite each other makes you not have to choose between them. You need to strike the right balance between the two. Because care, security and protection of privacy-sensitive data are of the utmost importance. However, given the situation we are in as a society, it is also of the utmost importance that we get out of this crisis as soon as possible, that we can test it as soon as possible. It is therefore right that this Chamber addressed this Minister in the spring at the speed of testing. It can't be that some people have to wait five days before they get the results. There is no apparent contradiction. There is a contradiction in interests, and that calls for a good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u78	I find that rather worrying, because it does not have to be. There is no contradiction between the importance of privacy and the fight against the crisis. If we always create systems in which privacy by design prevails, even in the fight against a crisis, there is no contradiction. Then it doesn't have to be. Then there just isn't. So I find it really worrying, because I feel and taste a little bit at the VVD as if we're just fighting a crisis, and developing privacy by design, then we're getting a little second place. I really don't think that's necessary. So I find that rather worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u79	In theory, I fully agree with Mrs Van Esch. If the systems were in order... Except they weren't, we saw. But we had to act. That makes, as I read in the letter from RIVM today, that RIVM says: moving to a new system is very vulnerable to the current crisis. And yes, I can imagine something about that vulnerability. It therefore calls for a good balance. But in theory, I fully agree with Mrs Van Esch. If the systems had been in order in the front, there would indeed have been no contradiction, because then the data would simply have been well protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mrs. Agema also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u81	The cabinet, of course, intends to boost the whole test policy much more during the crisis. For example, we will get test gardens at festivals and you name it. I would like to know Mr Veldman's thoughts on this. Is that going to be a system like this? You go out for a night and your whole bsn and everything's in a system? Or does that have to be something low-threshold, if we have to scale up so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u82	Well, that first certainly doesn't seem like it. I believe that we are having this debate today because we are all reasonably displeased by the fact that so many people's data are on the streets and that people's personal data are now being dealt with. So I fully agree with Mrs Agema: if we are going to test and do rapid tests in a different way, where we are not only testing for the detection of the virus but also for excluding the virus so that people can go to an event, then that will have to be done in a good way. I believe that this Minister has some questions from previous debates on how this is going to be organised. I agree with Mrs Agema that we should only use this if we can do so in a safe and sound way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u83	Actually, I mean, it's more low-threshold. Some 7 million tests have already been carried out, with a lot of risks for people who could be the victims of data trafficking here. I can't imagine you're gonna have to consult your whole giant to get to a festival. So I'm actually asking the VVD: does the VVD agree with me that if you want to set up a future test policy that should be much more low-threshold, with a temporary code or something like that, with a bar code or something like that? Because you can't get the entire history and data and you can start asking people for something low-threshold like access to an event, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u84	I think I agree with Mrs Agema. That fits perfectly with my own plea a few months ago, when we were talking about the road out of the problems we are in through large-scale testing and seeing if testing can help with the re-opening of sectors. At that time, I explicitly stated that there are two different ways of testing, i.e. testing in the detection of the virus, where a doctor also has a responsibility under the Public Health Act to pass that on, in addition to testing to rule out the entry of an infected person. I can imagine that the latter can and must be much more large-scale and therefore also be more accessible, because you ask the event organizer to ensure that no infected people enter. That's a different responsibility than tracking it down. Within this other responsibility, I can imagine that it can be done in the GMD test streets more small-scale, more easily accessible and therefore with much less data exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u86	Madam President. I saw some comments on social media this morning: should the Chamber have another debate on such a data breach? My reaction would be: yes, it is good to talk about it, because it is a serious matter. It's not just to blow something up, but it's serious, because it can get people in trouble when sensitive information ends up with criminals. It is also serious because it can produce a strong pinch for people's willingness to test if they think: my data is not being handled properly. That is why I think it is important to talk to the government about this today, first of all to see what we can learn from how things went wrong. Secondly, what can we do to reduce the damage and support victims? My third key question is whether everything is now being done to prevent repetition and to protect sensitive information as well as possible. So the first point is: how could things go wrong and what can we learn from it? Let me get this straight: I have been here in debates myself, too, and there has been a tremendous amount of pressure to scale up. Testing is incredibly important. Then it may be that too little attention is paid to privacy and data security. That is not a good thing, and that is not a justification, but if we do not name it and do not understand it, then we too easily ignore this reality. I think the lesson is right: if there is such a pressure on getting something done, how do you prevent, for example, that information security is thought to be something that is just as less priority and that will happen? That could be a risk. How does the Minister look back on that? It is, of course, also a rather special role in which we also address the Minister of Health, because it is not really a legal task, but a service agreement that has actually been concluded with a umbrella of organisations, GGD GHOR, actually from municipal services that are now given a very special task in this. I went over that service agreement. I notice that these privacy guarantees are not very much appreciated. Would it not be good to learn from this that, if there is another particularly large project that is under a great deal of pressure, you should ensure that such a service agreement not only states what is to come out of it, but also that it is very important that these conditions of information security are respected? And is this particular figure of that service agreement legally sufficiently anchored? That is a supplementary question to the Minister. One last question about how things could go wrong. Many colleagues have already mentioned it: has the contradiction in the process been sufficiently organised? Why is there insufficient response to signals in the sense of: pay attention, something is wrong here? I think that's also a key question that comes up. Secondly, is everything done to reduce damage and support victims? I read a lot of good things about that, like the line that the GGDs have opened. What I do miss is clarity about the extent of the data breach. This also creates a bit of shadowiness about what we are talking about. I understand the criminal investigation, but if criminal investigation goes into a burglary, you also know a little bit about what was stolen from your house; not exactly, but you know if half of it was removed or if it was just a laptop. So a little more sense of what we're talking about right now would help. And how are people assisted who actually have damage? The final point: is everything now done to prevent repetition? I think I read in last night's letter very firm actions. I don't really have a lot of questions about that, two only. The first question, hanging on the other side, is whether it will not affect speed if we start doing all these information security actions now. Because of course we do not want things to go wrong again on the other side. That speed is also important. How is that balance sought? The final point: what about the security of the vaccination data in the registration of the RIVM? What exactly is being registered and are these data properly secured? Mr President, those are the questions I would like to put.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Madam President. When we spoke in our group in preparation for this debate, we said to each other: what happened here is actually unprecedented. When you talk about the amount of data and the sensitivity of the information that has come out about people, private, available and traded by criminals, it is certainly worth a debate, even in this busy week, where we also know that the Minister of VWS has to appear in this Chamber for several days. However, we think it is important to talk about this, because we read that it is already possible for €30 or €50 to get someone's living details, phone number and bsn number. It concerns thousands of euros, with which large datasets are traded, because it is so unique that there are relatively easy bsn numbers in it. Mr President, back in time. We in the Chamber have also called for support for source and contact research. In the Chamber, a lot of attention has been paid to the use of extra people to carry out that research. There's been a lot of pressure. Not only personnel were needed, but also technology had to be scaled up, in systems that probably weren't meant and created for that after all. A lot of people had to work with a lot of sensitive information. That went badly wrong. We need to be critical of that. It seems that a choice had to be made between speed and safety, but both are important. I'm asking the VWS Minister to look back on this. How does he look back on the choices that were made in there? I would like to draw attention to the people whose data have ended up on the streets. Is it clear which data were used and how many people were affected by this? Is there also an active search for offers of these datasets online? And what will the Cabinet do for these people? I mention the moment when you become a victim of identity fraud or the moment you suspect that you are being taxed or that your data has been misused. How does the government anticipate that? We get disturbing messages from people who say: I would like a new bsn number. So what's the government's reaction? If someone becomes a victim of identity fraud and theft and can prove that it can be traced back to this GGD data breach, that damage can all be recovered from the GGD. The G.D.D. broke the law with this. I ask the cabinet what it takes into account and what extent of liability should be taken into account. What exactly did the control of these operations look like? We heard from a student who worked there, who sketched the contrast between the moment he takes an exam where there is a huge amount of control and working with GGD data, where the control is nil. Then I also have the question: do all employees now have a vog? Is it true that you can work without a dog for the first six weeks and shouldn't we change that now? Mr. Chairman. I also ask about the Dutch Data Protection Authority. To what extent have the deficits of the Dutch Data Protection Authority been a direct cause for further development of this problem? How is it now ensured that the system is safe? Are the export functions indeed all disabled? Could the ICT Review Advisory Board, alongside the AP, play an active role? Normally they advise afterwards, but shouldn't we let them watch real time to solve things now? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister if it is possible for the source and contact investigation to be carried out safely. How can the Cabinet assure people that it is safe to have you tested and vaccinated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "An open door calls the thief" is a spell by the well-known Dutch poet and politician Jacob Cats from 1632. How appropriate to the issue we are discussing today and how unfortunate that this spell is not chiseled in the façade of the Catshuis, where the cabinet regularly discusses the corona plans. 'Cause that's the way it is, isn't it? Within the test policy system, all doors were wide open. No door was locked. You didn't even have to knock. Anybody could've gone in anywhere. No one checked who went in or out and what was taken. So it could happen that thieves could go on for months. What does it mean if your identity is stolen? The thief sells your identity for a few tens and criminals then order stuff in your name, charge a surcharge in your name, sign up subscriptions in your name or drop off your money via your whatsapp. What about you? You can bleed and fight the injustice for the rest of your life, including the government probably. All this is in no way proportionate to the purpose of the test policy. You will only have responded with a slight cold to the Minister's urgent appeal to have you tested and now become the victim of the theft of your identity. The fraud help desk is already talking about 40 cases, probably the tip of the iceberg. After all, more than 7.2 million tests were taken. In the midst of all this misery, the GGD speaks of an intelligent scaling-up model drawn up in conjunction with the RIVM and the ministry of VWS. The cabinet went from an intelligent lockdown to an intelligent reopening of society. The GGD had an intelligent BCO protocol and therefore also an intelligent scaling model for testing. That was something about the summit the chairman of the GGD realizes by now. Over the last few days he made a rather dumb face in front of the cameras and admitted that he knew all along that the door was wide open. He himself had invented that identity fraud did not outweigh the fight against the pandemic. Does the Minister share this view? Is this what he says to the victims of identity fraud the week after the fall of the cabinet because of the supplemental affair? You'd almost think the president of the G.D.D. faked his stupidity. After all, I cannot imagine a former group chairman having such a bad political antenna. Over the past week, the question has been why the government thinks that so much data from millions of people should be collected in a leaking system for something as simple as a corona test kept me most occupied. The questions I asked about this were answered with a "that's why." I'm not gonna settle for this. In view of the interruption debate I just had with Mr Veldman, I say that we need to move towards a much more low-threshold system where we are working with only a one-off code. You can't reopen society and keep asking for millions of people but all their data. It can't be! I am not a data specialist, but I am sure that this cannot be done if the scaling-up of testing policy is such a major priority for the cabinet. What struck me from the e-mails I got from people who do know data security is how easily they could name the errors in the system. In addition, I received many messages from troubled citizens. People who are also afraid to be tested with complaints. People who are afraid of blackmail and theft of their identity. What can the government do for these questions? The answers to the many questions put by the Court show that the situation remains the same at a few points after the situation. And, oh yes, the retention period of all those personal data of millions of Dutch people also goes to twenty years. Minister De Jonge has sent some twenty action plans over the past few years, and he can correct me on the right number of actions to the Chamber, none of which has come to fruition. But I ask him now to commit his fate to reducing the damage of this immense, personal suffering, which is done to so many good and sincere citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to carry out and vaccinate adequate testing, source and contact studies, it is important that data be kept. However, people must be able to rely on careful handling of their personal data and their data being safe. Information management at the GGD must comply with the highest standards of security, as the Minister rightly pointed out last week. The CDA finds it first of all worrying that the GGD apparently did not indicate the ICT problems they had and that the basics were not applied by the GGD. I call blocking the export function and logging who's in the system. In 2019 the Haga Hospital in The Hague had to pay €460,000 fine because patient files were poorly secured. People who had no business there could peek into medical records. You'd think every institution would double check on its own security from that moment on. I wonder out loud whether it's true that employees of the GGD's warned about the privacy problems in the GGD's corona systems last summer. Have these signals been taken seriously by the employees? What table did they end up on within the GD? Why didn't the chairman of the GGD GHOR umbrella organisation, Mr Rouvoet, take solving this problem as a priority when he was appointed? Why did Mr Rouvoet not ensure that a CIO, a chief information officer, was appointed? Can the Minister guarantee that employees can report abuses internally and externally, if necessary, without fear of reprisals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u93	We now know from the Minister's replies and letter and from the minutes that there were reports in April and that there were signals in June. In September it was in Nieuwsuur. Apart from what employees have or have not reported internally, Mr Rouvoet and VWS knew at that time. This raises the general question, regardless of what employees have reported, why more stringent measures have not been taken at the time. After all, it was already obvious at the time, as we can see in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u94	A fair question from Mrs Kuik, because I would also like to know how this governance has been conducted internally. Why is nothing done with it at the time? The Ministry was the principal, but the GGD was the performer and it must first of all ensure that these systems are in order. I am surprised that they have not responded internally. If that is a cultural problem, I would particularly like to have action on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u95	Those are legitimate questions. That's also my quest, but the key question is, now that I've read through everything and seen what we already knew about it publicly and what they knew about it internally, why export functions and print functions haven't been removed before and not been scaled up much more. In fact, steps were only taken last week, while in April, June and September both public and internal at VWS and GGD knew something was going on. And then it seems that, at the moment that the emergency is getting high enough and RTL spends an item on it, we only find it really urgent that action is being taken afterwards. To sum up, my point is: it doesn't matter whether people have reported it internally or not, action should have been taken at the GGD and at VWS much earlier. Does Mrs Van den Berg agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u96	I very much agree with Mrs Chicken. My big question is: what has been in the culture that has not caused that to happen? What have been the obstacles to non-action? In my contribution I also indicated that these are just some basics, which you don't even have to be an ICT expert for. A few times the example of the house has been given: if someone tells you that your window is broken and your lock is not working properly, then you just know that you are very accessible to theft. So I would like to know in particular: what is not in order in the culture at the GGD that this is not taken up in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yes, that culture, fine, but in my opinion it also lacks a basis of checks-and-balances, at the GGD but also at VWS, so that there is simply no imitation, neither on the basis of internal reports that were simply known, nor on the basis of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. So in other words, there is absolutely no external pressure to ensure that this kind of thing is just settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u99	I think Mrs Kikken is right to ask about VWS' client function and what happened to it. In general terms, I have already drawn attention to this during the discussion of the annual accounts last year, by asking whether there will also be a separate inquiry from the Court of Auditors, precisely to look at this whole governance. We have seen this, for example, in the data discs that disappeared at the Donor Registry. Is that all well and good now, even with VWS?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u100	I have a question about this, too. There is talk of culture at the GGDs. In the answers to our questions in the written consultation I read that the authorisation is arranged per GGD. There is therefore no central directive from the GGD, controlled by the ministries, on how the authorisation is regulated. The fact that each GGD does it in its own way through complete decentralisation goes beyond a culture of course. Then there's just a system error.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u101	In any case, the CDA has already asked questions about the way in which the GGDs are organised with each other at the beginning. I think that the Minister has rightly indicated that it is often not the best solution to problems to carry out a reorganisation in the middle of a crisis. However, the CDA strongly agrees with Mrs Kröger that this needs to be looked at more closely, including how the GDPs are interlinked and how there can be a more unambiguous structure and more unambiguous internal lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u102	I don't think it's about whether we're doing a whole reorganisation right now in the middle of a pandemic. The point is that you can actually say via a ministerial instruction: we are going to regulate certain things in a certain way and all GGDs are going to conform to the same authorisation protocol, because we cannot have it being conceived and implemented per GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u103	I would like to have an answer from the Minister, because I understand that this is more complex than Mrs Kröger is now saying, even because the local authorities are responsible for this. VWS can therefore order that something has to be done in a certain way, but it has much less control over how it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u104	Then we're both looking forward to the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u105	We'll find out later. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mrs Van den Berg has a lot of questions, but the answers are just on pages 2 and 3. It's actually pretty simple. The Minister says that we did not pay sufficient attention to privacy and data security. We didn't send it right, we actually did a little stupid stuff. We've given everyone access when it wasn't necessary. We can turn that off, and we can do that in such a way that this doesn't compromise the testing and the source and contact research. That's kind of dumb. Then he says that there is not enough expertise...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u107	You're not gonna read everything, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u108	No, but it's the questions Mrs Van den Berg asked. Then he says: I have to steer tighter and I do so together with the GHOR. In addition, there will be an external audit. Finally, he says that we have not implemented the December recommendations quickly enough, and we are going to do so. Those are just human traffickings that have been neglected. That's what's going on: too little steering, too little expertise, not on time, and data wasn't important? What answers do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u109	Again, VWS is the client of this project, but it is the GGD's that carry it out. For the basic things I mention, VWS shouldn't have to ask for attention. That's what an organization should pick up on its own. I want to know why that didn't happen automatically at the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u110	That's not how it works. In any case, I can tell you from my own experience that, when it comes to ICT projects, the Ministry that makes the request must make it meet all the conditions. You're gonna test that. You do not say: go ahead with a system and I hope you will offer the guarantees of your own. No, it is essential here that we fight corona together. In addition, privacy is extremely important, because it gives confidence to the citizens. From VWS it should simply have been said: this is a high priority and I assume that you will do this, this and this. Period. It's not gonna happen on its own. Nothing goes by itself in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u111	No, but what I did understand is that there was building on systems that were already there. What is the reason why the GGD, for example at the start of the project, did not say: yes, but listen, if I have to scale up this system, then there are quite different ICT risks that we need to talk about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u112	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u113	That's exactly what's going on. Everything I read that's gonna happen, it's all possible. You could have done that six months ago. I read that it has no influence on testing and on the source research. So it's just a misjudgement. For my grandmother, surely it doesn't matter if she's being scammed, that the responsibility of the GGD is the responsibility of VWS? We stand for the interests of citizens who need to see their privacy protected, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u114	I fully agree with Mr Azarkan. The citizen really doesn't care what got it. But as a chamber, we have to talk about how we can solve this and how we can prevent this kind of thing from happening again. And then we have to talk about the structures and cultures of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u115	Please continue, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u116	In September, Nieuwsuur reported that the results of the corona test and the associated personal data were accessible to co-workers of the corona test line who should not have access to it. Other colleagues have also mentioned this. The Personal Data Authority asked the GGD for clarification at the time, but no further investigation followed. We assumed that what we did then was enough to put it in order, says the supervisor. Does the Minister for Legal Protection consider that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has acted correctly in this regard? Why has the Dutch Data Protection Authority not previously put the GD under supervision? Why, for example, has the Dutch Data Protection Authority looked at the development of the app in detail, but has it not done so with such signals about a leak in a software system that tens of thousands of people could watch? Mr. Chairman. This problem must be resolved as quickly as possible. The GGD indicates that it will automatically investigate whether employees have illegally looked into private data of citizens. But when did that happen? What other measures are being taken? In what way does the Dutch Data Protection Authority become closely involved in this? Finally. We receive questions from people about the safety of their bsn number. If people find out that their data has been leaked, what is the Minister's advice to these people? Where can people go with their questions? What is possible for people who have really become victims because their bsn number has been abused? Can the Minister respond to that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you. I see Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u118	2020, last year, was a bad year for the rule of law, with SyRI banned by the judge, the supplemental affair and now again this data breach. All this had consequences for innocent civilians. The CDA has rightly said a great deal about this, with words about the trias politicians and about dualism. Those words are justified. But where are the CDA's actions? The CDA votes against motions for more supervision and more money for the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The CDA still votes for very risky data laws like the Wgs. And in this debate, Mrs Van den Berg takes a bit of the attitude of 'yes, we have to look at the different responsibilities in the chain', but she does not make it very concrete how it can really be done better where it is needed. In dealing with privacy issues, the CDA is actually much milder than in other areas. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u119	I'd like to take that away anyway. I have just mentioned the example of the app, where I think half the world has been watching the development. It was developed from the very basis of privacy. That should therefore also be the task of other systems that we are developing. We need to develop from a perspective of privacy. How can it be prevented from being abused in advance? That needs to be considered. I think that much more needs to be looked at in the development process, while we are now repairing a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u120	I think it is fine that we should talk about the Corona app and the process of six months around it. That started with the same bravure as last week at Question Time: 'We're gonna take care of it'. And then there was indeed bet on checks-and-balances, conflict was organized under the leadership of an excellent CIO and a fairly good result was achieved. Mrs Van den Berg is right about that. But I asked for something completely different. I asked: after all the great words about the rule of law, dualism and the trias politicians, is the CDA now also going to show action to ensure that citizens are protected from a data hungry and data hungry government, which is constantly making the same mistakes? That was the question I asked Mrs van den Berg. And I'd really like an answer to that. That is a little more structural than this debate, but it is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u121	Indeed, I have just mentioned with examples that it is more structural than this debate. I also mentioned the fact that, on the basis of a motion from me, the Court of Auditors is conducting a separate investigation into ICT at VWS and mutual governance. I would also like to take a more structural approach to this. In the case of new systems, we must avoid having to be repaired every time. We must pay much more attention to this at the very beginning, when we develop a system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u122	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u123	Well, I guess I'm just gonna knock it down a little bit. I ask the same question that has also been put to Mr Veldman. The CDA and the VVD have a long history of voting against motions that want more money for the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Is the CDA now willing, as Mr Veldman of the VVD has just said, to look seriously at an adequate and larger budget for the Dutch Data Protection Authority? It has become clear that this is not enough on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u124	We are seeing more and more digitalization, so I can imagine that there is a need for an authority. So, like Mr. Veldman, I'd say we should look at what's necessary. But let me take a very simple example. If you have a house where a window is broken, the lock of the door is not working properly and where no alarm system is installed, you have to call the police every now and then because something is going on. The solution isn't that we need more cops. No, the first solution is that we set up the systems much better at the base. I'd be happy to see if you might need more than you do now the Personal Data Authority, but that's step two for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mrs Van den Berg uses the same lightning rod as Mr Veldman. Of course, those systems need to be put in order by the person who created them and who manages them. But when I read what the Dutch Data Protection Authority is doing... The Dutch Data Protection Authority received 27.000 notifications of data leaks in 2019, of which the authority has 0,3%. Investigate the test method. With 99.7% of all data leaks reported, the authority can't do anything at the moment and they're not being investigated. Well, isn't it crystal clear that as an authority, you don't have enough resources to just do your job properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mrs Van den Berg has just responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u127	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Because I am concerned that you need to get that amount down, that you are doing a lot more checks-and-balances at those systems and at those institutions themselves to see how they can prevent a data breach. It's something to say "yes, it went wrong again," and you put it with the authority. You have to take care of the base. I mentioned the example of the Haga Hospital that we saw at the time: it was just not logged properly, it was not regularly looked at. You just need to see who's logged into a system and do constant checks on it. Then you can also prevent much more data leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u128	But that was... Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u129	I agree with Mrs van den Berg: you must avoid this as much as possible. But of course it will help if there is a strict authority that can tackle organisations very hard if they go wrong. That also works preventively. But if you know that in 99.7% of cases there will be no investigation... Yeah, that's not exactly a deterrent effect or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u131	So that's why my question is: if only 0.3% of the known data leaks can be investigated, doesn't the CDA think there should be more capacity so that a substantial number of data leaks can be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u132	I would also like a very brief response, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. I am happy to see how we can increase the chances of getting caught, because I think that is what Mr Hijink is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. You were ready, weren't you? I'm just gonna wait a minute. We're gonna clean up for a second. Yes, you do. You certainly belong to a risk group. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. IT and the government have been an unfortunate combination for a long time. That is not so hard to understand either, because the cartel politicians who lead such processes, like all other cartel politicians, are selected for loyalty and serving years of service, and not for quality or affinity with IT. But still, much more serious than the data breach at the GD it doesn't get. Data from millions of Dutch people were insightful for externally hired work students, who had never even consulted a vog. And not only insightful, but also exportable. From civilian service number to sensitive patient records, it's all out on the street now. How did this happen? And how is it possible that this had been known for months, but the GD hasn't done anything to close the data breach? I have a déjà vu: the debate on the supplementing affair, the resignation of the cabinet and the wounds of the victims. It's all still fresh in memory. And also in this scandal people were wondering: how is it that certain abuses are known, but nothing is done? It's identical. A lot of people have e-mailed me over the last few days: how is it that this happened, and how is it that nothing has been done about this when it was known? A lot of people who e-mailed me are afraid that their social security number will be used for identity fraud; that is possible. Or older family members who receive fake messages to transfer money to a family member. That happens. It happened in my family, too. It's really unbelievable how easy that is with this information. The government is responsible for this. I can't believe they're just gonna let that happen. This is extremely serious. And I want to hear from the minister how he's gonna solve this. What's he gonna do about it? What's he gonna do about it? How can we regain confidence in a government that, over and over again, not only makes these kinds of mistakes, but also refuses to act effectively? It is time for a change in thinking in the field of IT: privacy by design. It's more than just a slogan. 17 million Dutch people are entitled to their personal data to be treated with care and confidentiality. I would like to know from the whole cabinet how vulnerable other systems are to similar problems. Has an integral walk-through been done yet? The alarm bells must start ringing. We need to figure this out across the board, track it down and solve it. And then there is the painful point of this minister's personal failure. After the lack of tests, the secretly modified guidelines around mouth cups in nursing homes with a dramatic effect, the failed source and contact research into the hospitality closure that is completely unnecessary, after the already endless, pointless and probably even counterproductive lockdown, after the fact that De Jonge found time to sing with Jair on Christmas but could not prevent us from vaccinating as the very last one in the EU, after the pointless curfew and the manipulated vaccination rates, now also this. Trust is gone, and the question arises as to how much damage we are going to allow this outgoing minister to do to the Netherlands. Today we are talking again for hours about this privacy leak, yet another problem, yet another blunder in this cabinet, of this minister. The real issue, of course, is that the cabinet has been causing irreparable damage to our country for years and continues to do so joyfully, even now that the cabinet is decommissioned. How are we gonna get the trust back? I think there's only one way: we need another health minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u137	There's a need for a slightly longer suspension than we're used to, so I'm suspending the sitting until 1:45 p.m. Then both ministers will have the opportunity to answer your questions. I'm suspending the meeting until... Oh, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u138	I am, of course, not against thoroughness, especially after last week's oral Question Time. So I'm in favour of a long answer time from the minister if he needs it. But we also have the limitation of the debate. I know what it often turns out to be: almost no more interruptions. Then the Chamber is restricted in the possibility to ask for further information on certain parts. I would like to hear from the President how we are going to do that. You look difficult, but I think you understand me very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u139	I always look hard when you take the floor, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u140	That's painful, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u141	What exactly do you ask the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u142	I can hear Mrs Agema say very well: will we have enough room in the limited time to ask for a number of things? The point is that we can't stay on the surface and ask around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u143	That also requires something from the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u144	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u145	Exactly. How did you know so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u146	And it's not hard to look at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u147	Exactly, too. The interruptions consist of short questions and brief comments, not repetitions. How many questions were asked? Questions were answered in writing. You've read them all. Indeed, last night. So you should not ask a question that has already been answered. How about we make a deal like that? That's it. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 1:45 p.m.
