ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	Today we are going to work on the defence budget. Welcome to the Minister, to all my colleagues and to the people who are following this debate, even though following this debate is a little more difficult than we would like at the moment: via Politics24, not via the livestream. It's out; everything possible is being done to fix it. That doesn't change the fact that we're gonna start anyway. I agree with you that you all have six first-term interruptions, six short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	As the first speaker, I have noted Mr Fritsma of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the PVV Group would like to express its deep appreciation for all Defence personnel. They do great work, often under difficult circumstances. They deserve all the respect for that. Therefore, the criticism that the PVV will make during this debate is not directed at the Defence personnel, but solely at the political direction of Defence. Having said that, in the field of Defence 2021 was of course the year of Afghanistan, the year of the western and Dutch withdrawal from that country, of the sad takeover of power by the Taliban, the year of the chaotic evacuations from Kabul and the subsequent departure of two ministers. Reason enough to keep a few important key questions under review again. What's DOD for? What do we want our military, our money and our resources for? What can we do, what can we not achieve? In short, what priorities should we set? For the PVV, the findings are crystal clear: Afghanistan has once again proven that Defence should no longer be used for foreign missions. This is clearer than ever before. To illustrate this, I would like to point out the following three points. First of all, the effectiveness of these foreign missions. It's often completely missing. Afghanistan was no exception. A country that has been poisoned by tribalism, corruption and Islam is simply not transforming into a democratic rule of law according to western model. That is why we must never pursue such a naive concept of credulability again. The second point is that foreign missions have become impossible, because the Netherlands has wrongly made themselves responsible for the consequences of all those distant wars. This has already been seen, for example, in the case of damages paid by the Netherlands as a result of bombing, and since Afghanistan the precedent has been created that, after a failed mission, anyone who has helped Dutch soldiers, aid organisations and journalists must be brought to the Netherlands and obtained a residence permit. That is a wrong approach, which cannot be repeated. Reception in the region should also have been the focus here. Mr. Chairman. The third, and perhaps the most important, reason to stop foreign missions is the fact that, first and foremost, defence must provide security in our own country, for the protection of our own territory. That's hard enough, as we know. Therefore, the PVV calls on the cabinet to stop focusing the future deployment of Defense on foreign missions. Therefore, do not use Defence for the current task, which has been described as promoting the international legal order. This has become obsolete, impossible and no longer appropriate to the priorities to be set.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr Stoffer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm listening with a slightly uncomfortable feeling anyway. Because this sounds easy to say. But I believe that the task we carry out internationally is a constitutional one. If you call it that, does that mean that you are going to make a proposal to amend the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	Article 90 of the Constitution does say that the Netherlands must make an effort to promote the international legal order, but that is not linked to defence. Moreover, if you want to take Article 90 seriously, there is every reason not to do so, for example through diplomatic means, political sanctions and economic sanctions, you can also shape the issue of promoting the international legal order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	This sounds wonderful, but the reality in this world is that it's not all that beautiful. If evil things are done somewhere with force, as we see in this world, you will also have to show counter-force. Does the PVV really think that you can do that constitutional task by trying to influence something diplomatically somewhere? Or is it just naivety at the top?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	It's a matter of priorities. The Minister recently indicated in a letter that Defence is no longer able to respond to the dangers that surround the Netherlands. If we cannot even properly shape our first core task, namely protecting our own territory, as is currently the case, it is madness to send soldiers to Mali or to send a gender advisor to Lebanon, as Defence is doing now. It's a matter of priorities. The first core task is to protect our own territory. We need to organize that properly now. On those foreign missions that you are talking about, I would like to reiterate that defence is not linked to Article 90 of the Constitution. In addition: look at the effectiveness. In Mali, nothing has been achieved. The General Court has put a stop to the efforts of the Netherlands in Mali. And what happens? Now we're going to send soldiers to Mali again. So that's not how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	The last question. This is very easy to solve. We have a defense vision. There's content in there, there's amounts in there. If we take this whole thing seriously, take the Constitution seriously and take it seriously by adding a few billion to it, as in the SGP election programme at least, we are out of the question. Can the PVV support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	That depends. The PVV doesn't want to write a blank check for the DOD. We do indeed want to shape this first core task well. The NATO alliance is very important for the PVV. But we do not want to pay for, for example, an EU army. We don't want to pay for diversity policy within the Defense Department. We do not want to waste too much money on the JSF, and certainly not on foreign missions. First of all, if we make sure that the money is spent wisely, we'll come up with a whole end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would just like to say to Mr Stoffer that we have six interruptions per person. Very good. Then Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	If there were a voter for jihadists, they would definitely be in the PVV. First, the PVV came up with the proposal to make it possible for people here to wave an IS flag with impunity. And now the PVV comes up with the proposal not to attack Islamic terrorists anymore where they are, but to wait for them to come here. Because the PVV is suggesting that we don't go on a mission anymore. That proposal is being made here. That is, of course, a gift to Islamic terrorists. I really don't understand why the PVV can make that proposal here. How can I reconcile that with the sharp words that are always used here in this Chamber, including by your foreman, Mr Wilders, when it comes to condemning Islamic terrorism? It's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	Perhaps the VVD does not know what is currently entering the Netherlands. Those terrorists need to be combated. You want to do it on the other side of the world, but they're already here. Look at all those terrorists from Syria who have entered the Netherlands and who are now regularly in front of the courts, who have been taken off the streets in Ter Apel, in Zeeland, in The Hague, you name it. So the terrorists you're talking about are already here. They come across the border uncontrolled and receive residence permits. You can stop that. The foreign commitment you are talking about has never prevented those war criminals and those terrorists from entering the Netherlands. So you have to protect national security. You have to stop them at the border. That's what the DOD can do. I would add one more comment: it is quite something that the VVD says that the PVV helps jihadists, because look at the practice. What did the Cabinet do with the VVD as a government party? There have been demonstrably jihadist organizations supported in Syria. So you're talking about dealing with terrorists, but what did you do? You helped them! Development money went to a Palestinian terrorist. Jabhat al-Shamiya, that extremist jihadist club in Syria, has been supported with Dutch tax money. You, and not the PVV, support terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think it's a very naive plea that I'm hearing here today. After 11 September, we saw that Al-Qaeda did not have a breeding ground in the United States, but in Afghanistan. We also saw the attacks in Paris and Madrid. IS did not have its origins on the European mainland. They were often terrorists trained in the Middle East. It's a battle that's never finished, but we've been pretty successful at it so far. I can't wait to see how the PVV will tackle terrorism in the future, Mr. Fritsma. Will this only be dealt with in the Netherlands? Do you really think that's gonna be successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Boswijk refers to attacks. We have indeed seen terrible attacks all over Europe, in Brussels, in Paris, in Berlin, you name it all. Do you know why that is? That's because these terrorists have traveled to Western Europe with the flow of asylum. The open border policy, for which the CDA is responsible, has ensured that anyone who calls the word 'asylum' is simply received, given an asylum procedure and can enter. That's where the problem is. If you take the PVV's vision of guarding and closing our borders, you can stop that asylum flow and those terrorists. That's how you avoid the attacks. Again, all these foreign missions, all these failures in Mali and Afghanistan, have not been able to prevent terrorists from coming in here. The Netherlands cannot put things in order everywhere in the world. That has been proven time and time again. We can keep our own country safe. We can stop the flow of asylum and terrorists here at the border. We must use the scarce resources we have for national security. That is of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	The PVV's vision is largely in line with many views from the Middle East, in the sense that it is still a bit medieval. We can no longer build a wall around the Netherlands so that no one will enter. You know it's extremely complicated to keep a line closed. An effective method of combating terrorism is to do so at source. I think we are doing this relatively well in the Netherlands. That's why we did take out those rotten apples. We have been very successful in this regard in international context, both in Afghanistan and quite recently in Iraq. I can't believe you don't see that. I think it is extremely naive to think that we can only manage it here as the Netherlands, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is naive to think that the Netherlands can put things in order anywhere in the world. You're talking about Afghanistan yourself. Afghanistan has been poisoned by corruption and Islam. There's no honor in that. You call it "a successful mission." Are you kidding me? That mission has completely failed. The Taliban have taken over power. The missions abroad have had no effect on the improvement of safety in the Netherlands. I took the list of terrorists who just came to the Netherlands and got a residence permit because of your open border policy. Those rotten apples weren't fished out in time. They came through the screening, they got a residence permit and then they were only, by chance, I don't know, picked from the street. So commitment to national security and national border surveillance is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	I was just going to say that you could continue with your speech, but Mrs Belhaj has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	It took me a while to figure out exactly what they're saying. I think Mr Fritsma is creating a one-to-one relationship between the mission there and jihadism in the Netherlands. But did Mr Fritsma know that many travellers, the IS fighters, are simply products of Dutch society, are just Dutch people who went there? So why are you suggesting that it's all about people who came here from there? Mr Fritsma knows that's not true, right? He's reading AIVD reports, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes. That is a valid point: there are also jihadists who grew up here. But the great agreement between all terrorists is an Islamic background. We must therefore ensure that the extravagants, who have sometimes grown up here, cannot come back and that no more jihadists enter the Netherlands. Once again, the agreement is an Islamic background. Everywhere Islam rules, there is war, violence and misery. It is an evil ideology, an ideology that calls for violence. It's one big call for violence. I am pleased that you are raising this point, because the Department of Defense must ensure that we keep that Islam, that evil ideology, out of the door. The best way to do this is to stand at the border, to stop the influx of asylum, to stop terrorists, to call off the Refugee Convention, to overturn the foreign policy. Then you really keep the dangers out of the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	This is rhetorically also very handsome, but this also applies: if I listen carefully, the PVV has found a way to say something about Islam but not to talk about people who are Islamic. Mr Fritsma knows damn well that there are different streams within Islam and that there are morons who do the most bizarre, extreme, evil things with a Qur'an, a Bible, a thora or any ideology. So it's not about what book it is or what faith it is. Why does the PVV refuse to be just careful in its terms and to carefully address those idiots who use any religious or ideological book to suppress and murder people? Surely that would be the way to have a full-fledged conversation about what we all hate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	...that people oppress and kill other people? My question is whether Mr Fritsma agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Van Haga, you would like to speak, but first a reply from Mr Fritsma to Mrs Belhaj's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	It's not a few idiots, unfortunately. I would remind you once again of the research carried out by Professor Ruud Koopmans: 11% of Muslims in the Netherlands are willing to use violence from their own ideology and 70% of Muslims, including in the Netherlands, consider their own Islamic rules more important than the rules of the country in which they live. These aren't just any idiots. This is about a very large group of people. You can also see Islamization in the Netherlands leading to major problems, such as integration problems and security problems. So when you say "the more Islam you bring into the Netherlands, the better," I think that's an incomprehensible vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Van Haga has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	I thought we were here for the defense budget. A lot of soldiers are watching this debate. Now we see a small debate on Islam. I find it all moving, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	Sure. Your point is my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	...I find it really offensive. I think this belongs in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	Your point is my point. I was just about to make that point. Mrs. Belhaj, I don't know if you'd like to ask another follow-up question. But think about what we have just exchanged with Mr Van Haga: today we are talking about the defence budget. The budget for Home Affairs, integration and all these things, the budget for Justice: they will all be dealt with, if I am right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	I fully understand that. But I don't think I'm the person you should address, but the person who chooses. I believe that you may speak in plenary about what you wish to talk about,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u33	... and that is the ideology of the PVV. Finally, I have a question about the relationship with Afghanistan. Mr Fritsma expressly started with: everything I say now is not about the soldiers doing day in and day out of work. I thought: nice, that's what I have in my speech and I agree with that. But Mr Fritsma has just said that this mission is total nonsense; he has used his own words to do so. That is a real blow to the face of the many soldiers who worked day in, day out to save tens of thousands of lives there. The fact that the outcome is that the Taliban is now in power does not mean that the commitment that has been made has saved hundreds of thousands of people, girls could go to school, women had the right to think for themselves again... Surely those are our Dutch soldiers? You don't support our Dutch military at all. You call that very easily, but in the end you are incredibly hurting them by disqualifying this mission as "unsuccessful." Does Mr Fritsma agree with me that, if you think you should stand behind the military, you should not talk nonsense and prove otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u34	I assume that Mrs Belhaj herself has spoken to the military, like all the spokesmen here. A lot of soldiers have also been very critical of the construction mission in Afghanistan in particular. The initial mission to fight Al-Qaeda was useful. Al Qaeda had to leave. A good contribution has been made to this. This was also supported by the PVV at the time. When that went into a construction mission, it went wrong. Then that left-wing creative thinking came around the corner. But there's been no success in that. Of course, Dutch soldiers went there with the best of intentions. But there are also soldiers who said: I did not become military to paint mosques in Afghanistan. Again, it's the political direction of the Defense Department where it went wrong. Of course, I don't blame the Dutch military. They have done their best and done good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. I've had a lot of things reviewed in the event of interruption. Still, about border surveillance and what is happening in Belarus. From the border with Poland there is another massive influx of asylum to this side. This proves once again that there is a need for the Defense Department to close the borders and guard the borders. Mr. Chairman. As far as the internal organisation is concerned, wrong priorities are set in the case of the Defense Department. The last low point here is that Defence has fallen prey to the diversity cult. Apparently, all our soldiers need to be made wok, because they will receive all kinds of diversity and inclusiveness courses from next year on. Does the cabinet really think that this is the most urgent issue to be dealt with within the Ministry of Defence? While military personnel are heavily underpaid and Defence is heavily understaffed, money and attention goes to this politically correct nonsense, which really nobody is waiting for. In this context, the Minister is talking about a Defence-wide cultural change, but all that is really needed is a cabinet-wide cultural change. It must begin with the end of this wretched tragedy of diversity. I'd like this commitment. Mr. Chairman. We also need to talk again about the most expensive defence investment ever: the purchase of the F-35 aircraft. From the beginning it was a headache file and that pain only gets worse. The Netherlands has spent billions of euros on this JSF project. With that money, they just bought defective planes. The latest progress report indicates that no less than 875 aircraft failures have been detected. 875! That is a shocking number of shortcomings, which also does not diminish. The cabinet has been working for a long time to remove all these defects as 'child diseases', but this qualification has never been appropriate and has certainly not been appropriate at this stage. Children's diseases disappear. They don't increase in numbers as you get older. In the end, the JSF has given us a typical VVD product: unreliable, noisy and a disaster for taxpayers. Mr. Chairman. On that last point, the financial side is becoming increasingly worrying. Operating costs rise and cost ceilings are raised. There is a new memorandum of understanding indicating that the cost ceiling for the Netherlands will be adjusted from EUR 600 million to EUR 1.4 billion. What's going on here, I'm asking the Minister. It is high time to pull the emergency brake, I say to the cabinet and, by the way, to the Chamber. There is a need to intervene in order to limit the damage while we still can. This means at least that the last order of nine additional JSF devices must be cancelled free of charge. To that end, I call on the Minister. Those nine planes weren't supposed to be there at first. Nor should we want them with the knowledge we have today about all the shortcomings and the cost overruns. Mr. Chairman. In view of the time, I conclude my contribution by saying that the Netherlands needs a strong and healthy military force, a military force that puts national security first. Better choices are needed than those currently being made. The PVV will continue to work for this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u37	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden, VVD, has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not often that the government submits a legislative proposal, stating openly in one breath that it is not enough to fulfil the constitutional mandate of the same government. However, this exceptional situation is now taking place. There is not a word of Spanish in the constitutional mandate of Article 97 of the Constitution, to which we, as Members of Parliament, have all sworn faithfully: 'For the sake of defence and in order to protect the interests of the Kingdom, and for the sake of the maintenance of the international legal order, there is a military force'. However, the Demissionary Secretary of Defense writes that Defence is unable to fulfil the tasks it considers necessary to carry out its constitutional tasks in full and to fail to comply with agreements with allies. We should not run away from reality, but dare to face it and appoint it, just as the commanders of the armies did earlier in Trouw and this minister recently in De Telegraaf. Mr. Chairman. The so-called peace dividend that emerged after the Cold War was not only used up, but turned into a security loan. But there's no such thing as security on credit. Security on credit means speculating that it is not bad with threats to national security or that our allies will solve it for us. A bigger gift we can hardly give our opponents. Freedom is anything but invulnerable. The mission to protect what is dear to us is only fulfillable with a military force that stands there when it is necessary. More and more people are seeing this happy. The military assistance around COVID-19 and the flood in Limburg showed how valuable the army is in the fight against crises and disasters. It is not for nothing the third main constitutional task. However, in order to protect what is dear to us, we need to look above all at the threats across the border. And then we see that these threats increasingly literally and figuratively look back. There are espionage satellites floating and flying over the Netherlands. Sometimes Russian ships hang on the North Sea over Internet cables that transport 95% of our data traffic for days. Reports of cyber attacks in a way that could potentially seriously affect payments and water, food or energy supply are increasing. The quiet view of the North Sea is thus treacherous. This was also the subject of an interesting report commissioned by the Royal Navy last week. The threat is literally beneath the surface. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the Defence vision, which is also referred to a great deal in this budget. In the Defence vision, which is also leading this budget, it says that the main tasks of the Defense Department are intertwined. That still sounds too much like "everything is important." At this point, the Defence vision has always been too vague and can use an actualization blow. I'd like to explain. The US, through NATO, remains unabatedly involved in European security, particularly in deterring the military attack by Russia, but the US is also focusing its attention on China. This means that European NATO partners themselves must provide a greater share of the joint capacity and reaction force at the eastern border. Kennedy preceded them, but three American presidents in a row have now made it clear that they are serious: Europe must take more responsibility in the military field itself. On the other hand, at the same time around Europe we see the threats of great powers growing, with in the north Russian and Chinese claims in the Arctic, in the east the annexation of Crimea and the war in eastern Ukraine and in the North Sea Russian naval ships. At the same time, medium-sized countries such as Turkey and Azerbaijan do not hesitate to defend their interests around Europe by military means, and we see directly at the European external borders that migrants are being used as weapons by the human-smuggling dictator of Belarus. Mr. Chairman. If you let the increasing threats and the declining American willingness to take the chestnuts out of the fire for Europe on a military level work on you, and then the mission to enable Defense to protect what is dear to us is not serious, if you are that person, then you do not live in the Netherlands, but in dreamland. Mr. Chairman. Since Europe's security and interests are no longer easy to pass on to the Americans, I would ask the Minister that the centre of gravity in the establishment of the future military force should no longer shift to the main task one. Contributing to and practicing with NATO reaction forces and large-scale military exercises are therefore increasing in importance. The Netherlands should continue to participate in missions in the highest spectrum of violence. Future investments in the military force should be made as a matter of priority in terms of the VVD to main task one, taking into account NATO's recommendation. We are looking at nation-building missions on the basis of this reality and because of Afghanistan in future more realistic and critical than before. If this is the result of more than 2,000 billion dollars and twenty years of large-scale military deployment by the US alone, then that requires realism. What is the military analysis as to whether the main task is increasing? I would like a reflection from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mrs Bromet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u40	I shall go back to the beginning of Mr Van Wijngaarden's speech. He says there: it is quite remarkable, because we have a Constitution that says that you have to do something, but the budget law that we are discussing today does not really comply with the Constitution. My question to Mr Van Wijngaarden is: how much money will be needed to meet that objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u41	Of course, a lot has already appeared about this, so Mrs Bromet asks about the familiar road. If you want to meet the NATO standard, you're talking about about about 5 billion; if you want to reach the European NATO average, you're talking about 4 billion. The Minister also mentioned this in De Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u42	But this is a budget debate, in which the largest party here, the largest coalition party, speaks about a budget that is therefore not satisfactory. What is Mr Van Wijngaarden going to do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u43	Look, that budget is not enough, those are the words of Mrs Bromet. What I have said is that we see that the Constitution sets out an ambition, sets down an assignment, and at the same time we see that we have only limited success in achieving that ambition. I think it's a good thing that that's open-and-shut here on the table, too. And what are we going to do about it? I'd say read our election program. That's where we stand. And the forming parties are now on the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u44	I think it's too easy. So you either have a budget that meets the goals that you think are important, and then you agree, or you feel that there is not enough money available, and then you come up with an amendment as a Member of Parliament. Does Mr Van Wijngaarden intend to table an amendment, or is he okay with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u45	The world is not always binary, so it is not always whether this or that, as Mrs Bromet makes appear here. There's something between black and white. And what we are indicating here is where the constitutional mission lies. And what I would like to see is that we are together, and I also look at Mrs Bromet's report together and agree that on the one hand you see that threats on the edges of Europe are increasing and, on the other hand, the Americans are gradually withdrawing from the military domain. And that this also means something to us, and that this should also support GroenLinks' additional investments in Defence rather than always being critical, because that is how I know Mrs Bromet's group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u46	In my own term, I will tell you what GroenLinks' vision is and how much money we are making available for it. I just... Why I am doing this interruption is because there is a very nice story coming from the VVD, a critical story, without anything going to change after this budget review. And then screens with all words like "yes, we are realistic" and that GroenLinks wouldn't be, or not constructively, that's bullshit. We stand here as a Chamber to assess a budget. Mr Van Wijngaarden starts by saying that that law does not, in my opinion, comply with the Constitution, but does not, in his view, comply with it. And then I ask, what are we going to do about it, as a room? Or what is the VVD going to do for proposals? Then we can take a serious look at that. And then nothing comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u47	I am very happy to hear that GroenLinks will also come forward with proposals to invest more in Defence. I look forward to seeing them with a great deal of interest. I would just like to say that we now have a outgoing cabinet, there are parties forming, so let us not fool each other here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr President, I am going to devote one more interruption to this, because we are very seriously discussing a budget for the next year. And I'm really sick and tired of hearing about: we're forming. Then we might as well go home, and then we'll find out what the forming parties are coming up with, and then we'll wait for the budget to be approved until the new cabinet arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u49	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u50	That's right. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yes, but of course Mrs Bromet has a point. We are talking about the budget here today, or not. And if the forming parties keep saying "yes, they should settle that in the formation," then we might as well go home. At the same time, I note that the VVD and countless others, including the minister, are screaming murder and fire about the great needs of the Defense Department: "you need to add 4 billion now!'. I've been browsing: the VVD invests about 2.5 billion in Defense in the Central Planning Bureau's account, so they don't even make their own plea. I do not think that is very strong, but even more important is the question that Mr Van Wijngaarden just asked the Minister: what lessons does the government draw from the war in Afghanistan? Because, of course, that's what we're really about: what we do with that money, doing missions. And he asked a very good question: what lessons does the government draw from the fatally failed war in Afghanistan, with countless victims and billions of dollars spent on it? What lessons does Mr Van Wijngaarden draw from that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u52	First of all, I count my blessings, because I really like that I get the question here from the SP and GroenLinks where is the VVD's amendment for more money for Defence. So I count my blessings. The honest story is, and maybe that's not the story everyone's waiting for, that's being formed right now. As a matter of fact, it's been formed and we've been at it for a while. So, no, that amendment is not coming now. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, I understand that the SP is asking that question. In one breath I also hear from the SP that it failed fatally there. Of course, that's not what I said. I think we should also try to do justice to the military who have worked there. I know that Mr Van Dijk wants to do the same. It is also important to distinguish that there have been many different missions in Afghanistan, including with different missions. The idea has always been: Al-Qaeda out and the Taliban underneath. Of course, the first, preventing Afghanistan from becoming a platform for international terrorism, has succeeded. Nor should we pretend that everything has now failed and is being thrown away as far as the years after and during the construction mission are concerned. Only, where there has been so much commitment and so many military risks for a long time, and I am not even talking so much about money, but first of all about the military sacrifices and efforts that have been made there, I do think that if this is the result, we should look more realistically and soberly at building missions. So I will make it a little more precise, if Mr Van Dijk agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u53	No misunderstanding: Mr Van Wijngaarden is right; I was in Uruzgan and in Kunduz and I also have great respect for the deployment of those soldiers there and the construction mission that was carried out on paper and which you also saw at micro level. But, of course, this is about the political question, the political goals that were set with the mission towards the war in Afghanistan. You also know what President Joe Biden said: we weren't there to build the country, we just wanted to fight terrorism. It's been spent billions of dollars. Hundreds of thousands have been killed. Millions of refugees have emerged from it. Mr Boswijk also said something like that, that the mission in Afghanistan was a great success. I understand that you want to support the military and I support it on its own, but you cannot declare the mission and efforts that the Netherlands has made in Afghanistan with the best will in the world to be a success. It's just a tragic failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u54	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u55	In fact, it was a very bad war. Does Mr Van Wijngaard share the conclusion that it has become a tragic failure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u56	I think we should be careful anyway with too big words like "it's a bad war" and that sort of thing. I mentioned Kabul's fall as a black page earlier. It can be seen as a Saigon squared. We have discussed it at length before and it will come back to us. There's gonna be reports on it, too. So we're not done talking about it either. If we want to do justice to the military and the efforts that have been made there, I know that the SP also wants to do so, we must try to look carefully at this, including where it goes in terms of qualifications. However, as far as the political stance towards the future on so-called nationbuilding missions is concerned, I believe that it forces sobriety and realism, even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr Van Wijngaarden began his speech with a very nice sentence, namely: there is no security on credit. I have taken this into account and come to the conclusion that this is exactly what the VVD has done, even at the time I was still part of the group. We had the harsh NATO statement that we would spend 2% of our GDP on Defense. We never kept to that, not once. Even the VVD election programme says that we want to grow a little cowardly towards the European NATO average. And if the economic recovery is going well, we may be able to do so even faster. How can you use big words and ultimately show nothing in the results about working towards that 2% standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u58	We see first of all, of course, that the previous cabinet has already started investing in Defence. In the coalition agreement, the government released 1.4 billion for Defence, another 162 million for the Spring Paper 2019 and then 0.4 billion for the Millions note and the Hermans motion, despite the fact that the cabinet is a missionary. Is that enough? No. Mr Van Haga and I agree on that. But is it a start? Yes. I think that when it comes to the NATO standard, it is true that we of the NATO members belong to the five countries with the poorest defence budget. Nor do we threaten to abide by NATO agreements. Mr. Chairman. I've been thinking about putting on a T-shirt with the number 26 on it today, because that's our place in that ranking. However, it did not seem appropriate to me, just as it is appropriate for the gentlemen here to wear a tie when dealing with the budget, to come in here in a T-shirt with number 26 on it. I know you're attached to decorum, too, Mr. Chairman, so I didn't do that. But if you'd like it, I'd be happy to do it again. That is where we are now in the NATO ranking: we are in the 26th place. I therefore ask the Minister what our contribution is. There is now a bit of lyricism in the explanatory statement about our contribution, but I think that the cabinet will in future simply include the current ranking in the explanatory statement on the budget, an up-to-date ranking, and I have looked up the Dutch word and that is ranking for all countries with spending on Defence as a percentage of their GNP. I hope that Mr Van Haga will support that. Mr Van Haga is right that at the time in Wales I think it was in Newport that we formally committed to heading towards 2024 towards that 2% and spending at least 20% on new equipment. That was also promised by our Prime Minister there. So I think we share the same ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u59	Of course, that's good news. They're all beautiful words again. Indeed, Mark Rutte said at a NATO summit in 2018 that we would do so as soon as possible. None of these promises came true. In the Defence vision 2035, it says again that we are moving towards that 2% as soon as possible. Barbara Visser even said that there is 6 billion in overdue maintenance. So the money is also very easy to spend. Then my question remains: how is it possible that we are apparently in complete agreement, Mr Van Wijngaarden is the Defence Spokesman, and that nothing is going to happen in the implementation? I promise you that if we are formed again, we are going to leave the VVD there all the time, because we are not going to go to that 2%. We promise that every time, but it doesn't happen. Once again, we agree, but you must respond to this. You don't expect us to actually make it, because that's never happened before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u60	First of all, I have just indicated what the last cabinet, which is now outgoing, has already done. I do not think that we should be too scornful about that either. I saw again in the NRC today the words "wood-rope army" and so on. I also think that we are seriously undermining the investments that have been made. If, for example, you look at what has already been put down and has been invested in the Defense Cyber Command, then we should not underestimate it. In short, the way up is already in place. It's not like nothing's gonna happen, like they just said. But as far as I'm concerned, we're going to go up that road. We'll see what the formation gets. Mr Van Haga apparently has a glass ball. I don't have one. I think we should just wait and see. But I think we share the same ambition: the only way is up. I told you, let's do that ranking. I hope that Mr Van Haga will support that idea. And of course you still have the idea of that percentage. This naturally depends on the size of the economy and the GDP. So I really want to know what the Minister would think of a rule that defence expenditure should always be in line with the economy. That is what we are doing, for example, with the EU's payments and with the OS budget. The question is whether he thinks that's a logical idea. Otherwise, Mr Van Haga and I will never be happy, because then you will always be following that rising economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u61	Finally. No, I do not have a glass ball. But if it's never happened before, it's very unlikely that it will happen now. We can look into history. Then we see that defence has now been put into a depravable state, among other things through promises of this kind that have never been followed by deeds. I've been told by the military that they're desperate. They're desperate about us, about the politicians, about the directors. Nice talk but it never ends up!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u62	I'm looking at Mrs. Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u63	I hear Mr Van Wijngaarden saying that the way up has been used. That's right. The cabinet has definitely invested money in Defense over the past four years. But what worries me is that we do not see that this has actually produced anything when it comes to the army's readiness. There's still 20% staff shortage. There is less than 50% material readiness. What is Mr Van Wijngaard's assessment of the effectiveness of the spending of the hundreds of millions that have gone to the defence sector in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u64	I think you should look specifically at each investment. I share the concerns about readiness. I visited the Defense Cyber Command in Leeuwarden with a number of members recently. If you get a presentation there, you can see that in terms of readiness, know-how and what is built up there, it is precisely because of additional investments by the Defense Department that very good results have been achieved. So I don't think we should brush that away either. On the other hand, after the Cold War and then the biggest economic crisis after the Second World War, there has been substantial cuts in defence. I have already mentioned this in the debate on the annual report that it was in some respects too far-reaching. That means you have to come a long way now. I also heard Mr Boswijk say that this morning: they are coming a long way, so there are some things that are still in the context of operating shortages and delayed maintenance, which does not immediately translate into a better readiness. As it were, you have to get out of the minus first in order to get back in the plus. That's what I meant by the credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u65	"First out of minus to get back in the plus," I'll remember! What you can see is that earlier on in terms of budget cuts, the cheese-shaving method has been applied, and that has now been invested in new additional capacities, rather than removing the backlogs that were already there. My question is then: no matter what amount the new cabinet, which is currently being negotiated, has for Defence, what is the priority for the VVD? If there's one thing you need to invest in right now, what's that? I hope the answer is "staff."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u66	With regard to maintenance, I would like to say one more thing, as a very good example of how the cuts have gone through. Then it's about the barracks. At many barracks it has become cheaper to break them down than to maintain them. I think that touches on the point made by Mrs Piri. How come not all investments end up when ready? When it comes to that extra space, yes, of course staff is an important task. But so there are a lot of important tasks. I would also like to comment on the human resources model. It's known that that's just antique. So there is a very big change in approach, but that also applies to the capacities that the Netherlands is now failing to fulfil, according to NATO, in order to fulfil our role as a reliable ally. So if you look at where the challenges lie, I don't think it's either-or just and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u67	Finally, I would like to return to the question raised earlier by Mr van GroenLinks. We are now discussing next year's budget. I think this is a serious debate. We do not have to wait and see what comes out of the coalition talks; it is now about the money available for next year's Defense. If you see that the priority is not now laid down in this budget among the staff, that there are no choices made, for example when it comes to the disposal of property from Defence, is this a budget that Mr Van Wijngaarden is satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u68	In my view, I have just indicated in very clear terms where our concerns with regard to defence are. So if you ask me if I am satisfied with this, it would be a bad thing to say everything I said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u69	Please continue. Excuse me, you were still working on your answer. It seemed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u70	That is the short answer, Mr President, and I know you like short answers. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at cyber. The Netherlands and allies are dealing with a grey area between war and peace in which countries such as Russia and China constantly attack us but do not cross the border of a poor attack. We have the people, ways and means to fight back in addition to detecting cyberattacks. But the question is: how and when can we use it? As far as the VVD is concerned, the cabinet should work with similar countries for clear rules or commitment in the retaliation of cyber attacks. Can the Minister undertake to do this? With regard to the Defence Cyber Commando, I also ask for a commitment in the way of recruiting, selecting and rewarding personnel. Because of the atypical part of the labour market under which the Defence Cyber Commando falls, I ask them, as it were, to have a fully independent military unit recruit, select and reward staff themselves. Is the Minister prepared to take this up? If so, at what time? I would like to oppose the taboo atmosphere surrounding certain aspects of defence policy, namely the defence industry. The defence industry is not the big bad wolf, but a hub of technical innovation with many applications that we benefit from every day. Think of microwaves, navigation, the combustion engine in your car, duct tape, barbed wire and, oh yeah, the Internet. The VVD is proud of the Dutch defence industry. An army without weapons is not an army and a country that has to buy all its weapons systems across the border is not smart or even stupid. That country will become strategically completely dependent on abroad. I would therefore like to draw attention once again to the initiative paper of VVD and CDA, which allows Dutch companies to hold a position in the joint European development of defence systems, by abandoning the unilateral, erratic handling of export licences. Each country with its own export policy is old-fashioned and plays into the hands of countries that work well together. The Netherlands must respond to the opportunities offered by cooperation. It is also bizarre that some banks, such as the Rabobank, exclude companies from the defence industry. It is the Defense Department that should be able to avert or repay a cyber attack on bank assets, but the companies that make the systems that Defense has to work with are not welcome at those banks. Can the Minister reflect on this? Can the cabinet discuss this with these banks? Demonizing the defence industry is morally decadent and a form of moral self-satisfaction. Stop it! Mr. Chairman. I'll be with the drones. The VVD doesn't want a taboo on unmanned weapons systems. There must be a clear vision of when these systems are of added value for the Dutch armed forces, so that they can be purchased if they so wish, or, for example, can be chosen to arm unmanned Reaperdrones. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that the balancing framework and the threat picture are quickly shared with the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. From the written consultation of Staff and Material, I have two points to make. First of all, the staff. I just said something about that, but I'm gonna do it a little better now. The pay house is just like many barracks: decayed, crooked and dated. To do something about that, we need money. This is something for the forming parties and not something to settle in this debate. Apart from the payment, you need to find the people, too. There is a remarkable paradox. Most of the people who want to recruit the Defense Department live in the area where the Defense Department is the least visible, namely the Randstad. It is therefore good to read in the answers to questions from the VVD that the cabinet recognises that a new barracks close to or in the Randstad could be beneficial for the recruitment of military personnel. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the delay in submarine replacement and the steps taken by the Ministry to prevent further delay. I am assured that virtually nothing is as complex as the construction of a submarine. It seems to be more complex than the construction of a space station or a Joint Strike Fighter. I believe so, but apparently there is one exception to this, namely the Dutch administrative selection procedure to determine who can build the submarine. It is now longer than the Second World War. During this period of time, horses were switched to tanks in the last century and a fighter aircraft was designed that could operate from England above German airspace. The current delay has nothing to do with the construction of submarines, because that construction has yet to begin. This delay is a bit embarrassing as far as the VVD is concerned. The Defense Material Organization should re-establish all sails in order to achieve a substantial acceleration and intensification of the process. If no, it also raises questions about the functioning of the service as a whole. The replacement of the Walrus class is a tough test case, a matter of honor. The entire Defence Material Process is the result of the replacement of the previous generation of submarines. If the service needs more people or resources, the VVD will be happy to hear it. What would be really expensive is that we no longer have submarines and submarines, because delay is stacked on delay. This delay must therefore remain one-off. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? The investigation that the Minister has now carried out into the delay is, according to the written consultation, carried out by the Ministry's Head of Finance and Control. At the same time, the Minister also says that he wants to stick to the current procedure with three candidates, while making sure that this procedure once again causes delays. A yard is less likely to share secrets with a project team that also talks to competitors, we hear. As far as the VVD is concerned, the cabinet must do more to speed up the selection phase, where possible. Without taboos, can we look at how to speed up competitive dialogue and look at alternative scenarios for the approach? Is it true that the costs of continuing with the current Walrus class are now covered from the purchase budget for the new Walrus class? How logical, realistic and sensible is that really? In addition, the members of the VVD have some questions about the guarantee of strategic autonomy and the essential national security interest. In the written reply, the Minister writes that in the D-phase he will impose requirements which may lead to a certain degree of cooperation between the yard and the Dutch defence and technological industrial base and that probably only a small part of the critical systems can be supplied by Dutch companies. I am not a submarine builder who is going to draw out which system of which company should be in the submarine, but at the same time I do not think that'may lead to a certain degree of cooperation' sounds very ambitious. Because that can also mean that there will be no cooperation at all. It is therefore not yet clear what the minimum requirements are for strategic autonomy, whereas such requirements exist for, for example, expeditionary capacities. What initiatives are being taken to involve the Dutch companies that could provide critical systems as much as possible? Does the Minister agree with the members of the VVD that strategically autonomous ownership of the weapons system is also a quality, that it is desirable and necessary for Defence, Dutch companies and knowledge institutions to be able to carry out independent maintenance and upgrades and that therefore an essential role in production would be desirable? Does the Minister also agree that the selection should include requirements which should go beyond the possibility of cooperation with the golden triangle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you to Mr Van Wijngaarden. There is another question from Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u72	My question is about personnel policy. Does the VVD agree with the PVV that, at a time of heavy underpayment of Defence staff and of heavy understaffing of Defence personnel, it is a huge wrong approach of the Cabinet to prioritise diversity policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u73	Here, too, two things are put opposite each other as if they were mutually exclusive. I myself have spoken with a number of people about diversity policy. Someone graduated there six months ago or so, and I've been in touch with them as well. When you talk to military, it's just so interesting that they say: I have a better military result if I have a more diverse team. I know that from my experience in business. Various teams simply deliver better results, also militaryly. More women, more people from certain groups or more new Dutch are therefore not an end in itself. It serves a military purpose in the end. It just makes you more powerful and more effective and you achieve your results better. I found it interesting to hear that from the military. I therefore welcome the fact that this is being done by the armed forces for this reason. I also thought it was good to read, and we have also asked questions about this, perhaps rather critical questions, that someone who is actually less suitable is not eligible for the release of a promotional place because they belong to a particular different target group. That would go too far for me, but that is not the policy either, has been answered to the questions. I therefore believe that the cabinet is doing well on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u74	The VVD loves diversity policy. I think that is bad news, because the reality is that no one in the Defense Department is waiting for that. Whatever he says, a report from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has been published, and it states that 83% of defence workers do not want specific policies to attract women and 86% of defence workers do not want specific policies to attract people with different ethnic backgrounds or Ihbti backgrounds. They don't want it! Don't bother them. The diversity policy is driving them crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u75	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u76	If you are talking about attracting good staff, I would like to give you the floor: stop this! As a Defence Officer said, if this diversity drags on, then there will be no more people to give up these courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u77	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u78	They don't want it. It's a matter of priorities. Stop that diversity bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u79	Here a huge doom scenario is outlined and I am not going along with that. I think there are a lot of things that weigh heavily on Defense personnel. The pay building has already been discussed very clearly, so I am not going to repeat that. Something else is that you try or you can increase the predictability of the work, so when there is an exercise and when one goes on missions, so that the balance between work and private gets better. That seems to be an important factor in the satisfaction of people in the Defense Department. I think you should take a good look at that. I don't think people suddenly drop out because it's also being done to get more women into the Defense Department, for example. That's not gonna happen to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u80	The VVD, Mr Van Wijngaarden, says good and beautiful things about the construction of submarines. We're gonna hang out. We did that in the past with Mr Bosman. I once asked them directly whether it is not the VVD's preference to just go one-on-one with the combination Saab/Damen. Then we guarantee the Dutch maritime industry maximum throughout the construction and design process and in everything that comes next in terms of maintenance. I won't ask that question again, because if that's ever been said, I think it's already there. That's what I'm assuming. If we take that direction from now on, we will not run the risk of giving a lot of good things and putting forward good motions today and tomorrow, which may even make it, but that at the end of the entire procurement process we think that it has gone wrong and that there is not enough in the Dutch maritime industry? Let us be very clear: this is vital for the Dutch maritime industry. Does Mr Van Wijngaarden agree... Now I come to my question, Mr President, because of course you are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u81	Sure, because it was a very long introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u82	Does Mr Van Wijngaarden agree with me that it would be good if the Chamber at the front saw that the Dutch maritime industry is and remains fully involved in the process? That is better than thinking, as a Chamber, that things have gone in the wrong direction in the midst of ministries and procurement processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr Stoffer says a lot of things at once. I will try to respond as briefly as possible. First of all, I think we should be very careful. A submarine is the heaviest and most strategic weapon our military has. As far as I am concerned, the selection of that boat does not depend on where the company involved is located. As far as I am concerned, it depends on which yard can ultimately deliver the boat, whether it is in Sweden, France or Germany. The cabinet must make a selection, because that is much better than we are in the Chamber. What boat, with which we send people on life-threatening secret missions, offers the highest chance of survival for those people, namely the men and women of the submarine service? That's my priority. We want a military superior boat, just like the Walrus class has always been. That boat could operate very nicely in shallow waters and he can go very far away. This gives us a capacity to be proud of within NATO, a pride of the Navy. The bar is incredibly high. As far as I am concerned, this ambition is paramount and we must deliver on it. Next, the cabinet must convince the Swedish, French and Germans that we in the Netherlands too are able to maintain the boat as much as possible, to keep it going and therefore to use it as a strategic capacity. We do have to ensure that, but we are moving in together. You don't want us to lose him to one country or another for six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u84	A long question and a long answer. Now a shorter question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u85	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I've only got two left, so this is gonna be my one-after-last. I'm a little disappointed. My question is: is the VVD not confident that the Dutch maritime industry, with years of experience, with high technology development, can simply build the very best boat for the Netherlands? The SGP does. My question is: does the VVD have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u86	As a member of parliament, I deal primarily with the cabinet. That is why I challenge the criteria I have just mentioned to the various providers to carry out a thorough assessment of them. But I'm not gonna sit on any company's lap. I just don't think that's my role as MP. The Dutch maritime industry is a leading industry, also worldwide. That's definitely something to be proud of. Of course, we also have a long history at this point. We'll share that, I think. At the same time, we are also a little caught between dream and reality here, especially when it comes to submarines. I have already said something about the complexity of these machines. In the case of underwater vessels, the self-creating capacity and capacity are much more limited than in the case of surface vessels. I think it is very important to find the optimum between dream and reality here. As I said, I like to move in together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you. Mr Van Dijk of the SP has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an honor to be back as spokesman on the Defence Policy. I was allowed to be a spokesperson from 2010 to 2017. Feels a little like a comeback. Perhaps the Minister will recognize that. The discussion within the Defense Department seemed familiar, to put it that way. It was conducted in my time, and it is still being carried, namely: how much money should there be to Defense and what are the tasks of Defense? That is, of course, a recurring discussion. I must say that there is currently a massive lobby for EUR 4 billion extra for defence, not only from the Minister but also from the top of the armed forces, and actually from the whole military force. I'll tell you one anecdote to illustrate that. We were working in Lithuania. We were visiting the troops on the border with Russia. We were in a tent. There was a commander. Colleague Brekelmans asked: but what do you need here? There was a significant silence. Then the commander said 4 billion. Well, how obvious could it be? That drill worked out really well. At the same time, there were also people who said to us: yes, you know, steel on steel, tanks against tanks, is no longer of this time; it is now about cyberwarfare, it is about digital warfare. That might put the discussion on the budget for the Defense Department in a completely different light. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. Mr. Chairman. A key question in the debate on more money for Defence is, of course, also: what if that extra money doesn't come? The Minister himself says so in the budget. If that money doesn't come, then the DOD will have to shrink. Government is forward-looking, so I'm asking the Minister to work that out. In 2008, scenarios were also made, the so-called "explorations," as the Minister knows very well. That was extremely interesting, because different types of armed forces have been worked out, four policy options to be precise. You have the versatile armed forces, but you also have the armed forces bringing security, which is more focused on stabilisation missions. I ask the Minister: doesn't he think it makes sense to update that? What kind of forces could you decorate today? Defense has always been on versatile deployment. That may not be so crazy from the armed forces themselves, but I think that's problematic, because in fact you'll be organizing your own problems. A military force that wants everything but doesn't have the money to do everything, will of course squeak and crack. So if you want both a Joint Strike Fighter, and submarines, and cyberwarfare and tanks, that's gonna squeak and crack. I would therefore recommend to the Minister and also to the coalition: go see where you can specialize. Don't forget the staff, too, because the staff is always the lockpoint for the Defense Department. They are now calling for a minimum wage of €14. I couldn't agree more. Does the Minister agree with that? And does he want to do that so that the defence personnel, the men and women on the ground, just get a decent wage? I share that with all my heart. Mr. Chairman. The question that lies below is of course: what is the effect of the missions? I have been talking to Mr Van Wijngaarden about this for a while. What exactly is the result of the wars waged with our armed forces? Well, then you'll automatically get to Afghanistan. I would also ask this Minister to reflect on this very honestly. Does he share my view that this war has been a tragic mistake with a lot of victims, a lot of money and a lot of refugees? Twenty years of war and the result is that the Taliban are back in power. You can't call that a successful mission. There's nothing else I can do. Does the Minister share that opinion? There is one sector which, of course, has benefited very well from this: the arms industry. $2,000 billion has been spent on weapons. Imagine if we had spent that money on poverty reduction. Mr. Chairman. Then let's get a commercial, because the SP is gonna talk about that. Next Saturday, on 13 November, we will organise our Peace Day with a debate on this issue. That debate is about war and peace, about European defence and about all the things we are talking about today. You are cordially invited to attend. Check out our website. Mr. Chairman. The evacuations, the slow-paced evacuations from Afghanistan to the Netherlands are the reason this minister is here. His predecessor resigned for that reason. So I'm asking this minister to give us an update. How's the evacuation coming? About 2,000 people will be brought here, says the government itself. I'd like to hear about the situation. Mr. Chairman. I also ask: what about Mrs Sorgdrager's investigation into Hawija? And when will my questions about the Battle of Chora in Afghanistan be answered, where there have been terrible casualties? Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, defence can also do very useful work. For example, work in the civil sector, covid, floods and forest fires. Let me make it very clear that we can very much appreciate Defence for that reason. Finally, Mr President. NATO has the plan to renew nuclear weapons next year. You don't need to renew nuclear weapons, but you need to abolish them. There are serious concerns about autonomous weapons. For that you have to make rules, for example that they are always controlled by people. Does the Minister share that opinion? Does he want to plead for a treaty on autonomous weapons? And chromium-6, the carcinogen that so many people in the Defense Department have fallen victim to. What is the situation with regard to phasing out the use of this dangerous substance? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u90	Yeah, I'm just gonna take my last chance, then I'll just ask my question. I hear a fine speech by Mr Van Dijk, certainly the story about the staff. That sounds really good. It's also good that this conference is about war and peace. But I always think: to keep peace and if there are evil forces, you must also offer good counterpower. We really have to do something about these personnel, but in my opinion it is the main task of the Defense Department, of those personnel: fighting. Let me just call it that in one word. The people of Defense must use responsible violence. I would like to make that very clear. Is Mr Van Dijk, does the SP agree with me that this is indeed the task of those people we need to take care of so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u91	This question from the SGP was to be expected. I will ask him to reflect fairly on that fight in Afghanistan in his own term. How successful was that? I'm curious to hear the answer. I also referred to the 2008 reconnaissances, in which various military forces were worked out. The SP opts for the policy option: to bring security with a military force capable of carrying out stabilisation missions. But we do not choose a versatile military force that wants to do everything, with expensive fighter jets, and submarines, and cyberwarefare. The SP asks the DOD to choose so that the personnel aren't the lockpoint every time. Finally, Mr President. I took a look at the wire transfer from the Central Planning Office. The SGP invests, I believe, just over a billion. So that's not the 4 billion that's needed either. The four forming parties invest 2.6, 1.1, 0.1 and 0.6 billion respectively in Defence. That is about EUR 1 billion on average. That could just be included in a new coalition agreement. That's not $4 billion either. So I'm also asking the coalition to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Stoffer no longer has any interruptions, but would like an answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u93	I just need to make something factual right. The SGP has a plan until 2030, a dot on the horizon. In it, we are putting in the amount needed for that 2%. It's true that that goes up with a hockey stick curve. That's one. The second is an observation. I have no answer to my question: is fighting the main task, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u94	No. I just told you what the SP chooses. We opt for stabilisation missions and peace missions. Then fighting for the Dutch armed forces is not, as far as we are concerned, the main task. Look also at the civilian tasks of Defense, which we attach great importance to. So no, we are different in this discussion from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you to Mr Van Dijk. I call Mrs Belhaj, D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr. Chairman. I want to start by looking back at this summer, at the chaos that arose in Afghanistan after the Taliban turned out to be much stronger than anyone expected. On 4 July, the NATO forces had left. Exactly six weeks later Kabul fell, after which an extremely tragic scenario took place and the Dutch government was severely tested. This summer, the Chamber tabled a motion to broaden the interpretation arrangements to other local staff. It was unclear at the time what responsibility the Dutch government had towards other local staff alongside the interpreters. Afghanistan is not over yet, but a temporary consensus has been reached with the government on how to tackle it. Of course there will be an evaluation, but we can already learn from this. I therefore call today for clear frameworks for the responsibility of the Dutch State for local staff in future missions. I would like to receive a response from the Minister and consider a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then to the staff, the foundation of every organization, especially the armed forces. There are still major challenges for the Defense Department. I'm going into recruitment and diversity. It is good to read that the focus of recruitment has been on the Randstad and the major cities for some time. Congratulations on this. Defence has been working on the lack of diversity and inclusiveness for a number of years. However, the change in culture is slow. Deputy Commander of the Armed Forces Boudewijn Boots said this summer in the NRC that tackling everyday sexism and racism is now on one side. This promise was made shortly after two top female soldiers stepped down, mistook by the toxic working environment. The fact that such power women quit says a lot and that affects me, but a cultural change is not without impact. It'll take a long time. At the same time, you can also partly force it. Two things are important: the Defence Summit and its attitude, and symbolism. To begin with, the call of these abandoned ladies is clear: it starts at the top. That is why I would like to ask the Minister, along with the entire Defence Summit, to prepare a statement along the lines already outlined by Vice Admiral Boots. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then to the equipment, specifically the replacement of the submarine capacity. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the openness the Minister has shown in his recent letter to the Chamber. Bad news is not nice to bring, but it is an example of a minister who is honest about what is happening in his department and that is to be praised. I would like to comment on the choices about military-off-the-shelf, which actually means a submarine off the shelf, and risk management of the design. The answer confuses me. The Minister writes that twelve control questions for the acquisition of the shelf will be answered, but that this does not mean that a C phase is still being considered. Can the Minister promise that the framework in the B-letter in the D-phase will simply be honoured? I also read in the newspaper that there is a intention that there will be a motion calling for more Dutch industrial security. Can the Minister explain how the endless number of motions that have already been tabled in this Chamber relates to a proper procurement procedure and all the risks involved? Mr. Chairman. Then it's about greening. This doesn't go very well with the Department of Defense. The word "sustainability" appears once in the Defence Vision. Count your blessings, some might say, but I won't. That is one thing to understand, because its core tasks make it an exceptional organisation, for example, except for the Climate Agreement and the Climate Act. But at the same time, it's a big energy and fuel user. Reporting is an important part of this. Can the Minister undertake to report annually on Defence's fuel and energy consumption with the aim of making this transparent and striving for greater energy efficiency? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to take the time to talk about a book on the history of Defense. The title of the book is The Destroy of the Dutch Armed Forces. I don't know who knows it. Unfortunately, I forgot to bring it. But I did bring some other books I'll tell you about later. This book describes very precisely how the Cold War, the fall of the Wall, the peace dividend and the years of austerity have had their impact on the Dutch armed forces and their relationship with Europe. I got a few points out of it. This book begins in the 1960s and 1970s, in which there is intense discussion about the usefulness and necessity of the armed forces. This ultimately results in the State Committee of Civil and Military Experts, led by Van Rijckevorsel. At the time, it was not possible to give a clear answer to what the direction and position of the armed forces should be. Nor did his report clarify the financial choices involved. Due to the political crisis in the Biesheuvel-II cabinet in the summer of 1972, new elections were held. The report, in a sense, became oblivion; it disappeared. The new cabinet Den Uyl announced in his government statement that a new Defence Note was to be issued. This exercise repeated a number of times. For example, in the 1974 Defence Note, Minister De Koster decided to delay material projects. The book also deals with the cuts in Defense and how the 1990s were actually a low point of the total Defence budget of 6 billion, a result of the peace dividend that Defense would continue to play for a long time in the next century. A real trauma. These cuts even lead to the rejection of certain parts of some armed forces. Then I take a very big step in time: in 2002 and 2007 it is our current Minister Kamp who then went through those turbulent years with the Defense Department. He realized, among other things, that there was a need for a major reorganisation, and made new changes in direction. For example, the current Minister Kamp installed the current function of the Commander of the Armed Forces, who was given the right to command the four armies, in my interpretation in response to the chaos. Maybe the Minister can tell us something about that. The book then describes how it was decided to turn the financial tide after roughly 25 years from 2017. Defense gets over 1.5 billion more. This will allow the transformation into a modern military force to be deployed. But what's this modern organization gonna look like? There were differences of opinion on that. Once again, there is a debate about how that money is to be spent, whether there are no choices to be made, or is the DOD going to do everything again? The Minister therefore decides to write a very comprehensive Defence Vision 2035, a blueprint for what the Defence Organisation should look like fifteen years later, the document through which the essential discussion on the military force of the future should now really be conducted. Under the increasing pressure of external threats, the time seemed ripe to make clear choices from the point of view of reality about what the armed forces should look like. By 2035 the DOD had to be able to do anything again. At least that required a minimum of 13 billion. Some people were wondering if we wouldn't have to choose. Right around this time, there was an opportunity to complete those choices. Because of the changed geopolitical relationship in the world, the door was pounded very hard in Brussels. It was the Americans. They expressed their desire to play a different role in the world and asked Europeans, after 75 years of geopolitical vacation, to stop their military pants themselves. It was time that the EU, complementary to NATO, took care of its own security. The Netherlands, as co-founder of the European Union, could choose to listen to its Atlantic friend: the great American brother. We could choose to make the EU a military superpower alongside an economic superpower, but a majority in the Chamber did not dare to do so. In the 1920s, the debate continued on the 2% standard, because more money would solve the problem by itself. This discussion has been going on for over half a century. The EU's opportunity as a military superpower was not seized. The Netherlands didn't dare to turn to Europe. I'm almost there, chairman of the committee, and stayed in the North Sea with one leg, longing back to the seafaring great power it once was. The fact that the strengthening of the Dutch military might also be found in proactive thinking about what role the Netherlands wants to play in Europe was not widely shared. The book describes how the EU nevertheless went through. After 2021, the EU opted for a very ambitious implementation of the Strategic Compass, but the Netherlands seemed to have little to do with it. It was like a decent ball where France and Germany drew the room, while the Netherlands stared somewhere in a corner at the tips of his shoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u97	I would like to interrupt, because Mr Van Haga has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u98	I've been going over the election programs of the VVD, the CDA and D66. It seems as if they have all been sitting in one room and agreed on the same text, because that is what I like about everywhere: we are increasing Defence spending to the European average of GDP. So we're not going to commit to the 2%, and neither is D66. That's the first thing. Secondly, I notice that D66 wants a European military force with a European physical headquarters. Then we'll borrow tanks from Germany and helicopters from Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u99	We already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u100	Yeah, we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u101	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u102	It may be a bit of a rhetorical question, but what happens if we get into a fight with Germany or Belgium? We deliver the intent and the genius and are going to provide game soup, but we have no helicopters and no tanks. What are we going to do if we do get into a fight with Germany or Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u103	This question surprises me a little, because I had the impression that Mr Van Haga knew more about it. That question is not only related to the European armed forces. This is already happening, because we are already working together in many areas. So we're already largely dependent. That's good. You ask what happens if we get into a fight with Germany or the Belgians. The point of view is that if you stand for a European Union, if you jointly underline European values, if you know that there is a political way to make agreements, this is the best guarantee that you will never have war or fight. Actually, I think this question is a little crazy. It's kind of a crazy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u104	The question is as crazy as the receiver thinks it is. It is, of course, a question of whether there is a minimum degree of independence for D66 that we as a country must guarantee in relation to our military apparatus. That's my real question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u105	I understand that question very well. If you are in favour of a European military force, you are not against having your own military force and guaranteeing your own sovereignty. That is my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with how the book describes all the discussions that took place. In the end, lack of decisiveness and conviction brought about what broke up the Netherlands in the field of its security policy. It chose to work closely together. Even though the Netherlands saw the urgency of the cooperation, the Netherlands did not dare to go all the way for it. Two parties, such as D66 and Volt, fought against the beer quay at that time. The book concludes that all the national armed forces in Europe who try to keep all the balls in the air would eventually stumble and fail. From fear of hard choices and by cramping to the old, something like necessarily wanting to wear a tie during a budget treatment, a military force that could do everything by itself was built in vain, in the highest spectrum of violence. That's a chauvinistic utopia. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, this book has not yet been written, but the story about the situation until 2021 does exist. I have also gratefully used the book State interest and military force of Mr De Geus, the late Minister of Defence, and the book De kaalslag bij Defense by Mr Krijn Schramade. The future that is outlined could just become true if we do not take the lessons learned about the devaluation of the Dutch armed forces, but throw them from us. My group hopes, therefore, that this book, as I have just described, will never see the light of day. The question now needs to be not only how much we invest, but also how the Dutch armed forces can best be integrated into a robust security apparatus made up of NATO and the European defence union. In doing so, difficult questions about specialisation and the transfer or rejection of certain parts of the armed forces should not be shy, driven from the point of view of reality, with a view to one's own strengths and assuming one's own positions. This will require a workable implementation of the Defence Vision which shows that choices are being made. That is the realism that D66 advocates in security policy. This is how we keep the Netherlands, the European Union and the world free and safe. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is interested in ordering this book or whether he hopes with me that this book does not need to be written. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u108	There are questions. First of all, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u109	In any case, allow me to congratulate and thank Mrs Belhaj for the fine speech. I do have a single question on the content. In the fictional passage it was pointed out for a moment that D66 and Volt are moving together, but we saw something quite different recently when we voted on a motion by Mr Stoffer. Volt voted in favour of pursuing NATO's 2% standard. And then all of a sudden, that collaboration wasn't there. How am I supposed to see this in the light of the fact that we are moving together in the search for a more European military force?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u110	That's a very good question. I didn't notice. I thought "I'm doing something nice towards Volt," but I'm taking that back. No, I'm not. That particular part was about the conviction that it is important that you strive for that European military force. It is up to Volt to vote in favour of this 2% standard. I was trying to explain that I don't find the discussion about money complicated. That 2% standard only becomes a kind of monster that everyone uses all the time. I find it more interesting to talk about the amount and how far you can grow. We in D66 are not the frontrunners in making the highest investments. So I'm not gonna do a little big about that either. You mentioned "26" and that's what you see in the overviews, but I looked it up: you could have put 9 on your shirt. The Netherlands is in about ninth place in terms of the gross investment that the Netherlands makes in Defence. I constantly feel that that frame of that 2% standard is being used to say: we are in place 26! But we're ninth on gross investment. And that is far more relevant than referring to a country that has a low gross national product and is therefore in fourth place. I would like to say to Mr Van Wijngaarden: 9, not 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u111	If we can get out somewhere in the middle of 9 and 26, I'm very happy. But without madness: we have seen that Volt, even in interviews, has taken a little more distance from the idea of a European army. They do that out of realism, something that Mrs Belhaj has just argued for. I wonder how I can see that in the context of the plea for rejection and specialisation. Because if you're gonna work with allies, then at some point the question is: what are you gonna bring in? If we are already talking about working together in Europe and calling it'rejection' and'specialization' in one breath, then I wonder how attractive you are as a cooperation partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u112	Actually, that's connected. I'm not from Volt; I'm from D66. If they are no longer in favour of the European armed forces, I say good luck. Then it's gonna be in the books that D66 was the only one who chose it. That's what I stand for. The Strategic Compass that is coming is incredibly important in order to have a careful discussion about this. This is about: what threats do you see, what capacities are there, who is what in Europe is good at, what are our expectations and commitments to NATO? That overview should give us the opportunity to say: if we want to ensure this together with the European Defence Union, this means that for the Netherlands. That doesn't mean another list of ten other things that you might want from the point of view of Defence but which actually have no added value. For me, therefore, it is an ideological, realistic approach to what is now needed in the field of defence. This, of course, involves efficiency and, if it is right, specialisation, not only from savings. It's also nice that it comes out that you get focus. Focus is important for everyone, even in everyday life. If you don't choose and eventually make changes... There is now a book, which refers to not choosing. That is what the book is about: what are the consequences and what happens if you then correct a few things in those consequences. So my plea is to do it right and then choose it and go for the next 20 years. That's reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yes, but at the same time, of course, it is also a reality that the world is made up of even more than just that Strategic Compass. I hear now that the things that are not there have no added value. But does Mrs Belhaj agree with me that we should always look at the Dutch interests that need to be defended, for example free passage and free sea routes, wherever in the world? In theory, this may be something that does not come out of that Strategic Compass, but which is still a Dutch interest that we still have to consider at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u114	I fully agree with Mr Van Wijngaarden. It is actually wonderful that he mentions this example, because in order to ensure that free passage we have, among other things, the Hormuz mission, in which the French said: boys, we have to do something together as European countries, because we are suffering from it. Subsequently, under the leadership of the French, the possibility of joint military forces was used for the first time. The Netherlands said: we want to, because we can't make it on our own. But our trading position is being positioned. This is, therefore, an excellent example of the fact that national sovereignty and Dutch trade are best guaranteed by cooperation in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mrs Belhaj is fat with Volt this year, and then she isn't, because if she says D66 is the only party that advocates a European army. I would like to remind her that last year my colleague Tom van den Nieuwenhuijzen tabled a motion together with D66, which was also adopted in which it was argued that the cabinet should present scenarios for this specialisation. My question to Mrs Belhaj is: what does she think that those scenarios are still not there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u116	First of all, I regret that I thought: how polite would it be to involve Volt as a European-oriented party. But I still stand for it. I'm aware of the motion you're asking for. I have the feeling that this motion can only be implemented if the Strategic Compass is there. If you know what the threats are and if you know what the capabilities are, it seems to me that the cabinet can also answer that motion more easily. It is good that you remind me, and I ask what the Minister thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mrs. Bromet, this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u118	My last?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u120	We have a note. Last year we had a debate in which a motion was adopted. And then we need another Strategic Compass. The choice is pushed forward. My plea is to come up with these scenarios quickly, because then we can continue with this discussion on specialisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u121	I understand that, but I would find it very unwise to say to the cabinet: do it quickly. If you're doing well with the European Strategic Compass, you'll finally have a good basis for the conversation to be complete. I myself have said very little about specialization for years, because the boys happen to be the guys who always said, "Oh yes, Mrs. Belhaj? What are you going to delete? Are you against the Navy? Are you against...?" Those are impossible choices. I thought, "I need to be smarter about that." I need something, namely facts and statements, to be able to have that conversation. I do not believe that a politician should say: do two fewer planes. Or: the army can leave. Or, "Cyber." I don't think that's my job as a politician. My job as a politician is to give direction, to indicate how I see security policy politically. Then the military say, "We want everything." Then I say: well, we are trying again, because 'everything' is not going to work; this and this is happening in Europe. Then I will answer the question again as to what we need as the Netherlands. I'd rather see that, because then it's not about the tools and resources that the armed forces want to deploy, they know that very well, but then it's about what smart tools are to address the threats. Otherwise, I might do some really weird things. That's why the Strategic Compass is very important. First we have the overview and then we say to the defense: say it, fill it in, and then we say what we think. That's how I see it. Sometimes it just takes a little longer, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u122	Hm, too bad, because that was exactly the question I wanted to ask. But I'm gonna try anyway. I think it is precisely the politics that has to make these choices. The armed forces can want anything, certainly, and also provide technical support and information. But it's the politics that has to choose. There is a constant in the Defence debate, and you also heard this in Mrs Belhaj's wonderful speech: since the 1990s it has been squeaking and cracking in the defence sector through cuts. But tasks have never been dismissed, let alone military components. So I ask Mrs Belhaj to be a little bold. What does her party want? Does she want to continue with an air force with expensive Joint Strike Fighters and a navy with expensive submarines and an army with tanks, whether leased or not, and cyberwarfare? Or do you dare say today: of course we must make choices. And let's just stand at a crossroads when it comes to submarines. Isn't that a wonderful opportunity to say: we're going to save EUR 3.5 billion on that, because we're not going to buy new submarines? Do you dare?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u123	I've got a lot of nerve. The question is rather: do I occasionally dare a little less? What Mr Van Dijk says, I think, is exactly what is going politically wrong. The question we need to answer is not how you want to achieve the goal, but what you want to achieve. So you will say, for example, that you want the Netherlands to have the very best autonomous intelligence position in Europe. Then you'll go to the armed forces. Then you don't say, "I think you need two helicopters." No, then you say, in this case to the Minister, that you have determined that this is important. Then you either agree or disagree. Then the Minister asks at the military summit: what do I need to fill in that position? Then they probably say that you need drones for that, that you need submarine capacity, that you need good cyber for that. You could invent infinite things. So those are the choices based on what you want, and that's where you stick. You'll make that choice. I have the feeling that the Chamber has found it too often complicated in history to say, "No, not those ships. No, not those helicopters. No, not those tanks." There was then a bit messed up. It is actually, if I am unkind to my colleagues, the same thing we are doing now with the submarines, because that is where we all want to stick things. If we are not careful, then it becomes a kind of Volvo with Ferrari elements; so that is very ugly. So just make a choice for one or the other. Finally, Mr President. My answer to the question is: no, we should not do that. We should not, as a political decision, decide which military instruments should be used. We must decide which position in the world the Netherlands stands for itself and which position the military force would like to have. I therefore disagree with Mr Van Dijk. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u124	Just about the submarines to which all kinds of wishes were glued. I do remember a motion by Mrs Hachchi, former party colleague of Mrs Belhaj. She had tabled a motion stating that the submarines should also be made suitable for women, so it had to be converted. So your party has a hand with that, too. It doesn't matter whether it was desirable or not. That's all fine. I think Mrs Belhaj revolves around my question. There has been a discussion for 20 years on what tasks our armed forces should have. Every time we do things, we do things. It squeaks and cracks. The staff is the lockpoint in this whole story, because the expensive weapons are always at the top of the list. See the JSF. See the submarines. You're going for specialization and cooperation, Mrs. Belhaj, and so am I. I think it is very good to work with countries in Europe. I do not like giving powers to Brussels, but I do like working together, for example with neighbouring countries. Then we can say: that country does more on the Air Force and we do more on the Navy? Why don't you make choices? 'Cause that's how you keep padding and wet, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u125	People don't often tell me I keep papping and keeping wet. That's total bullshit. The SP may say that we agree, but we disagree. In your own speech, you say that you think the whole of Defence is a bit of nonsense. D66 doesn't think so. We do not want specialization and cooperation from the point of view that there can be a little less and that you can do a little more according to staff. It is a deep conviction that, if you do not do so, that book will be written and that there will be no Dutch army anymore, because it has fallen completely apart. That's why I'm saying it. I've heard a few things about the staff. That affects me, because D66 has always said that the staff should be at the top. As far as salaries are concerned, everyone agrees. But since 2018, 2020, a great deal has happened: the one-off gross end-of-year allowance, the 6.3% salary increase, then an increase in the full end-of-year allowance from 1.9% to 6.4% et cetera. I'm not going to mention all those numbers, because that's a little faint, but a lot has happened. I agree with you that it is not enough, but suggesting that in recent years only money has been spent on equipment is simply factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr President, I will correct one thing with your permission. That doesn't count as interrupting, if you don't mind. On the contrary, I have made a careful argument as to why we do not think the armed forces are bullshit. We do want other tasks for the armed forces. I pointed out the policy options and the explorations. D66 invests 100 million in Defense; I've seen that in the election program. That's not $4 billion either. As long as you don't make choices, it keeps padding and wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u127	That's 500 million, to be exact. We can have whole discussions about how this has been incorporated into the table, but this is because of the 500 million D66 has in its election programme, 400 million had to be invested directly in staff and employment. That's why. Mr. Chairman. It would be a shame if we ended up like this. At least I think so. I am extremely pleased that we have had a fundamental conversation. I hope, above all, that we will continue to do so. I can really recommend the armed forces, because I see that many of the discussions we are having here today were also held 50, 60 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. Mrs Piri, PvdA, has the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As spokesman for the Defense Department, you sometimes get very moving messages. A message that will stay with me is the message I received from a woman who sent me an e-mail this summer in the middle of the Afghanistan crisis. Her son was seriously injured in a suicide attack and eventually died of his injuries. But because his interpreter and colleague had quickly offered first aid, he could be brought to the Netherlands on the ventilator alive. Here the mother, together with loved ones, said goodbye to her son. Before that, she wrote, both the Defense and the interpreter were eternally grateful. It made me realize how special Defence is as an organization and how grateful we should be for all men and women who are literally in the front line and risking their lives for our safety and those of others, but also what a huge impact the work of the military has on the home front. During the last year, the people of Defense were ready when we needed them: in the flood in Limburg, in the nursing and nursing homes during the corona crisis, but also in the emergency evacuations from Kabul, in the defence of the European eastern border in the Baltic States and, in the coming months, in the provision of assistance to the UN mission in Mali. And yet, despite this crucial work for our security, the real appreciation for the Defense personnel leaves to be desired. That is what I see in this budget. That's what I can tell by the lousy collective bargaining offer that's been made. Defense is holding onto a 100-year-old payroll building. There are complaints about an unsafe working environment. And it doesn't work to keep people for the organization, witnessing the 9,000 vacancies. The picture does not get any better with complaints about the deployment of the armed forces and with the numerous political debacles of recent years. Take the cover-up of the fact that 70 civilian casualties fell in Hawija, or the most recent scandal, in which sensitive information about Dutch citizens was collected against all rules. Take the total lack of urgency or leadership of this missionary cabinet to bring locally Afghan personnel serving with our military to safety in time, or the fact that the missionary cabinet now wants this operation evaluated by a commission led by VVD-prominent Frank de Grave. It should not be surprising that all this leads to frustration and lack of motivation among defence personnel. The question I would like to put to the Minister is therefore simple: what is he going to do to address the structural problems, to ensure that the appreciation for the staff returns? In any case, my group's wish is clear. The PvdA wants a concrete commitment on the new wage building, and this time with a deadline. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few years, the cabinet has put many hundreds of millions more into Defense. I find it shocking to read the conclusion that the impact of these additional investments on the employability of Defence is limited. The Court of Auditors has already indicated: it looks like mopping with the tap open. Before we start discussing a further increase in the budget, the Minister even argues for 4.2 billion structural funds, I would like to understand how the additional money in recent years has not had the intended effect on both staff shortages and equipment maintenance. I don't understand. This clearly shows that wrong priorities have been set. The money has been spent on additional capacities rather than on eliminating existing backlogs. Many hundreds of millions of euros further, and there are still the same problems as four years ago. This makes the Minister's call that with even more financial resources, all problems will be solved, unbelievable. Can the Minister explain how it is possible that investments in defence have not led to improvements in operational readiness? How is it that there is still, four years later, a staff shortage of 20%, and that less than half of the equipment can be used? And I would also like to hear from the Minister where, as far as he is concerned, the absolute priority should be to spend extra money rather than to spread the weather over the whole organization. My group is not opposed to new investments in the defence sector, but rather to investments that contribute to the elimination of backlogs, better-valued personnel and the employability of the armed forces, both at national and international level. As far as the PvdA is concerned, defence must be framed in an overarching vision of foreign policy, in which, in addition to development cooperation, diplomacy and trade, defence is one of our tools in the toolbox to counter the challenges of today and in the future, and to contribute to the protection of the international legal order, as laid down in the Dutch Constitution. In addition, we will also have to discuss the interpretation of our international role, which has already been referred to by colleagues with the lessons learned from twenty years of presence in Afghanistan. Above all, however, we must realise that the basis of these lessons and all our future ambitions is the people who have to implement the policy. They deserve more appreciation than they get now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u130	Thank you, Mrs Piri. I now give the floor to Mr Boswijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to my policy officer Laurens Houtman for borrowing his tie. I forgot it this morning, and of course it can't be that you're standing here without a tie. In 1882 the then young student Theodore Roosevelt published his first book The Naval War of 1812. He wrote about the war between Great Britain and the United States, where the United States went under against Britain and the British even set fire to the White House. He came to the conclusion that the United States actually performed so badly because they barely had a good navy. And he also concluded that the Dutch Republic and the United Kingdom were or had been world powers because they had had that great navy. Sixteen years later, Roosevelt, as Deputy Minister of the Navy, took the floor and ordered the construction of the so-called "Great White Fleet." And a few years later, he, now president, would deploy this fleet worldwide to show the power and power of the United States. It was this president and this fleet that made America the world power that we still know today. Yet, because it is very similar that China has also taken over the lesson of Theodore Roosevelt: at the moment there are just as many ships a year in China from the quay as the entire Dutch fleet. Mr. Chairman. The world is changing faster than ever, and we will have to adapt faster than ever. Where we used to think that conflicts were behind us, we can no longer afford such naivety. Geopolitical relations harden and the threats in form are growing extremely rapidly. Quite recently, of course, we have been pressed with our noses on the facts in Afghanistan. But also every day, for example on the border with Poland and the Baltic States. In this international power play, we as a small country must stand up to these major changes. This requires a well-equipped military force. This cabinet has taken steps in the right direction. This cabinet period has structurally gone more money to Defense and yet the Ministry is not in a good position. Due to the cumulative deficits of recent years, it is still mainly plaster sticking. The Ministry states that due to these problems they are no longer able to fulfil the constitutional tasks. That is a worrying observation and, at the same time, an appeal to politics, to us to do something about it. It is this Parliament as a whole that is responsible for the implementation of our Constitution that we are not complying with at the moment. As you all know, the CDA has always advocated a vital defence apparatus. As far as the CDA is concerned, there is a clear growth path towards the NATO standard of 2%. As far as we are concerned, at least the EU-NATO average will be achieved in the next cabinet period. At the same time, I'm also a realist. At the beginning of last year, the Defence Vision 2035 was presented laying the foundations for the recovery and a new form of our defence. We must therefore make choices, because as it now seems, it will cost not 4 or 5 billion but 13 to 17 billion. And we must also be realistic: that is not going to happen, of course. That is why choices need to be made, in addition to the fact that more money has to go to the Defense Department anyway. Choices...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'm just looking for a good time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u133	I just kept talking on purpose; I thought, "I'm just trying."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u134	And I'm trying. Mr Fritsma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr Boswijk appeals to the responsibility of the Chamber, but shouldn't the CDA be the first to take action? I have just taken up the coalition agreement, which includes the signature of the CDA. It says about Defence, and I quote: 'Basedness is being put in order, operational employability is being increased and necessary investments in the replacement and renewal of equipment are being financed in the future'. Does the CDA recognise that nothing has happened on all these points, each and every one of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u136	I'll put an even bigger hand in my own bosom, and I've done that before. I think that we, as CDA, have made choices in the past that we should not have done afterwards and that we have gone on with austerity for too long. At the same time, however, it has been this cabinet that has made a structural allocation of 1.7 billion a year and a one-off allocation of 1.7 billion, where it was still expected that if we did that, the basic set-up would be in order. Unfortunately, we see that this is not the case. You are also a little ahead of my plea with your question. I'm really convinced that we need to make more money for the DOD. My question to the Minister is then what guarantee we have that it will be settled. I am asking this because we also had the guarantee at the time that if we were structuralally to allocate 1.7 billion a year, which happened four years ago, it would have been resolved and that at least the basis would be in order. Unfortunately, we have found that this is not the case. And the CDA is responsible for that, too. I'm not running away from that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u137	It is good that you do not run away from that, because it also depends on credibility. You signed the previous coalition agreement, which, in terms of defence, did not end up with anything. There's gonna be a new coalition agreement soon. So what's the guarantee to the defense staff that it's gonna work out now? The VVD already had a credibility problem, but of course the CDA is not much behind in that. So how do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u138	The Defence Organization is not in order right now, but it is now very short to say that nothing has happened and that nothing has improved at all. Mr Belhaj has just spoken about wage costs, which I believe to be scandalously low, where steps have been taken, as well as in the renovation of barracks, although there are indeed a lot of barracks not yet in order. So give the impression that nothing has happened in the last four years, I say: not enough has happened and much remains to be done, but that nothing has happened at all is simply not true. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know where profits can still be made at the moment. That is independent of the fact that we need to look at what kind of defence organization we want and that we simply need more money to go to the Defense Department. For example, can the rule and reporting pressure or adjustments in the control model be considered critically? The CDA has been hearing some critical sounds about this for a long time. The Commander of the Armed Forces has been completely removed from policy-making, thus lacking military expertise in policy-making. This also leads officials without a military background to fill out how the CDS should do its job. Steps can still be taken in this, without costing money. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the Defense personnel. First of all, on behalf of the CDA, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation for the wonderful work done by our men and women. They work 24/7, 365 days a year for our safety. But with appreciation, we're not getting there. For a safer Netherlands, a better wage is needed for our military. Military salaries are regularly on the poverty line. The nearly 10,000 vacancies make it painfully clear that Defence has problems with recruiting and, above all, maintaining personnel. Mr. Chairman. Defence personnel policy remains focused in 2022 on being a good employer, who manages to attract and retain the right people. That is a good institution, but in the meantime staff have been without a collective agreement since January 2021. How is this compatible? And perhaps even more importantly, what is the state of progress in modernising the wage building? It dates back to 1917. This is taking too long as far as we are concerned. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u139	This is now the third coalition party I hear pleading for more money and appreciation for the staff. All the opposition parties have done the same, I think. I have a simple question: shall we simply deal with this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u140	In this respect, I am confident that we will get out of this in the short term. At the same time, it has been mentioned a few times already, of course, there is a formation at the moment. This formation talks about really large amounts of money, because in the end we are talking about a lot of money, even though we are talking about staff alone. To be perfectly honest, I think it is nice to discuss that on the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u141	This debate is becoming more and more special and bizarre. I think we are just looking at next year's budget here. Each time, the coalition parties, the VVD, have done so before, and the CDA is now also saying that this debate does not really matter here. They say it's about what they're gonna get together with the four of them, and this is gonna be what they want with the DOD. What are we doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u142	So I really don't agree with that. I have heard a number of ideas and sounds here that I had not thought about at all. I think that my colleagues who are now forming will agree with that. Maybe we are thinking: Mrs Piri has such good ideas, we are going to anticipate them, and we are going to make sure that we might include them in the new coalition agreement. So the debate is not for nothing at all. I don't believe in that. But we also have to be real. A formation trajectory isn't something new. You have to take these decisions in the light of many other decisions, because of course we have several budget debates. You must always see what the total of all wishes and demands is. There happen to be a number of parties here that consider the Defense Department and the Defense personnel to be very important. Some parties are not present here either. They consider other debates, such as the debate on education, to be very important. Then it's important that you put all the totals together and then you go and see what you can and what you can't do. If we all say in each budget that we have to take care of it here, and that we do not have to do it in formation, then we simply cannot get out of it. Well, I'm afraid the whole thing isn't gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u143	I am going to take advantage of Mr Boswijk's first term to comment on the suggestion that is being made here. Then I'll ask one more question at the end. The suggestion is raised here as if there is no point in budgetary treatment if you are forming. I just want to stress that that's really bullshit. There's a budget. It provides financial support for the additional resources that are available. Anyone in the Chamber can say: I do not agree with it; I am deleting something here, I am tabling an amendment, and I want to take something away from Defence and do more about education. That's unrelated to the formation process. The formation process is about the question: if you have extra money, what would you spend it on? Some of us, including myself, cannot answer that now. That's all it is. I'm really sorry everyone's saying, "What are we doing here?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u144	And your question is whether Mr Boswijk agrees with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Boswijk, don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u146	If this is any kind of abuse, I don't have a problem with it. I totally agree with that. We are talking about a budget of a few billion, money that is being reallocated and reallocated. On top of that, the forming parties need to see what other wishes there are. We have concluded that there are many more wishes. So I fully agree with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u147	Before you continue, Mrs Van der Plas has a question. I have also seen Mr Van Dijk standing there for a while, but it looks good there. He doesn't have a question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr Boswijk is a Defence spokesman and he can simply indicate what he would like most. I assume that Mr Boswijk is also making this contribution within his party, indicating how he looks at it. Or is Mr Boswijk heard from the group: listen, you can make a contribution, but keep it a little vague, because we are still forming. And if you get any tricky questions, just tell them we're still forming. Or can he just say here himself: but I would like to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u149	I would like to repeat what I said three minutes ago. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are coming up with a realistic timetable towards that NATO-2% and we are going at least to the EU-NATO average during this cabinet period. That's what I said. That's our commitment as a CDA. I added that our staff is number one. That's all I can say. I don't think that's very vague. All I'm saying is that we have a political majority. So if I'm going to table a motion here with that content, then that's all for the stage. That's not gonna work, because everyone understands that such things have to be settled in a formation eventually. We have a formation now. So, yeah, I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u150	It's fashionable these days to say that motions are for the stage. I see that coming by about every day. Motions are not for the stage, motions are submitted because you are behind a position and because you may also want to unwrap structures. Motions aren't for the stage. I really think that's an insult to Members of Parliament who are filing motions. You just have the chance to vote on a motion or vote against it, period. So we really need to stop doing that. I do not like it towards society either, because we are being pretended to be dealing with some kind of circus here. Yeah, sometimes I think we're in a circus here, but we're in serious business here. Every representative of the people who makes motions here has every right to do so. I don't think we should burn each other down about it whether it's for the stage or not. Having said that, I had no answer to my question. My question was as follows. Does Mr Boswijk receive from the group: 'If you get difficult questions, then always throw it on the formation'? Or is Mr Boswijk free to speak freely without group discipline or future coalition discipline?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u151	First of all, referring to the word "fraction discipline"; that is always framed as something negative. People with military backgrounds know that discipline is a very good thing. If we had no discipline, it would be chaos. But apart from that, I have said very clearly, and I repeat again: the CDA says 'we want to work for NATO 2%'. I said that in this cabinet period we want to go to those EU/NATO averages. And I also said: we have that Defence vision; that is 13 to 17 billion, which I have honestly said is not realistic; so we have to make choices in the end. Then I agree with what Mrs Belhaj just said. I do not think we should say here in the Chamber that we should order four JSFs off. I think that we should focus here on the why and how the question should be asked by specialists and by the defence sector. So I'm very clear about this. Let me also say something about motions for resolutions before the House. Mr President, I think that is the biggest problem of our time. There are certainly motions for the stage. All day long, I'm being harassed by motions that I think add nothing at all and are being pulled out of context. The fact alone that we had 300 motions a year in the early 1990s; at the moment we are in a madhouse with 5,000 motions a year and it just doesn't stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr. Boswijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u153	To be honest, as Members of Parliament, I think we should have the discipline to look critically at motions and sometimes think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u154	I think it is a very nice subject on an important instrument that we have as a Chamber, but hopefully we are going to have this debate with each other at another time, because there is a lot to be said about it. We're talking about the defence budget today, so I just wanted to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u155	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u156	I don't care what you've exchanged with Mrs. Van der Plas. Very important, but we're going to address that at another time. Mrs Van der Plas has a third question on the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u157	Yes. I have lost my third interruption to answering my question. My question was very simple. I can see that happening here a lot. Those are very simple questions, because you can just answer yes or no. My question was whether Mr Boswijk was told by his group that all the difficult questions should be put to the formation. Is he getting that from the group or is that his own choice? The answer is very simple: yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u158	I cannot answer this question with yes or no. Have I been instructed from my group to avoid difficult questions? No. Am I avoiding difficult questions? No, I don't either, because I'm answering it here. So burn up all your interruptions, but I honestly don't know what else to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mrs. Van der Plas, you have three more interruptions. You or you will continue to do so, but I do not think you will get the answer you hope to get. So think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u160	Ask the question right. Then there will be a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u161	... and ask the question correctly, is also an advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u162	I'll take my chances. I am going to say the same thing to Mr Boswijk as to Mr Hugo de Jonge. With Mr De Jonge it was half an hour, but you could have given this answer ten minutes ago. So the answer was no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u163	You can respond or not, Mr. Boswijk, or you will get a question from Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u164	No, I'm looking forward to the next question. I'm a little speechless because of the show we've got now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u165	I would like to talk about these motions, because I am very opposed to motions for a resolution. Let us agree to keep a close eye on both of our motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u166	That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u167	That's a sensible intention. I'm in, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u168	It was an introductory remark, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yes. Now to the DOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u170	Yeah, exactly. Mr Boswijk says: we want to go to the EU average. You're gonna need $4 billion. I checked with the CPB: the CDA invests 1.1 billion in Defense. So you're not gonna make it past $4 billion. That's all talk for... The stage! Ping. A waxy nose, apart from the effectiveness of the Defense Department and the missions. We've been talking about that in social media for a while. What does Mr Boswijk really think of the effectiveness of the Dutch mission in Afghanistan? Apart from the respect we both have for the military: how effective was that mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u171	I am glad that Mr Van Dijk is asking this question. It's 1.5 billion, by the way. The EU/NATO average on which we based our CPB calculation was from the corona year before. In many countries, gross domestic product shrunk tremendously. I have also asked the question you are asking internally: how is it that the Minister says 4 billion and in our calculation we come to 1.5 billion? This is because the Dutch economy has done reasonably well, but on average in the EU the economy has fallen enormously in many countries. So that gave us a distorted image. I am glad that you are asking this question and I hope that I have given you a clear answer. If the gross domestic product of other EU countries is to increase, our contribution will also have to increase. But this is the explanation for that space, which is that we just had a corona year. Mr. Van Dijk and I really disagree about the deployment of our armed forces. When I look at how things turned out in Afghanistan, it really hurts me. It wasn't necessary, but I won't say that mission was for nothing. If we had wanted this mission to succeed, I have said that before, we should have had a much longer and much better commitment. I know you don't think so. I always make the comparison with World War II. We have been in Germany for over 50 years. Germany was a reasonably developed country with strong institutions despite all the horrors they've done to a lot of people. Afghanistan is a country where many traditions still date back to the Middle Ages, where many people do not know the idea of land at all, but above all tribes, and where most of the population is illiterate. If you want to reform such a country slightly, and it is naive to think that you can do it all the way to our level, for example, to the level of Afghanistan's neighbouring countries, then 20 years of commitment is far too short. You're gonna have to sit there a lot longer. You should have been there for two generations. Would it have been an impossible assignment? I honestly do not think so, because in recent years there have been around 4,000 Western troops. This is what I accuse us as Western countries: we are very rich, why have we not had the commitment to have been supporting the Afghan Government for longer? We didn't do that. We have thrown a country into chaos and undone a great deal of work that we have done, good work. Was it for nothing? Definitely not. There's an evaluation coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u172	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'm very curious about that. It will be critical, but we must learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u174	We are going to talk about this at many more moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u175	That's a fair point. We must also talk about the chairman of that evaluation, but that aside. Mr Boswijk says very interesting things. He says: we should have been in Afghanistan 40 years longer. We've been there for 20 years and Mr. Boswijk wants to stick to it for another 40 years, but he didn't suggest that and he didn't realize that. He just left with the tail between his legs, after the Americans had decided to do so, as is always the case with those big missions. Then the Netherlands is chasing America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u176	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u177	It is therefore very strange that Mr Boswijk is saying this now, but he has not proposed it. Wouldn't it be much wiser to make you more independent from those Americans? Now that we have seen that this has become a tragic war with so many deaths and victims without any success, should we not operate more independently and not wage war of this kind if they are so little successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u178	Again, I don't agree that the whole mission was for nothing. I also think that this is a sacrifice to many people who have given their souls and salvation and sometimes even their lives for it. It is also not correct that we have not said anything about it at all. In May, when the Article 100 letter came into being, we, as CDA, asked the cabinet several times whether it was wise for us to leave. Shouldn't we abandon the Afghans? How would we continue to support the Afghan military in the long term? We have received the answer several times: no, we do not abandon the Afghans. The expectations were that the Afghan army would be stable. It has turned out differently, we have seen it, but it is not that we have not argued in favour of it. We have always said: we have to be there for a long time. Also in 2010, when we were on the mission back then, we said: we need to stay longer. In the end, other choices were made. Too bad that's how it happened. You really shouldn't have, as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr Jansen has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u180	It was just a few times about the formation. But outside the formation it has been decided to spend 6 or almost 7 billion extra on climate. So I wonder why Mr Boswijk now refers to the formation, when money can be released for that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u181	It's a fair question. That was because there was a verdict from the judge who forced us to make those investments. Our electoral programme says that we want the 2% NATO standard to be legally established. Why? So that people who consider DOD important can go to court to do exactly what climate institutions have done now. They have succeeded, which means that 7 billion has now been allocated in the area of climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u182	I appreciate the thought, but that's actually a weakness offer, isn't it? We can just decide as a chamber to do that, can't we? We don't need a law and a judge to force us to enforce that law, do we? At the end of the day, when we vote on this budget, we can decide to do so. We can do that now. Apparently there is a majority in favour of achieving that 4 billion. Why don't we just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u183	I have just said it in another interrupting debate. Look, if we're gonna do this in all the budget debates... Each spokesperson, of course, considers his subject to be the most important. I'm also a spokesperson for nitrogen. Well, there's a nice job there, too. I would like to arrange this by motion, too, so we can proceed immediately. But it is, of course, a whole where all financial interests come together. If we did this in all the budget debates, it would not be good. Because there are also colleagues in my group who say: well, I think that the defence sector may be a little less important, but I think education is very important. That's their right. But that's why you have to consider the overall picture. So that's why you have to do it with a formation. And then we have parties who think differently about it again and who may not think that 2% is important at all. It's possible. In that light, you have to make those appointments and we have a formation for that. That's all I can add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u184	You give the same answer consistently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u185	It is also nice that people in politics are consistent!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u186	I'm afraid you're inciting business again. There's Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u187	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u188	For all those who are already hungry, I will suspend for lunch after Mr Boswijk's contribution. A brief interruption by Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u189	That's always a good prospect, Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to the comparison that was made with Germany and that we spent a long time there after the Second World War. That comparison's a little limp. In Afghanistan, we kept driving over roadside bombs. Every soldier who served in Germany knows that was not the case there. They were also mostly there for an external enemy, namely for the Soviet Union. So I think that comparison is limp. And then there is the point that we should have stayed there for another 40 years. Is that really Mr Boswijk's belief? We have now committed 2,000 billion and 20 years with a coalition of 46 countries, if I am not mistaken. We've seen the results. We have also seen the power of the Afghan armed forces. Did I understand correctly that the CDA believes that we should have stayed there longer and that we should have continued for 40 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u190	I have tried not to turn it into a Afghanistan debate, but I do think so. With every comparison, there's a limp, so let that be clear. I've talked to several specialists about it. They say that the biggest problem in Afghanistan and in any country that has to develop is that one should learn to read and write. 80% of Afghans are illiterate. We've trained a generation now. Young people who are now 20 years old have gone to school. They have become fairly independent and have experienced elections. You should have held on to that for longer, so that people who can read and write and therefore stand up for themselves will be overwhelmed. They can make themselves more resilient. Now, however, the focus is mainly on the generation of intervention in 2001. The collapse of the Afghan army simply has to do with the fact that people were not paid or barely paid anymore and that the Western troops carried out logistics, intelligence and command until the very last minute. That just hasn't been right. That will also be demonstrated by the evaluation. We should have left the Afghan army on our own feet a long time ago. We should have done that much more gradually. I have a problem with the Afghan army being put up as a cowardly army. Most of the victims have fallen in the Afghan army. There are units that have shot to the last bullet. Because they weren't supplied, it eventually collapsed like a house of cards. You didn't have to. It should have been better; mistakes have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u191	We are going to have this debate. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u192	Let's see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u193	Where were you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u194	Finally, on this point. Not only me, but also the Defense personnel are embarrassed by the anticorona protesters wearing unbearable military uniforms. You have to earn to wear a uniform. We've seen several people with red berets with emblems that don't match. A red beret can only be worn after one of the toughest military training courses there is. These protesters, some veterans, but above all civilians who have purchased military attributes from a dumpstore, besmirch the reputation of the armed forces. The CDA wants the government to enforce more strictly the articles of the Criminal Code which explicitly prohibit citizens from wearing military uniforms, just as citizens should not wear police uniforms or Red Cross emblems. I would like a response from the Minister to the request for stricter enforcement. Visibility and presence of Defense in society. It's important that Defense is more visible in society. This increases the understanding of people for the importance of the work of the military. Think of the support from the Defense Department in tracking down drug labs. Does the Minister see opportunities for this? It may also increase the attractiveness of the profession among young people. Ideally, we make Defense a kind of "school of the nation." The CDA has been advocating social service for a long time. You do not immediately have to think about re-establishing the service, but you can do it in a different form. For example, the CDA is thinking of a turnout day for 18-year-olds, where young adults are introduced to the armed forces. This may contribute to recruitment efforts. Another possibility is that Defense provides training to civilians. I am thinking of resilience training for teenagers, so that they learn how to deal with setbacks and discipline. Another form is training to teach young people information skills: how do you learn to distinguish fake news from real news? Given all the nonsense being spread over the Internet these days, that seems very relevant to me. Another possibility is the introduction of a National Defence Course following Finnish example. This three-and-a-half week course is intended for civil servants, including parliamentarians, business people and the military summit of the country and is organised by the armed forces. During the course participants will receive an overview of Finland's foreign and domestic security and defence policy. It contributes to the resilience of society and leads to understanding and support for the armed forces. Finally, my favourite point in this series: the Special Youth-Royal Army Guidance Course. In this process, problem young people aged 17 to 25 years without a VMBO or MBO diploma and/or with a light criminal record, are accompanied by Defense in a national program. This is a pretty successful program. What possibilities does the Minister see for this to be extended? Then crucial infrastructure. Just before the summer, the totally bizarre story came out that submarine cables had been sabotaged in the Norwegian waters and that a large underwater observatory had been destroyed. It's still unknown who did this, but given the great power needed for this havoc, we can guess. This incident also shows how vulnerable our crucial marine infrastructure is. Last weekend, a survey of HCSS came out, which rightly concluded that in the future about 40% of our energy from windmills will come at sea, but that there has actually not been proper thought about the security and monitoring of windmills, but also data cables. Especially recently, we often see Russian ships patrol the North Sea without giving reasons. How does the Minister envisage better cooperation in this area, together with Norway, the United Kingdom, Belgium and France, for example? Mr. Chairman. The submarines have also been discussed a few times. This is also in line with the previous point on the North Sea, because submarines are extremely important for the Netherlands with its large seaports and our commercial interests worldwide. The CDA therefore attaches great importance to the replacement of the current Walrus class. In addition to these national interests, submarines are also of great international importance. Dutch submarines are of relevance to NATO and the EU, because of their specific characteristics. The reasons why there is no doubt about the CDA. However, we are very concerned about the replacement project. In the letter of 27 October, the Minister writes that a substantial adjustment of the current planning is foreseen. How much longer is it gonna take and why is it taking so long? For the CDA the adopted motion of Hanke Bruins Slot is also important, in which the cabinet is invited to accommodate the design, development, construction, maintenance and final direction of the submarines within the golden triangle. In the letter of 27 October we actually read nothing about this, and certainly not about the Dutch industry. Can the Minister respond to this? How's he handling this? I'm through my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u195	Thank you to Mr Boswijk. There is another question from Mrs Piri to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u196	I thought I would wait for Mr Boswijk to finish his speech. You mentioned earlier that you are always trying to be consistent. I appreciate an always disarming, sincere answer to questions. I wouldn't want to stick to that. My question is this. Together with Mr Boswijk and other colleagues, we have been working hard over the last few months to ensure that the investigation into the evacuation from Kabul is carried out. Again, I appreciate the sincerity of Mr Boswijk, who said immediately on Twitter: the appointment of Mr De Grave is not independent. Now we're gonna do the test on consistency. Do you therefore support a motion from my group to block that appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u197	That's a very fair question. I do tweet a lot. It was a tweet that wasn't right. I'm glad you asked that question. I told you this too: I did it too soon. I hear Mr. Van Dijk agrees with me; then you should always be careful. It was just not nice to communicate about people via Twitter and question their independence. We will have a discussion on this with Mr De Grave shortly. I think it is very important that we know what the whole committee looks like and what research questions are being asked. It's important that we talk about that, but I shouldn't have sent this tweet. That wasn't nice of me. I apologized for that, too. I also told you I shouldn't have done that. So I won't support that motion, but we'll have the conversation soon. You made a proposal to that effect. Then we can have Mr. De Grave on the phone. I'm sorry I'm not consistent, but I also think it's nice that you sometimes acknowledge your mistakes. I hope that compensates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u198	Mrs. Van der Plas, this is your fifth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u199	Yeah, I know. Acknowledged mistakes on Twitter, I know all about them. I'm a huge experience expert in that. It kind of triggers me, because I did see that tweet, too. But it was the initial feeling. That came from the heart. Then my question is: why does Mr Boswijk not support the motion? We were just having a little discussion. Mr Boswijk is a Defence spokesperson. He is of course also the one who gives the input within his party. I think he's been whistled back. But what about in Mr Boswijk's heart? Doesn't he really think it's completely independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u200	I'm not sensitized, if that's the idea. It doesn't really matter to me either. I just shouldn't have done that. I did it too soon. Quite frankly, I should, but a lot of people with me, sometimes count to ten first. My first feeling was indeed what a lot of people had. I'm not going to play hide-and-seek for that. I also understand that it's hard to find people who understand how the organization works. As a result of the tweet I sent out, I also checked to see if it was useful and if it happened more often. I have seen that in the past there have been many former ministers who have led certain committees dealing with something they had ever been in contact with, also because these people often know how the organisation works and what the good questions are to ask. Then the question is, do you trust anyone with that? I think I can trust Mr. De Grave. That's why it wasn't nice of me to spit out my first feeling right away. My lesson is, I have to count to ten. Then you suddenly come to those insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u201	My last interruption, I think. Does Mr Boswijk think that all appearances of conflict of interest should be avoided at all times?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u202	Yes, I do. I totally agree you should, but I've been thinking about this. I thought, "What is Mr. De Grave's interest as a person?" I don't think he has any interest in influencing this investigation. I think he's at a sufficient distance. He's not alone on that committee either. I'm not questioning his integrity here. So I don't think it's nice of myself that I did. I said what I wanted to say about that. That's what I think. So I'm sorry I did that. I won't do it again, at least try.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u203	With these founding words we end this part of the first term from the side of the Chamber. I'll suspend until 1:40 p.m. and then we'll continue with Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
