ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 35654, Amendment of the Temporary Election Law covid-19 for the election of the members of the House of Representatives in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u2	We need the government's first-term response. I would ask Members to take their seats and act silently in the Chamber. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Oh, I understand your microphone isn't working. I'm suspending the meeting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u3	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have found a practical solution; I have moved a table. It is very nice to be here again and it is very nice that this Chamber has wanted to deal with this bill with the necessary speed, because it is an important bill. I have noticed that you have given priority both to the written round and to the planning of this plenary debate. I'm very grateful for that. In less than two months the Lower House elections will be held. The day of the nomination is already next week, namely 1 February. That is why it is desirable that we discuss this today. I understand that you also intend to vote today; at least I hope so. There have been many words of appreciation about everyone who is at work organizing the elections. I've heard that and I'm going to pass it on, because it's quite a job indeed. Organising elections is a job anyway, but that is particularly true for these elections. I will answer the questions in three parts. The questions about preparation, organisation and postponement are one part. A second important issue for many speakers is the vote in writing. I will answer all the questions that have been asked about this. Finally, all other subjects. I will introduce it very briefly, but I will reply to the many questions quite quickly. We are talking about a temporary law that is necessary in order to take the measures we want to take. Everything that happens around elections in the Netherlands is legally anchored or needs legal anchoring. That's why I'm with you for the second time with a bill. Much also needs to be done so that it is safe for voters and the voters can do their job safely. We have already discussed the practical measures here: the 1.5 metres, the hygiene measures with disinfection, the mouth caps, the cough screens, we all know it; nowadays it has become almost normal, but also the extension of the power of attorney, the letter votes for 70-plussers and other measures, such as early voting, so that everyone can participate. Because, of course, it must be able to be a full-fledged election. In the cabinet's opinion, that's possible. This can be done by the measures we are proposing. We see no reason to postpone the Lower House elections; I shall come back to that in a moment. I would like to update both Chambers as soon as possible after the debate here, so if I am assured of support in this Chamber, then I would like to update the state of play regarding the preparation of the Lower House elections. I will also be able to go into more detail in replying in this way to the precise state of affairs with the municipalities in their preparations, so that this Chamber is constantly and continuously informed of the preparations we are making. Mr. Chairman. The first part consists of the organisation and the questions about postponement and other matters. Let me start with the questions about very practical matters, so the polling stations, the polling stations and so on. I would also like to say here that the municipalities really started on time. We have also entered into consultations with the municipalities in a very timely manner. Municipalities have therefore begun to organise these elections in good time and in good time. It's a big deal. It is an organisational challenge for the municipalities. They need to implement new procedures that are just different than they are used to, for example early voting and letter voting. The municipalities do this work. This is work that belongs to them and that they also want to do, but they must of course know themselves supported by the Ministry and they are also supported by the Ministry. The municipalities are confident that this organisation will succeed. They, the municipalities and the VNG, say that there is no need to introduce further measures. There is a limit to what we can ask the municipalities. We are actually completing that process here today with the treatment of this law, this temporary law, I have to say. So the Ministry has carried out an inventory. It has discussed with the municipalities the state of preparation. On the basis of this inventory, these are also the contacts that the support team has with the municipalities. In 2017, there were approximately 9,300 voting rooms. That will have to be substantially more on 15, 16 and 17 March, also because of the possibility of early voting. Overall, the picture is positive at the moment around the polling stations. We're not here yet. It's not like every municipality says: we're all done with the numbers of polling stations. But the picture gives reason to be cautiously positive and optimistic about it. The same is true of the members of the polls. You have seen that we started a recruitment campaign in early December: Each Voice counts. It's there to help municipalities recruit voters. That campaign is actually going very well and leads to a lot of applications. These are notifications that enter centrally on the website Elkstemtelt.nl and notifications that enter directly with the municipalities. Those applications are still pouring in. Here too, there is a very positive picture on the whole, which has not yet been said that every municipality is already fully equipped with a sufficient number of members of the polling bureau. This is also about the distribution, the matching to the needs of the municipalities concerned. Of course you also have to take into account that people have signed up, but still opt out for some reason. Grosso modo is currently a positive picture. This means that it is expected that the municipalities will have sufficient electoral board members and sufficient counters and will also have the support of the Ministry. Mr Janssen asked about financial compensation for the municipalities. Is that enough? That was also a question in the debate with Mr Koole. In consultation with the VNG, a total of 52 million additional compensation has been agreed so that the municipalities can properly prepare these elections. That's more than double what municipalities regularly get reimbursed from the Municipal Fund. So they're getting plenty of support. We have the communication campaign. We have the support team voting rooms. We have the national recruitment campaign. There are webinars, walk-in calls and targeted support, also for municipal officials. In my view, therefore, this financial compensation will enable the municipalities to organise the election in a good way, but the discussion will always remain open, and the municipalities and the VNG know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u5	The Minister is optimistic about getting the necessary polling officers and polling counters. It is very good to hear that, because I hope that there will indeed be enough. My question in the first term was also: what if there are a number of municipalities that do not have enough people? Is there, then, from the Empire, from the government, a support that, for example, allows people to be transferred from one municipality to another, or boas to those municipalities where they do not have enough people in the end, whereas of course the elections have to go through?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u6	Of course. That's a very fair question. I'm assuming. We will repeat what we have now examined, in the form of the inventory in the municipalities, one more time, closer to the elections. Then, of course, you can also be very focused, because then you know exactly where there are bottlenecks and which solution is most appropriate. We have said, for example, that we make it possible for officials to be members of the polling bureau. They don't have to take a day off; they can just go to work as a polling station member. That can be a solution in some cases. Another possibility would be this. There are already people who are disappointed. They're coming in, and the city says, "We actually have enough people already." So on that basis it can be considered whether a redistribution in the region would be possible. That would be another option. There are also companies that have come forward. They say: I would also like to make my employees available to the polling stations, if that is needed, if that is useful or necessary. So I think we should look at those municipalities where we see bottlenecks in the next inventory, but that has to be customised to make sure that they are supplemented, so that we are sure that there are enough people on 15, 16 and 17 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u7	I am pleased to hear that, for example, officials or people could be deployed from companies. I ask the Minister: will that happen in time? I hope so, because of course all these people still have to take a course and be well instructed, so that they can also do their job on the day of the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u8	Agreed. I believe that the next inventory, i.e. the consultation with the municipalities, is at the end of February. That must indeed be well in time for last minute training so that everyone can get ready for work as a polling station member.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u9	Let's talk about the finances. The minister says 50 million has been agreed. This was done in December during the Financial Relations Administrative Consultation. My question to the Minister is as follows. It is not a target benefit; it goes into the Municipal Fund. Is that where the deal was made that you don't have to give back what you're not using, but that this is just a compensation? Is that a kind of final discharge, or is it an intermediate position, if it turns out that because of the situation in March municipalities have to incur a lot more costs? It's been estimated that it could go out by $50 million. But if it turns out that this is not the case, then reference is made to the agreement in the Administrative Consultation Financial relations, or is it said: if it has become more because of circumstances, is it a good thing that you have cooperated, but do we have to look at it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u10	No, I specifically consult with the municipalities, precisely about organising the elections. We think that the VNG also thinks that the municipalities can get away with this agreement. If that is not the case, then there is always the possibility to restart that consultation and see where it has pinched. Then we'll compensate for that. So I want to do that as focused as possible. The finances are in no way a bottleneck in the organisation of these elections, not in advance and not afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u11	Then I welcome this commitment from the Minister that the amount agreed in December does not have to be the final amount if circumstances are different and that, if more is needed to ensure that these elections continue safely on 17 March, it will also be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u12	Yes. I note, however, that I also said that we should not take any further measures. So it is the measures that we will make final after today. The municipalities have also said that we are not in a position to take any more measures. Nor is it necessary to organise it safely, but if the cost of the measures currently in place and the measures taken prior to the temporary law have been misjudged, the agreement is exactly as Mr Janssen now puts it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mr. Janssen, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you right now. Then I will come back to the question later: what if additional measures are needed? This is also a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u15	I just heard about the additional measures. We asked: why does not a polling station be opened at a test street for people who, for example, get corona symptoms on the day or people who came back on the plane a day earlier? I am just pleased to hear that a lot of companies, employees, etc. are going to be able to sign up, and they are going to be able to help. Isn't there also a piece of direction in the central government to support the municipalities and to open that possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u16	I will come back to the questions about the polling stations, the mobile polling stations and that sort of thing. Mr Nicolaï has previously informed about the organisation of a polling room at the coronateststraat. I kept saying that we keep these two things separate. In the test streets, people with complaints can be tested. If these people want to vote, then they're supposed to delegate a power of attorney to someone else. That is how they can vote. We do not provide for a combination of a test street with a polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u17	I was already aware that the Minister's answer was: we do not foresee it. However, my question is: why not? You say you can vote with a power of attorney. For many people who notice that they are suddenly experiencing symptoms in the morning at 11 a.m., it is probably no longer possible to work with the power of attorney. This also applies to people in quarantine. If they go to a situation where people have the same symptoms because they need to be tested, it would be very practical to set up a polling station there. So my question is: why can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u18	It might be practical, but then you would have to set up the polling station differently from what we have now foreseen. We now provide polling stations where all the measures recommended by RIVM are taken, such as mouth caps, cough screens, hygiene, distances and walking directions. It's all decorated like this. In order to ensure maximum security in the polling stations, we ask people with complaints not to go there. Of course, people who have complaints are advised to be tested. They do so by appointment, because they have complaints. Mixing these two things reduces the story that we tell all the voters, namely: you can vote safely at the polling stations. That's why I think it's really important to separate this. I also disagree with Mr Nicolaï's conclusion that there would be no possibility of voting for a person who develops complaints on the day of the elections. That possibility is the power of attorney and the additional power of attorney. I don't think it's necessary that you have anyone around you who could cast that vote on your behalf. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions of delay. I understand very well, of course, that Members are asking me to do so. After all, in the outside world we also get questions about this. I think it is important to repeat here that everything really is focused, and has always been, on ensuring that the elections continue. Elections are essential to our democratic rule of law. The cabinet will therefore make every effort to this end. Under the present circumstances, the cabinet sees no reason to postpone the elections. Of course, we don't control everything. I have to be honest with you. Of course it is; it always is. We also don't control the course of the corona virus. In the unforeseen circumstance that it gets much worse than it is now, you must of course know what to do at the time that delay would be necessary. I have always pointed out that in that case it is not only up to the cabinet, but also to the parliament. It is not only up to the cabinet and the Lower House, but it is also up to the Upper Chamber. After all, it must be regulated by law. It will therefore be a joint decision of the government and parliament. I told you, I will keep the First Chamber informed of all the issues surrounding the preparations for the elections. I thought it was Mr Koole, who asked: until when could he possibly wait for such a delay? When should the decision be taken at the latest? We believe that this can be done shortly before the elections, namely in the week of 8 March. It's all rather theoretical, but it could be in the week of March 8th. Since it is such a heavy decision, if it were necessary to consider it, I would, of course, advise the Council of State on this matter, to the Election Council, and also to the OMT on the coronapandemic. There are, of course, different considerations. The legal considerations are about holding elections in crisis conditions. Other considerations are also about ensuring the electoral process - that is also very important - transparency, access to the elections and the health perspective. Those three advisers could then give their views on that. But once again, with the measures taken and with the commitment of all those involved, including the municipalities, the Ministry and the Election Council, we are in the process of ensuring that, in mid-March, reliable and secure elections can be held. I have faith in that. At the end of February I will inform both Chambers again about the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u19	I would like to thank the Minister for this additional information that she could at least decide until the week of 8 March that the elections will not continue. I agree with the Minister that everything must be aimed at ensuring that the elections continue. I think that's what everyone wants; so do we. But what are the criteria on which the Minister will have to decide, unexpectedly, to submit a law in both chambers? On what basis would that be? When will it be? The Minister just said: unforeseen circumstances; there is no reason to delay. But at some point, you have to know what to do. I am glad that all kinds of bodies are rightly asked for advice, but when is the Minister going to ask for that advice? When is the Minister going to file that bill? What are the criteria for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u20	I thank Mr Koole for clarifying his question. He said that in his first term, too. The reason I didn't answer that along the line of criteria x, y and z is because I don't want to make it absolute. I hope that Mr Koole will forgive me. But if we are to put together a certain criterion here, it will be what will be directed towards it, whereas I rather think that we need to know about it in a number of areas. Is the organization in order? What is the development of COVID-19? What is the likely effect on the election turnout? Those are all relevant topics. On the one hand, I think we agree that it is extremely important that you can hold elections and that you manage to organise them, but on the other hand we recognise that there is a very special situation with a virus that forces us to take all kinds of measures that can have an effect on the turnout in the elections. We're gonna keep looking for that balance and we're gonna keep an eye on it. At some point, we then come to the conclusion that it might be wise now to think about it once more with each other and ask the three advisors mentioned how they look at it. Then we come together, i.e. cabinet and parliament, to a balance. The issues at stake are clear, I think, but there is no hard demarcation limit above or below which you say: it can be done now or can not be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u21	I understand. Exactly what term do you use? I used the term "criteria" and the Minister uses the term "faces." I'd say it's almost the same. They are areas, areas and areas of attention that you pay attention to, such as the health situation. The Minister also mentions the expected turnout. For example, there are more areas that could play a part in the final decision to introduce such a law or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u22	I think Mr Koole says that very well. So it is a weighting in which you weigh all those planes, or subjects, in order to reach a final judgment. As part of the development of the virus, you can, of course, measure all kinds of things, but it is not so that one of these figures can be linked to an automatism in relation to the elections. There are more considerations involved. But I think that this way it is possible for the cabinet to discuss this with Parliament at the right time and reach a common conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u23	I am pleased that the Minister has already mentioned three of these weighting criteria. One of the weighting criteria is the possibility that there is less turnout. At the moment, on the basis of two investigations, it is already established that 10% of the people are not going to vote on corona, but the elections are going to continue, so apparently that is still under the Minister's criterion. But I am curious: if you are already applying a criterion, then you should also be able to indicate a little bit of what range we are going to be in to say that it is going to be problematic to allow the elections to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u24	That's kind of the same point, isn't it? I don't think it's wise to add a hard number to that. I do not want to over-absolute the investigations on this point either. Yesterday, an investigation was carried out that actually showed that the vast majority of voters are now in favour of the elections going ahead. Only a very small minority thinks that you should consider not doing so. That's good. I will say that I consider that to support the course, but that is not the only decisive thing in the end. I think it is important that we, also in our communication, constantly radiate and explain what is happening to make those elections safe to try to get people who are concerned about their own health or vulnerability and who are hesitant or they are going to be those people there of course and so there could undoubtedly be a certain effect on them to get as much as possible across the line. However, as I said earlier, it should be a combination of the development of the pandemic, the possibility for the municipalities to simply organise the elections properly and the possible effects of both of these on people's willingness to vote. Because you want, of course, to have elections, which you will say later, after that, that the legitimacy of the elections must not, of course, be called into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u25	The Minister said she would inform the Chamber at the end of February. Does the Minister now say that she will give this information on these three points, so that we can understand the covid situation, the organization and what is known about the turnout rates at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u26	No, I didn't say it like that. On the development of the pandemic, you will receive regular updates from the Minister, my colleague from VWS, RIVM and other agencies. I'd like to leave that there. I will keep both chambers informed of developments in the organisation of the elections. I am not only going to do this at the end of February; I am going to do so very soon after this debate with, as I have just outlined, a stand-by, also with regard to a lot of practical matters, such as the polling stations, the polling stations and the images that we have at the moment on the basis of research and how people are in it. I will repeat this at the end of February, so that both chambers will know the latest state of affairs just before the elections. You can therefore expect me to keep the Chamber informed of all aspects of the elections. Of course, how the corona virus develops is relevant, but I would consider that. I have just been talking about the unexpected and undesirable case that it is so serious that you should consider postponing the elections. Then, of course, that will also be involved, but I did not intend to include in my coverage the developments surrounding the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u28	I am not quite clear about what is being shared with the Chambers at the end of February, because Mr Koole's question was when you could finally decide. I heard somewhere "March 8th," but then the Minister said, "But at least I'm going to inform you at the end of February." So that's about whether or not the elections are going to happen. If whether or not to proceed with the elections depends on criteria which the Minister has already mentioned three of them, can I expect us as Chambers to be informed about the application of those criteria at that time in the government's weighting to allow the elections to continue or not? I'd like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u29	The Minister, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u30	I have already promised, and I repeat this, that I naturally share all the considerations relevant to the Chamber with both Chambers, including the Upper Chamber. I will do so this week on the state of play now and I will do so at the end of February on the state of play at that time. This is about the whole range of elections, from the financial to the number of volunteers for the polls and polls, as they are known, about the turnout and that sort of thing. That's why I took a little distance from the word "criteria." As far as I am concerned, these are all relevant considerations. The development of the virus, as monitored by VWS, is, of course, precisely why we need to organise this election so differently than otherwise. Of course that is a relevant fact, but it is not that I can say with a look at the dashboard of VWS: oh, are we there, then those elections cannot continue. I think it's a little more complex than that, and that's what I'm trying to share with you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u31	The three facets or weighting criteria, pandemic, municipal organisation and the effects on turnout are considered in conjunction and we will hear that at the end of February. It also means that both Chambers have received the relevant data on those three planes, and perhaps more have also been received, I ask the Minister in the first instance. My second question is about turnout, if that is taken into account. I had asked the question, but perhaps the Minister still comes to that, whether the Ministry itself, from the beginning of February, for example, has a weekly feeling of how people feel about voting at the elections, i.e. through their own investigation. Yesterday Peter Kanne spoke at Op1; the Minister also referred to this. We also heard Maurice the Dog. We have the research on the municipal reclassification, with yet another percentage. It would be a good thing if a good, systematic investigation were carried out by experts or independent agencies that would identify the reasons why people are not going to vote on the basis of questions. The development looked good yesterday according to Peter Kanne. If there were a dramatic development in the willingness to stand up for the elections, I don't know, but would the Minister be willing to organize this kind of information through independent research and share it with the Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u32	Sure, sure. It's already started. The letter I hope to send to the Chambers this week will reflect the initial outcome. By the way, it seems to correspond very much to what was on Op1 yesterday, so Peter Kanne. This is repeated and this will also be part of the information I can send to both chambers at the end of February. What Mr Koole is suggesting is indeed already organised. The only nuance I would like to put to it is that BZK has research done and that there are also bodies that do their own research or on behalf of others. I think you should keep looking at the whole palette. Ultimately, that is one of the considerations and a very relevant one, but of course we do not determine whether or not elections will continue on the basis of polls. There are other aspects that are relevant to this. If things are going to look less good, I would indeed like to have the advice of the Council of State, the Elections Council and the OMT, in addition to our own investigations. I say that to Mr Koole; it is coming. Then I also answered Mr Nicolaï's question as to whether the OMT could be seen at the time when the postponement should be seriously considered. One point that is somewhat related is Mr Van Hattem asked about it and Mrs Baay-Timmerman is also the curfew. We now have a curfew starting at 9:00 p.m. In principle, that curfew is until 9 February. I think the Prime Minister has put it very carefully: the intention is that it should lapse as soon as possible as an instrument. It's the first instrument we want in the trash can. But, of course, you must always keep the option open, for reasons of the development of the pandemic, that it could still be in force. Our Election Act starts from opening hours until 9:00 p.m. Voters who vote very late should be able to go home after that. If the curfew is to be extended and is still valid on those dates, I do not want to anticipate that at all, but that question has been asked to me. We know what it says in the Kieswet, namely: until 9:00 p.m. Again, this is a very bad as-dan situation, but since you pointed that out, I would like to mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I do think it is important that we find a solution to this problem. But I had also linked a second thing to it: the public counting of the votes. So that people who are interested in this can simply be present and by means of a curfew that we hope will not be applicable then can still be present and should not remain at home for this important piece of openness and democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u34	I think that is a justified addition to Mr Van Hattem. So it's about the voters, who should be able to vote until 9 p.m. and still have to be able to go home. It's about the polling station members who have to be able to do their job, even after 9:00 p.m., so as a counter. And it is indeed about the people who should be able to attend the counting. But once again, that is anticipating a situation which I hope will not arise. There were many questions and comments on the voting of letters. Mr Ganzevoort had even made it the only subject in his speech, so you can see how important it is. It's new, too. It is something we have, of course, never done before in the Netherlands except for voters abroad. So I also understand very well the questions and the considerations involved. First of all, the question of age limits. Well, age distinction has to be explanatory and can be defended. So not every distinction on the basis of age is an unjustified distinction, because that should not be allowed. But this distinction is allowed because it has a legitimate purpose. It is a legitimate goal because according to the RIVM, 70-plusers, to which we have asked for advice, are generically vulnerable to the consequences of a coronavirus infection. That is why we have been committed to giving this extra opportunity for people aged 70 and over to vote by letter so that they do not have to go to the polling room if they do not want to. It's okay. So it is a measure which is specific to this objective and which does not go beyond what is strictly necessary. And that is why, in my view, it is an appropriate and appropriate measure to achieve the objective that people aged 70 and over, who are therefore particularly vulnerable to the virus, can vote. And with that, it's a proportional measure. Now Mr Ganzevoort said: a special measure in the event of special elections. But he actually asked: how should you judge that further; should you not generally reflect on what form of letter voices, if you want to allow letter voices, would actually be good or better? I repeat here and I thought that Mr Ganzevoort and others also said that this is a temporary law, which introduces this form of letter vote for these elections alone. That means that you are in no way ahead of what would be desirable in other elections. It is, of course, relevant to look at how these elections are going to take place, and very specifically how these letter votes are going to take place in these elections. So I will, of course, include that in the evaluation. That evaluation will be carried out on the general election, and we will, of course, also look at the letter vote. But it is a necessary measure because of the pandemic and because of the generic vulnerability of this group of people. If you looked at letter voices more generally, we know the objections to them. The Election Council has also made this very clear, and we also know from past research that there is a vulnerability in letter votes. That is also relevant, just as it is relevant that, if you would like to look again at letter votes, you could examine whether you could do letter votes on request; a possibility that we have not been able and wish to offer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u35	I heard the minister explain why the border was laid at those 70 years. And I kind of tasted that that was her answer to the question whether it is actually legitimate to make the distinction there. I suppose that's her answer, too, and she won't come back to that. That's why I'd like to tell her this for a while. Look, the principle of equality says that you always have to look at how you can compare cases and what the background of that comparison is. The background to this is that you want to give vulnerable people an opportunity, give them an extra vote, by introducing letter votes. So the criterion is whether you're vulnerable. So you have to see if everyone over 70 years of age, who has only been found to be among the generic vulnerable groups, is now as vulnerable as people under 70 years of age who, according to RIVM, are also among the vulnerable groups. If they are both actually equally vulnerable, then they are in an equal position, where the law says that you cannot treat them unequally. That is actually the point. The Minister answers why it is proportional that the 70-year-olds and the 70-plussers are given an additional opportunity, but the question is whether you can treat people in an equal position unequally. That is the question and I would like the Minister to reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u36	It is a combination of a number of considerations. One: it is a fact that everyone aged 70 and over is vulnerable when getting infected with the corona virus. That's a statement from the RIVM. I'm not making that up. That's a recommendation from the RIVM. When you are 70 years of age or older, you are much more susceptible to a very severe course of the disease if you get a corona infection. That is a fact and you can also read it on the website of the RIVM. That's why this group is generically vulnerable. However, there are also people under 70 years of age who are also vulnerable to the virus. The question then is whether you are giving these people a good opportunity to vote, although not through the letter vote, which we have only done for the group 70-plus, but in other ways. And the answer is yes, because we will ensure that voting rooms are open on 15 and 16 March, so that we can ensure that this is the way to spread out. We will also call in the campaign those people who know or feel vulnerable to the virus to vote, while the other people will be able to vote on Wednesday, on 17 March. The third option is to give a power of attorney to someone else. I believe that we are creating a wide range of opportunities in this way, including for people who say: I do not want to be in that polling room on 17 March for any health reason. Then go one or two days earlier or get a power of attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u37	If you look at the RIVM site, which the minister rightly refers to, you will see that people with severe lung disease are also considered generically vulnerable. So that's also a group that's generically vulnerable. I would ask the Minister once again to explain why one generic group and the other generic group do not get that additional voting opportunity. That's one. Two: the minister says that there are three other options open to the other group that is not 70-plus, such as the power of attorney. But those possibilities are also open to the 70-plussers. So as far as those possibilities are concerned, both are equal, but only the group of 70-plus gets something extra. And that "something extra" means you're going to mistreat. I have still not been able to hear the Minister explain why this unequal treatment is justified, while it concerns two groups which are both generically vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u38	Of course, there's the point... Mr Nicolaï is right, of course, that there are other groups that are also more vulnerable for health reasons. That's true. Only, I cannot distinguish it on the basis of an objective criterion, namely age. With the people who are 70 years of age or older, who you know are generically vulnerable, you can. That's just a hard thing: you're 70 or older, or you're not. On the other hand, of course, you cannot distinguish people with a medical condition in that way. So then, I think Mr Nicolaï might have hinted a little bit about it, making it possible for everyone to vote in writing. But that has other risks, namely that for example the Election Council, which is not enthusiastic about the whole letter vote anyway, points out that this would be far too vulnerable to the entire electoral process. The other option would be to vote on request, which logistics is another huge operation that you have to consider again. Indeed, we have not chosen to do so, and logistics is hardly feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u39	I am listening to the answer, but the answer is about what logistical steps might have to be taken to make that possible, but the answer is not about why one person is given the right to be denied the other. I'll stick with that. I don't think the Minister has a good eye for that. I think it's even legally questionable. The only possibility is that I agree with the Minister that you are going to treat people equally again. And treating it equally means opening up letter voices to everyone. That is what we have said from the beginning as a group. That's the way to go. If the Minister says that logistics is not possible, she has to prove that logistics is not possible. And that, too, has not been sufficiently demonstrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u40	May I still respond, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u41	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u42	In my written reply, I go into how logistics is already complicated to achieve this, while this is a clear and defined group based on an objective criterion. Opening up or on demand for everyone is even more complicated than logistics. Again, it is about different dimensions and one of the dimensions that I keep missing from Mr Nicolaï is the dimension that you would not want to use if you did not have to. For this group, however, it would be unfair, because generically they are all more vulnerable than people under 70, apart from the problems that people under 70 may have. Otherwise, it would be much more difficult for this group to exercise their voting rights effectively. By offering them this for this time, we're taking care of that group. For the other groups there are other facilities, such as early voting and the extra power of attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr Ganzevoort, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u44	I'd just like to make it a little easier on the minister, because she doesn't have to convince me. I think it's a consideration I understand in these particular circumstances. I ask her if she understands the sanding that Mr Nicolaï is pointing to and which I have asked for. There is, after all, something about this inequality. If we acknowledge that with each other, we don't have to say "now we have to do it this time." Sure! If we use this situation to really reflect on it once again in principle, isn't there just a little more inequality in it, as Mr Nicolaï rightly points out, than the Minister is using in her defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u45	It's a taste issue whether you want to use the word "indiscretion." The fact is, it's a weighting. It is the search for a good balance with, on the one hand, the Election Council, which points to the vulnerability of letter votes at all, including for this group, and on the other hand, the risk that this group may otherwise go to the ballot box much less than usual, which is not fair either. The third dimension is that there are indeed other people in our society who have not left the door for months and do not intend to do so in the elections. They may not be able to vote in writing, but they may have the power of attorney. I hope to get those people to vote on Monday or Tuesday. There is a choice and this leads to differences. If Mr Ganzevoort argues that, I agree with him. If you're not 70 years old, you can't vote for a letter. You can certainly call that an inequality. But there is as much equality as possible, because there are different options for different people and different target groups to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u46	One has more options than the other, and there's part of the inequality in it. I understand very well that it is said that you cannot define other groups so objectively. If that were possible, I think the Minister had a very complicated line of defence, because then she should say: I must also give other groups that I can objectively define the same opportunity. If we agree on this, we have a good starting point for the evaluation, the reflection towards the future and the discussion on whether we really want to do so. Then all the other considerations around the voting of letters will be on the table. It helps if we share the inconvenience with each other and find that there is a bit of inequality here. We say that we find this acceptable for this situation, but we really want it as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u47	Mr Ganzevoort and I agree. Ultimately, if you take all this together and see the importance that we all attach to holding free elections in our democratic rule of law and that we are always looking for the best possible way to organise this for everyone in these circumstances, we will come to this. You do have to make choices. This leads to a certain possibility for one person that the other does not have. On balance, it means that everyone can vote and we can say to everyone: these elections are safe for you and for everyone. I think that's where we got very close.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u48	Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u49	Emergency breaks the law, we agree, and so an emergency bill has been offered. The question is at what price. I am here to check the legality, legal certainty, feasibility and legal sustainability on behalf of the First Chamber and to assess the legislative proposal on those points. It has already been mentioned a few times that there is a tension between the bill and fundamental rights. They are not the least fundamental rights, because they are about equality and age discrimination. These are two important themes, for which you have to have a good responsibility if you want to deviate from them. The arguments used by the Minister are not equally clear on all points. I hear that I said this morning that we are a little much in the experimental sphere: let's take a look and do it now and we'll see in the future. But these are important elections, which are valid for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u50	What's your question, Mr. Raven?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u51	The question comes down to it... The inequality has already been demonstrated by previous speakers. You will have to commit more to the vulnerable. I'm not 70 myself, but I'm a heart patient with diabetes. I therefore belong to that vulnerable group as well. There are countless others, more than 2 million people, who do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u52	I think your question is clear, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u53	So you should make a commitment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u54	Let me make it very clear that I understand very well. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who are less than 70 and who have an underlying condition. You can't see them, but they do have those people, and that's why they're careful. But we are doing everything we can to ensure that this election is conducted safely, so secure that you can also vote with an underlying vulnerability on March 17th. Yet there is doubt about it and people are extra careful. I can understand that. That is why there is the possibility of voting on Monday or Tuesday. We organize it so that there will be spread and you can go to the polling station in peace on Monday and Tuesday. This also applies to everyone, because there is no check at the entrance or anyone who has vulnerability. We will ensure through communication that people know which day is best for them to vote. Again, I find the letter votes for 70-plus legitimate because this is a large group in the Netherlands, 2.4 million people who are generically vulnerable to the effects of the virus, should they be infected with it. It is an additional measure for those people over 70 in whom you see a much greater risk of serious consequences in all statistics. That doesn't change the fact that there are other people in the Netherlands for whoever it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u55	I suggest we move on to the next point. Mr. Raven, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u56	I was talking about legal sustainability. What happens when this is presented to a judge and then it turns out that the judge thinks otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u57	I just argued why I wouldn't expect that. I think it is professional, explanatory and legally sustainable. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u58	This point is now closed. Any other point, Mr. Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u59	This point is ready, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't agree more. We were just talking about the legal sustainability of the distinction to 70-plus. At the end of my first term, I made another point. I do not know whether the Minister is going to go into that or whether it was included in the 70-plus-acceptance block. In the latter case, I have missed the answer. I have pointed out to the Minister that electoral research shows that young people and older people differ greatly in their preferences. In the latest research, about 2017 it says: on average, the youngest voters are found at DENK, Forum voor Democracy and D66 and the oldest at 50PLUS, PvdA and CDA. I was talking about that in my first term. The CDA is overrepresented with the 70-plussers. Doesn't that mean that if you give those 70-pluss an extra vote now when you know that those 70-plussers support certain political parties rather than the rest of the electorate, you run the risk of using a criterion that will work in the election results?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u60	Take it from me that I did not take that into account in any way. It couldn't be. I cannot allow the choice of measures to be determined by what certain groups of voters would or would not do. There's no way that's played out. You can also accept that of this D66 Minister in the event that Mr Nicolaï sketches here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u61	I didn't expect anything else, because we'd really be in a banana republic. Then we don't even have to go to Malta. But my question was: if this information is there and if you calculate it and see what the consequences are, are we not in our shirt if the Netherlands is not in our shirt a bit? Other countries could say: look, they have also organised elections with criteria where you can see in advance even though it is not meant to give certain parties a chance to win more votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u62	No, my concern is that anyone who wants to vote can vote. The proposal I am making is balanced and I have always made the weighting what you need to do extra to ensure that everyone can vote and how you guarantee that the elections are as fair as possible. I will come back to the vulnerabilities of the letter voting and the powers of attorney. We know there are. The Election Council has pointed this out. I actually want to be very reluctant about it. Nevertheless, I think that, with me and both Chambers, I think that we need to do some extra things in order to allow these special elections to continue in these special circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u63	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u64	The Minister doesn't answer the question. Of course, we are doing our best to get everyone to vote as much as possible. But we see 70-plussers getting an extra opportunity. That's the point. It is a question of whether this is legally sensible and sustainable. If that continues in the election results, and you can already see that, then the question arises as to whether you cannot be accused of unintentionally using a criterion that affects the election results. We still don't have an answer to that question and I don't expect the answer to my third attempt now either, so I'm just quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u65	But I think the weighting is clear. I started by saying that people aged 70 and over are generically vulnerable. If I had not made this proposal, someone other than Mr Nicolaï would probably have asked me the opposite. 70-plussers are particularly at a disadvantage, and we wanted to avoid that, but in such a way that all voters of all ages, at least 18 years of age and older, can vote regardless of their medical conditions. The letter voices. I think a lot has already been said about this. Mr Van der Linden made a number of comments on the guarantees in the electoral process. The same applies, of course, to the voting of letters. We already knew the phenomenon, because letter voices used to come from abroad. There was already a certain vulnerability in the electoral process. The same applies to voting by proxy. That's something we already knew in our election process. How can you build in sufficient guarantees and still leave these kinds of possibilities open? Mr Van der Linden will agree with me that these safeguards are not absolute. I just said that to Mr Nicolaï. You have to make a weighting all the time. We recognize the one aspect, especially in the exceptional circumstances we are now in, but accessibility now weighs a little more heavily, hence the possibility of voting by letter. Moreover, this group is also affected by the fact that they do not have to vote by letter. It could also be that a large number of 70-plussers simply go to the polling room. I agree with Mr van der Linden that you should always keep an eye on that. Mr Van der Linden also specifically asked about voting secrecy. This cannot be entirely guaranteed by letter votes, but as much as possible. An example is the separate envelope, in which the ballot must be put by the voter himself. When the letter is opened, the two shall be separated from each other. On the one hand, you have the voting pass.......................................................................................................................................................................... Those two are separated from each other, without the person opening the envelope being able to see what the voter voted at that time. After all, that's in a different envelope. If the vote is valid and the number does not appear in the register of invalid voting cards, the ballot shall be placed in a ballot box. So that's not gonna be seen. It is removed from the envelope and unopened in the ballot box. It is only when counting that it is opened and folded open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u66	Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u67	That's clear. There is a vulnerability, but it is overcome as much as possible. But it is precisely on that voice that a signature must be made. We've asked questions about that, too. If it is put out of the way and it is no longer traceable what its effect is, then what's the point of that signature if at the end it turns out something's wrong? This will never prove the impact on the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u68	I'll be right back on that signature. A separate question was asked about that, which I will come back to in a moment. I am pleased that Mr Van der Linden is now convinced of the example he gave of opening the envelope. Mr Van der Linden also asked whether we should not do an external fraud assessment in advance when voting on the letter. I thought that was a relevant question, just like his other questions. I would like to say to him that we know the risks. Actually, we've known it for a long time. The consultative committee led by Mr Korthals Altes, I am talking about 13 to 14 years ago and I have already carefully analysed the risks of all forms of voting. Before making this proposal, we have recognised and weighed the risks posed by letter voting. We have all taken into account issues such as voting secrecy, freedom of vote and accessibility, as explained in the explanatory memorandum. We have therefore also provided the guarantee of the separate transmission of the letter-voting documents. That really is a threshold we have set. In addition, I would like to mention that a voter who does not get his vote, can apply for a replacement pass and thus prevent abuse of the pass not received, because it is then blocked. There are a lot of that kind of specific safeguards built into the process. Finally, I would like to say aboundingly to the people present here, but perhaps not to the outside world, that the abuse of another's voting card is punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u69	Mr Van der Linden also pointed out that, I believe, he referred to the answers in the written round that was not signed as a vote, which does not mean that the vote would not count. But in Article 11c I read: 'The electorate shall sign the declaration made on the voting right that he has personally completed the ballot'. Then it just says in the law that you have to sign it, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u70	Yeah, that's right. I'll get back to you on that. You have to sign unless you can't sign. I'll get back to you on that, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linden also asked what we are doing about public campaigns to ensure that people are really well informed, including about the introduction of the letter vote. I have already referred to the website elkstemtelt.nl. That website pays attention to, among other things, the vote by letter and all measures taken to ensure that the vote by the voter actually counts. The electorate who can vote by letter will also be informed about how that vote is done by letter. For example, these voters are reminded that they can issue their letter vote at the municipal issuing point, so that they can also see for themselves that their letter vote has been received, and that the letter vote has a date stamp indicating that the vote has been cast on time. On all such matters we will communicate with the people in detail, of course also about how it works exactly and how you handle it safely. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked for a guarantee that a ballot note issued at a polling station would be included. That's a guarantee I can give you. The starting point is that the recipient return envelope containing the letter vote is issued at a delivery point established for that purpose, or is sent by post and thus ends up at the polling station. Should the voter issue a return envelope at an ordinary polling station, the polling office will keep that envelope and then transfer it to the letter voting office after the vote, so that that vote also counts. So all three routes lead to the vote count. Mrs Baay-Timmerman also asked what would happen if a letter vote ended up in an ordinary ballot box. That voice will be invalid. There is no other way, because a voter can only vote once. This means that when you come to a polling station with your letter vote, you give that letter vote to a member of the polling station and you don't put it in the ballot box. That can't actually happen, because there's always one member of the polling station watching the ballot box. That is where only the ballots filled in in the voting booth can end up. Those are the voters who leave the polling station again along the ballot box. So if someone walked in from the outside, straight to the ballot box, it would be stopped. Mr Van Hattem had a question about the identity card and the vote. His suggestion was that letter voters would send a copy of their ID. That would raise a high threshold, because then people have to somehow get a copy of their ID. Not everyone has the stuff in the house to take care of that at home. To do that, you'd have to go somewhere again, while it's just about people who might not like to leave the house. So that's a high threshold. Moreover, our policy is precisely to be very reluctant to provide copies of your ID because of fraud. So we're not encouraging you to have copies of your ID at home. In the process as it is now arranged, it is not necessary either. Mr Van Hattem also asked whether agreements had been reached with the Public Prosecutor, for example on combating recruitment by letter votes or by proxy votes. He also asked what preventive measures had been taken. This week there will be consultations between the Election Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The outcome of that consultation will be included in a further letter which I will send to your Chamber. I have just said that on the voting card and on the vote, it is explicitly stated that abuse is punishable. If there is any indication of recruitment, it must be reported so that the prosecution can take action. Then the question of the signature on the vote. By putting a signature on the vote (plus) card, the voter declares that he personally filled out the ballot. That's the purpose of that. It is therefore punishable if someone else would use it; that is what it says. If the signature is missing, the vote (plus) pass is still valid. The reason for this is that not all voters are able to sign their own papers. If those voters were not allowed to vote in favour, that group would be disadvantaged. Invalidity of the vote (plus) pass for that reason we therefore found it too far gone. By the way, those people who have IDs are that they are not able to sign for physical reasons. Of all the people who can sign it, we would like to have it, because if there is evidence of fraud afterwards, that signature can still be examined. In the context of a possible criminal investigation, I do not hope that all this is necessary, but that could be done by experts to see if the signature placed is correct and belongs to that person. We could have done it without a signature, but then no criminal investigation would be possible afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u71	I hear the Minister say that a vote (plus) pass without signature is in principle valid or even always valid. At the same time I hear her say that people who cannot sign, for whomever it is intended, have a special note on their ID. Would it not be better, in order to prevent fraud, to declare valid only those voting cards in which such a note on the ID and other voting cards is still invalid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u72	But if no signature is signed, then a copy of the ID should still be required from everyone. I just argued that I think that's a vulnerability in the process. The choice that has been made is that it doesn't have to. We know there's a group that isn't able to sign. I expect that correspondingly a number of voices (plus) passes will be found without signature. We'll see it in practice, but this seems like a workable way to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u73	But then you get the situation that I outlined in my first term: if someone is really consciously malicious and wants to commit fraud, then the easiest way to do so is not to sign, because the vote is always valid. Isn't there a way to figure out how to verify that better and a vote (plus) pass without signature can actually be linked to a note on the ID proof instead of this vote (plus) pass being declared valid at all times? Isn't there some kind of safety valve for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u74	This is another choice. Mr Van Hattem would prefer us to prevent this possible form of abuse or fraud by demanding the copy of the ID. I have just argued that this brings risks and obstacles to other people, for whom it is difficult to obtain such a copy. Again, it's a trade-off. I admit that. If you want to be 100% or 99.9% sure that it can never happen at all that this way is abused, then perhaps you should choose the route-Van Hattem. On the other hand, you would be failing other people, who would not be able to vote. This is the choice we made. Once again, taking advantage of this possibility of voting must not be allowed. Using someone else's voice is a forbidden act. It's not allowed. We have safeguards in place, for example the separate sending of the voice (plus) card and the ballot note, to prevent the envelope from coming into the wrong hands with both. That kind of safety valves are built in. In my view, that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u75	Mr Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u76	I always think it's a little shortsighted to think it's enough to do it that way. There is simply a risk that evildoers can take advantage of this opportunity. At the same time, the Minister says that she has a reasonable picture of the number of people who have such a note in their ID, so there can never be so many. But what can you do with that information afterwards? Pretty little. Should the elections be declared invalid if it appears that a much larger number of those votes have suddenly been cast without a signature? How can you use a serious means to prevent fraud, to detect fraud and to ensure that it is not abused if it is a valid vote in all cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u77	If Mr Van Hattem asks if I can guarantee that there can be no abuse in all cases, I say: I cannot guarantee that. But that is the choice that comes with the voting of letters. There are risks in that. The only way to be 100% sure that someone is voting for themselves is as a member of the polls to find that someone goes into the voting booth alone and comes out and puts the bill in the ballot box. That's the only way to be 100% sure. That is precisely the reason why, for example, the Election Council is critical of the phenomenon of letter voting. If you want to do that letter voice anyway, because of the fact that there are special reasons that I'm not going to repeat, then you also accept that there is a risk in it. You try to limit that as much as possible by a series of measures, including putting the signature on the vote (plus) pass. Within that group there is a smaller group that is unable to do so. We believe that it should also be possible for those people to vote. That is why we accept a small risk. On the other hand, the possibility of criminal investigations is open by signing it, at least in other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u78	The Minister talks about choices made. I am only a simple lawyer, but the following is a legal provision: "The electorate shall sign the declaration made on the voting right that he has personally completed the ballot." It does not say: unless the person concerned is unable to sign it. So it just says that every ballot must be signed. It is good that the Minister is making this point, apart from the question of exactly how many people are involved. In any case, it is legally regulated that there should be a signature on it. That reassured me, too. I am somewhat surprised that it is now said that you can also give a valid statement without a signature. So I do agree with Mr Van Hattem. How many people are we talking about right now? I assume it's people who might be physically handicapped. They'll still be helped by other people. If people help them, they can also possibly attach a copy of the ID showing that the person concerned cannot sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u79	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u80	I would like to ask the Minister whether she can make a promise that she will take care of this with an emergency bill. Otherwise, I think the people who say they're being tampered with are getting right, or we're gonna have a fight in court and people are saying that there are ballots that shouldn't have been counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u81	I'm not gonna give you an emergency bill. I just said at the beginning that we can't do that anymore. But I'd like to make one more attempt to explain. The vote (plus) pass is signed by anyone who is able to sign it. There's a group of people I'm gonna see if I can still figure out how big that group is... who aren't physically able to put that signature and who have it marked in their own ID. The reason, therefore, to count the vote (plus) passes that do not have a signature, is that not every voter is able to sign himself. That group would be at a disadvantage when you didn't count it. That is why we did not want to proceed with invalidation of that vote (plus) passes without signature. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u82	Can the Minister then indicate to me the provision which shows that some people do not have to sign it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u83	I will come back to that in the second term, if that proves it. But it's just the fact that we know that there's a group of people who haven't signed it in their own ID either. This provision has been made for this group of people. And for the vast group: you put a signature on your voice (plus) pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u84	You'll get back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u85	On 16 and 17 March it is intended that the people who are vulnerable will vote. But if they vote non-vulnerables, they won't be refused because you can't control it. So if I report on 16 March, I can just vote because no one knows whether or not I'm vulnerable. I have looked it up for a moment, because Mr Nicolaï looks like a young god, but has passed the 70. If Mr Nicolaï is now voting by letter without signing, then I think his vote is valid, because no one can check whether Mr Nicolaï is able to sign it, because it is separate. Why, then, is the obligation to sign the letter when you do not allow that obligation to apply on 16 and 17 March, because it is not verifiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u86	15 and 16 March means Mr Van der Burg. I hear him say "excus," but that's okay. I need to think. It's two different situations. It is true what Mr Van der Burg says. If you vote on 15 and 16 March, no one will be at the polling station to ask if you belong to a group of vulnerable people. So we only do that in communication. I am counting on that communication, and also a little bit of the habit we have of voting on Wednesday, to be held on 17 March, the elections will indeed lead to spreading and quiet voting rooms on 15 and 16 March. In my view, that is a different situation, namely not checking the vulnerability of one's health, but the signature, because this is about the letter vote. Those are two completely different situations. So what Mr Van der Burg is sketching is true, but I do not quite see the parallel yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u87	There are 2.4 million people, I believe, who are entitled to vote in writing. Let's just say 2 million people are going to vote for that. If 1 million out of those 2 million people don't sign for any reason, that's substantially more than the people who have in their passports that they can't sign. But that will not have any effect on the outcome, because all those million votes will be declared valid. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u88	Yeah, that's right. But let's also be real. People get the opportunity to vote in letters. They're gonna see how to do that. First of all, put your signature on the voting card, because it indicates that you yourself have cast that vote. My expectation is that the vast majority of those who are going to vote in writing will do the same. We can, of course, advertise a lot here for not putting that signature. No, that's not the instruction people are going to get. The people of 70-plus who are going to vote for a letter will be instructed to "signature the vote" in order to demonstrate that they themselves have made the choice that has been filled in on the ballot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u89	Mr Van der Burg, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u90	So that's the last one, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am not arguing for the non-signature. But I can hardly imagine that there are people who cannot sign, but who can fill out the ballot on their own. So at the moment when you can't sign, you need to be helped in filling out the ballot, and then, as Mr Van Hattem said, I think you can also be asked to add, for example, a copy of the passport, which shows that you don't have to sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u91	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u92	I have to give the facts here. It is a fact that the following appointment has been made: if there is a vote (plus) pass that has no signature on it, then this vote counts. That'll be about a small group. The vast majority of the letter voters will have put the signature neatly. This is about the small number of people who cannot sign themselves, but are able to vote for themselves. That's a small group, but it's fair to that group not to harm them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u93	I would like to continue with that. It was just as rightly pointed out by Mr Van der Burg. Surely there must be an opportunity to prevent the small group that cannot sign from turning into a very large group of voices that are sent in without signatures? This vote (plus) passes must then be declared valid, giving rise to doubts as to whether they might be fraudulent. Here's what I'm wondering. The Minister had reservations about sending a copy of the ID. I understand that this has practical and safety concerns. There are also other ways to show that someone cannot sign and has a note in his ID, for example by filling in the ID number on the form. This makes it verifiable whether the ID is an ID with a note. It can also be done, for example, by adding a doctor's certificate. For example, if people cannot sign a notary's certificate, they must also issue an authorisation there. So there are a lot of situations where this is the case. Then something must be arranged. It can also be done with DigiD, for example. If people need help filling out the papers, then something can also be arranged with DigiD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u94	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u95	I have the following question: can the Minister really not look at a safe intermediate step, which can easily be carried out, such as filling in the document number, so that this intermediate step can still be brought into the process in this way? In my opinion, there is still room in time and in the possibilities of creating a form for this to be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u96	I appreciate the fact that this is being looked at and asked for, but I also said that what is now here is what we can do. Anything I'd like to change, I'd have to change legally. There's no time for that anymore. I would point out that the reason for putting the signature on the vote is that we would like voters to know how this process works. By signing, they indicate that they have cast their own votes. This will also be the case in the case of the vast number of letter votes that have been issued. It goes without saying that I am involved in the evaluation. I will also consider in the evaluation whether this has occurred to a large extent. If there are many more voices (plus) passes without signature than you expected in advance, then this might also be a clue to take a good look at them again. But the opposite is also true. I would like to draw the attention of Mr Van Hattem and others to this. If we wanted to look afterwards on the basis of clues as to whether fraud has been committed, it might be useful that, for the most part, these signatures have been issued. So it is a risk, but in my view it is a clear risk, which has also been weighed against other disadvantages. This is the choice that has been made. I would like to pledge to the House that it will be very careful when assessing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u97	Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u98	I thank the Minister for the commitment. But that is wisdom afterwards and then evil may already have happened. The point is that if this happens, we might be sitting with a whole pile of unsigned voices. That's what we need to avoid. The minister says, "I have to take care of it legally." I do not think that is necessary, because the law says that there should be a signature on it. That is the starting point. In my view, these additional arrangements are simply to be incorporated into a ministerial arrangement or into a decision, and they can be adapted more easily. Maybe they even need to be determined. So if the Minister establishes a ministerial arrangement for the form, it can be done again or adjusted. I do not think it is necessary to change the law for this, but I would like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u99	I said I wouldn't do it to anyone anymore to make any changes to the process that we have now set up. The municipalities also await the outcome of this debate with regret. They'd like to know what they're up to. I think it's important that if we change anything around the election, we do it all the way down the royal road, so just record everything in the law. We have now organised the vote in such a way that we have agreed that the signature of the vote is the expression of the voter that he or she has personally filled in the ballot. We also communicate extensively that it is punishable to use someone else's voice (plus) pass. It is also checked when opening the envelope that the voice is real. The signature also plays a role in this. Mr Van Hattem pointed out that, in a limited number of cases, there might be a vote without a signature. Then you won't be able to trace back if there's fraud. He is more important than the importance that I bear in mind, namely that anyone who wants to vote must also be able to vote, including those people who are physically unable to sign it. That's the difference that lies here now. That's a fact. There is a difference of opinion, but that does not make the elections impossible in my view. This is a really small part. I will tell the Chamber to pay attention to this in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u100	I am satisfied with the latter, because it will make it clear whether there were irregularities. However, it remains a bit abrasive that on the one hand the signature is used to ensure the integrity of a voice, and on the other hand that voice counts if it is not on it afterwards. People who want to be angry will, of course, send in voting forms without their signature, because they do count. It's unverifiable. What is the Minister's view of this? Suppose there are an x-number of polling rooms in the Netherlands where, for example, there are twenty times as many unsigned forms as in other polling rooms. Does that mean that the result of these voting rooms will be declared invalid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u101	No. What is possible is that the Election Council or anyone else sees that as a reason to investigate that further or even to report it, so that the prosecution can investigate it further. I therefore believe that this should be dealt with in the same way as possible instructions for recruitment: declaration and investigation. These are criminal offences, and they must be dealt with seriously. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions on this part before I get to the other points. Mr Van Hattem asked about PostNL. PostNL has indicated that it will organise a separate process for the processing of the letter votes. I am talking about the voters who put the ticket in the mailbox themselves. PostNL will ensure that there are as few links in their process as possible. Each link less is again a reduction in the possibility of errors. They will use extra permanent staff for sorting up to and including delivery to the municipality. And there's a manual one hundred percent check on the machining. Also at PostNL they are fully aware of the fact that we are doing something new here and that they have an important role in this. They therefore recognise the importance of a very careful processing of those letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u102	In itself, these seem to be sufficient measures. You just put a very important part of the election process in the hands of a private company. I myself have the experience that applying for a P.O. Box where a small mistake is made already provides a month-long exercise from the cabinet to the wall. But now we have to trust at once that this company is going to work out in one go. Will the Minister ensure, for example, that observers from the government within PostNL are present to check whether all these processes are actually being followed there? Or is it really left entirely to the company?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u103	There are, of course, other parts of the process that are done by private parties; think about printing the notes and that sort of thing. In itself, we just need PostNL to do this. I was just saying that I am actually pleased that PostNL also says that it understands the importance of this and that it is also willing to take this into account in its process, for example by ensuring that there are as few links as possible and by ensuring that there really is a hundred percent control over everything that happens there. We made good agreements on that. We have also made good agreements with PostNL that we can check with them afterwards on the basis of their own audit of the whole process. So there is a very good cooperation, I think. If it didn't go well, I'll tell you about it too. But of course it is part of the agreements with PostNL that we have sufficient insight into this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u104	Insight is good, but control is better. Doesn't the minister really see the need to put people in the PostNL business process from the government, the ministry, who also physically check whether this process is being properly followed, or whether there are any unlawful acts taking place in the sorting of those letters? Is there any way of looking at this process, so that it is better guaranteed and we do not subsequently find whole mail bags with letter voices that have been sidelined by a temp?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u105	We're dealing with a professional company that I don't think ever leaves mail bags in a corner somewhere, and certainly not now. I get that guarantee in advance and we will check afterwards whether that went well. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u106	I was wondering if we could put some sort of square in it, where the voter in a central place reports that he has voted in writing, and indeed the votes that come in through PostNL are counted neatly. Then you have a square, just like the other votes are checked at a polling station or polling station. Then you have a one-on-one relationship. Now you leave it to PostNL to release the control a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u107	The letter tuner has several ways of expressing his voice. If you want to be sure that the letter tuner has arrived, then there is the issue point at the municipality. Then you couldn't go to the congregation on 15, 16 or 17 March, but you could drop off the letter yourself or let someone else do that who knows you well and trusts you. But to anyone who says: I do letter voting by doing it on the bus, I would like to say that this is also safe in the Netherlands. We have a good postal service and we have now agreed with the company to do so even more carefully because of the importance of the electoral process, with fewer links. The secret of voting must be respected, so it is difficult to introduce a process where the voice can somehow be traced back to the sender. I think we have overcome this by the way in which we can distinguish the letter votes and the other votes from each other. I just outlined the process of opening the envelope and doing it with the letter voice at the place where it can be counted. At the end, in the evaluation, we have a good overview of how people voted. Did they vote themselves or by letter? If people voted by letter, how many people put the letter on the bus and how many people delivered it at the drop-off point or even at the polling station? These are all things that can be seen afterwards and to which we can then draw our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u108	With this you have not yet overcome the gap of the possible disappearance of post at PostNL. A square system could improve that. Then you can see that there would be so many voices coming in through the mail and that fewer have come in. Then you have direct control of that, as is customary with the polling stations. The turnout is counted and so many voices have to get out of the bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u109	Mr Raven pretends that there are all kinds of risks in voting in the letter, but of course that is not the case. We send a lot of mail here, for example the voting cards. They all come to us by post, including those who do not vote in writing but simply vote for themselves. In that respect, I do not think that additional risks are introduced into that part of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u110	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u111	It is not unusual for voters not to have their voting cards. There are indeed certain mechanisms to correct that. Then you can report to the central polling station or to the municipality, as is known. If a vote does not arrive via PostNL, there is no further control and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u112	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to continue with the other questions that have been asked, starting with Mr Van der Linden's question on the expiry date of the law, 1 July this year. It is a temporary law, and it must of course have an end date. We have foreseen in this temporary law that those elections will now be held on 17 March. Well, of course, we don't know if this law will be necessary further along in time. Hence the law provides for the possibility of an extension. So it says that by royal decree he can be renewed for six months each; Article 30 (2). Then an election could indeed take place under the same rules, if necessary. By the way, it's a KB that's gonna be hung from both chambers. It is an extension which I am not currently preparing, but which could be arranged towards May/June. In any case, we have a reclassificational election in November. Speaking of reclassification elections... Some questions were asked about that, too. "What about the turnout?', was one of the questions. At the reclassification elections we held last November, turnout was stable. The turnout was 45% to 51% in the various municipalities. That's common practice in reclassification elections. And research has shown that of the non-voters, about 20% have mentioned corona as the main reason or additional reason. I have just said that there are also investigations into the Lower House elections. I was just talking about I&D Research, which was at Op1 yesterday. I believe that Mr Nicolaï has quoted a poll by De Dog. Well, at I&D Research it was only a very small percentage that said they wouldn't vote because of corona. I have already said that we will also have our own investigations carried out, that I will send the outcome to the Chamber in the very near future and that I will repeat it; I just said that in response to Mr Koole. But the image that emerges from it is about the same, so at the moment it's just a small group that wouldn't want to vote for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u113	Just a little question to clarify. The Minister is talking about a possible extension. This is a law that deals with the Lower House elections, but she is now talking about reclassification elections. Does this law just apply to it, or how am I supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u114	Yes. In the reclassification elections we held, the previous law was already in force. So a number of measures under that law were already in place back then. That was about, for example, the layout of the polling stations and that sort of thing. But of course that doesn't matter what kind of election they are. So those 1.5 meters, hygiene measures and that kind of thing were covered by that law, and the extensions we provide for in this law, you could possibly also apply to other elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u115	"May declare applicable." The question is: are they by definition? Because if I at least read the introductory wording of this law, it is specifically about Lower House elections. So it automatically applies to all elections during this period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u116	Yes, these measures can then be applied in elections, where it sees that we are all going to vote as Dutch citizens. That's what it looks like. But then we have to extend the law, because otherwise, of course, we can't. For the time being, therefore, he sees only this election, because it also simply stops on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u117	But that's my question. You keep saying "can" you apply. My question is: does this law apply to it by definition, because the preamble to the law says "this is about the House of Representatives." So there is a confusion about whether it is valid in itself at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u118	This is a temporary law, which applies until 1 July. During that period, only one election is foreseen, and these are the Lower House elections of 15, 16 and 17 March. If you want to extend the law and use it for other elections, it is of course exactly the same measures, let us be honest. I'll check this out. I will give an even more precise answer to this question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u119	Mr. Chairman. I understand that, at the time we saw in May/June that we would still not be able to vote in a normal way at the November elections, read: one and a half years ago and before that you would like to extend this law. But the arguments put forward by the Minister against Mr Nicolaï, as I say, to limit the voting of letters to 70-year-olds, they are no longer valid. Because if we know in June that we are going to vote by letter in November in the reclassification elections, the argument of 'we can never print 13 million letter voting cards' can no longer be used. So that part would still be modified or modified. need to be replaced? Don't you agree, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u120	This is a temporary law. I would like to say to Mr Ganzevoort that he sees it at all elections; I have just checked it out. So if you extend the law, it can also be used for reclassification elections or other elections. I very much agree with Mr Van der Burg that we cannot now see at all what the situation is like in the autumn, let alone in the spring, let alone in the next elections. I can very well imagine that the development of vaccines, the virus and all the measures we take together also make the world look different. In addition, as far as I am concerned, and I thought, as far as this Chamber is concerned, that this form of letter voting is appropriate to the current circumstances. So if circumstances change, I can imagine you'd want it different. Then a one-to-one extension of this law would be less obvious. I think that Mr Van der Burg and I agree. I'm gonna be on the power of attorney. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked for the extension from two to three. She and others rightly pointed out that there are always risks of voting with powers of attorney. That's right. Only, I've weighed those risks against the fact that that power of attorney is a safety net for people who wouldn't be able to vote otherwise. In order to give those people that possibility, in these circumstances, with corona, I have allowed it to weigh more heavily. So that has a lot to do with the current circumstances, because otherwise you would rather not do so. We know about the vulnerability. Again, the proxy taker may issue the proxy vote only at the same time as his or her own vote and with a copy of the proxy giver's identity card. For those same people, it is important that Mr Koole also said that they also know that there is a possibility. We will also make that part of the national information campaign. At the heart of that campaign are all the measures taken to ensure that voting is safe in the polling rooms, but that campaign will also address the other options you have as a voter, i.e. the power of attorney and the letter vote for 70-plus. I think that on the basis of all the communication that is taking place, both with the campaign and with the communication that you get as a voter when you receive your stuff at home, we can make it sufficiently clear to everyone what options there are. Once again, I will at least give the Chamber two more detailed information. In a sort of interim debate between Mr Otten and Mr Dittrich, the suspension of counting has just been discussed. Perhaps it would be a good idea to clarify that point, because this law also contains rules for this. The counting of votes cast at the regular polling stations starts at 9 p.m. on 17 March. That can take a long time to count. The turnout is traditionally high during the Lower House elections. The ballots are big. By the way, we don't even know how big yet. That will also depend on the number of parties involved. If at some point the counters become so tired that a careful count can no longer reasonably be present, then the president of the polling station can suspend the count and continue the next day. Moreover, this must always be done in accordance with and in agreement with the mayor and can only be done after the totals per party have been established. At that time, there are rules on the storage of voting documents. So we have to do that with surveillance and security during the night and also if necessary for transport to it. So that will be done very carefully. That option exists and will certainly be used, but it will be surrounded by many safeguards. Further questions were asked about the counting of the letter votes. It is true that Mr Janssen noted in the documents that this can start on Wednesday morning. Oh, that was not Mr Janssen, well then it was one of the other speakers, excuses. The counting of the letter votes can therefore begin on Wednesday morning or later; this is decided by the College of B and W. That part of the counting may also be attended by voters. That's also public. So the location where the count is counted and the time when the count starts must all be communicated. That must be public information. This can be done on the municipal website, in the home-to-home magazines or anywhere, so that interested parties know where and what time they can go there. I also think that the openness of that counting is a great thing. Of course, we know that's gonna be different now because of corona. The usual corona rules will have to be respected. Depending on the location, it might mean that fewer people can access it and that there might need to be some rotation. It's public, so anyone who wants it should be able to experience a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u121	I think I asked that question about counting in the early morning. I asked if you could. The answer says: the letter votes and the votes cast on Monday 15 and Tuesday 16 March are all counted in public on Wednesday 17 March. At the same time, it says that this can happen from 07.30 a.m. I repeat my question now. If someone wants to attend that count, what time does he have to go to that count room? At 7:30 in the morning? At 9:00 p.m.? Or does he have to wait all day for the president of the polling room to say "we're gonna count"? Then the chairman, if he's angry, could wait until the moment someone like that just went to lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u122	Wasn't it Mr. Otten who asked that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u123	I do not know why I would confuse Mr Koole, Mr Otten and Mr Janssen. There's no reason for that, but it did happen. The answer is that the normal count starts after closing the ballot boxes, at 9:00 p.m. People who want to, from that moment on, can attend the count at the place where it is counted. There is no counting in every polling station. If the polling station is suitable for voting but not for counting, the votes will be moved to another place. If a municipality so wishes, the municipality can start counting the letter votes earlier. That is why I have just said: the municipality must make known to the inhabitants where and from when they are counted. So, from 07:30 in the morning, at least if you live in a municipality where counting actually starts at that time. Please consult the website of your municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u124	But that means that those people who want to attend the whole voting process, both of the ordinary votes and of the letter votes, should be present at the location from 07.30 a.m. until late at night after 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u125	I do not know if Mr Koole knows people who would really like to attend the whole counting process, but that would be the consequence. It also depends on how it is organised in the various municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u126	Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u127	If there is a great deal of interest in it, I can imagine that municipalities also ask to rotate a little so that other interested parties can share in the counting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u128	It is a right for every individual citizen to attend the census. It doesn't depend on the amount of interest. If one citizen wants to do so, there are citizens who want to sit with it all the time. It could be that he has to be present from 07.30 a.m. until late at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u129	If anyone wants to, they do. It's public. It's open to everyone. I have just said that because of the limited space and possible great interest it might be possible for municipalities to ask people here on the spot if they are willing to make room for others. What Mr Koole is sketching might be. If someone insists on it and wills and can sustain it, it could.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u130	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u131	Then why is it not suggested to the municipalities to start counting all the votes only after 9 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u132	That's what I just said. There will be a high turnout and it will take more time anyway because also the counters have to respect the 1.5 meters and work with the hygiene measures. There is also the vote in the letter and possibly even bigger ballots. There are all kinds of reasons why counting the votes will really take some time. It saves a lot if you've already been able to count those letter voices. Then you've already had that part. This also allows the people who are counting from 9 p.m. on. It is a very practical reason and it does not affect the openness of counting. Mr Otten made a comment on the possibility of webcams when counting. Mr Otten is not here, I see. It's public, so anyone who wants to attend it should have the opportunity. There is in itself no legal barrier for municipalities to use webcams, but it must be in line with the GDPR. This means that people who do not want to do so should not come into the picture recognizably. This is particularly true of the counters that are at work. So it could be, provided that that is thought of. Mr Van Hattem asked about the transport of the voting documents. We have established this in a ministerial arrangement, which will enter into force at the same time as this law. The main lines of these rules are as follows: The carriage must be supervised by at least two persons. Transport and storage of the ballot box on the one hand and the minutes on the other hand must be separated. The separate storage shall take place in an appropriate facility, such as a closed, anti-burglar value cabinet or safe, or in a room equipped with burglar alarm systems and connected to an authorised alarm system. The third option is a space that is under permanent physical surveillance. Then the early voting locations. The Chamber knows that we have said: depending on the size of the municipality at least one and for large municipalities at least twenty. It comes up in one of those stairs. It is quite difficult for the municipality to find enough places for three days, locations that are also suitable for the corona rules. It is therefore not practicable for the municipality to man all the polling stations all three days with four polling stations. That is why we have prescribed a minimum number of voting rooms open on Mondays and Tuesdays, in proportion to the number of voters. So that is at least one for really small municipalities, less than 10,000 voters. However, municipalities are free to designate more than the minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u133	I hear the Minister say that the votes already cast on Monday and Tuesday must be stored in secure areas and so on. In the opinion of the VNG, it was true that some municipalities do not have such spaces or have suitable safes. Can the Minister state what concrete steps are being taken to ensure that this is adequately resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u134	I outlined the three possibilities that exist for this. Municipalities must have one of these possibilities if they are to take care of it. If you have no anti-burglar value safe, you can also choose a space that is under 24-hour surveillance. So there are three different options. I have one more question to answer. Ms Baay-Timmerman drew attention to the testing of polling stations. I have said before that we cannot commit to a PCR test for people who want to be members of a polling station. In any case, we ensure that the municipality actively brings the health check to the attention of all voters. Members of the polling bureau shall be informed in advance of this. If you're a member of the polls, you can't go to work. Therefore, the municipalities know that they must have a large stock of people in reserve who are last minute deployable in case people have to drop out. I have already told Mrs Baay that I am in agreement with VWS to see how you can make it possible for voters who want to take such a test. Finally, there was a question from Mr Van Hattem about the software for the elections. He mentioned a possible risk in a company. There is a discussion in Germany about the vulnerability of a product in electronic voting, but this is about a very different software from the software used by the Election Council. Therefore, the risk he referred to in Germany does not apply. I would add: we vote manually, with the red pencil, on paper. We also count it manually and record it in a police report. There's no software involved. The results per polling station are made public and can be checked by everyone. The subsequent additions are carried out by the Municipality and the Election Council using that supporting software, OSV. This makes it possible to carry out the results carefully in a short time. The Election Council will have the supporting software tested and investigated for each election. HackDefense did that on the order of the Election Council. The results have been published by the Election Board. Recommendations shall be followed by the Election Board. In the short term, I will inform both Chambers about the proposal made by the Election Council and the VNG to carry out control counts. Those are meant to establish that the supported software has made the additions correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u135	I was a little late for quick testing. I understand that this cannot be imposed as an obligation on the members of the polling station. On the other hand, I hear the Minister say that there must be room and opportunities for those who want to be tested. Can I see that as a commitment that the VWS Minister will take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u136	My commitment is that I have started, also in the wake of our previous debate here, to look in consultation with VWS at what is desirable and what is possible for voters. It is therefore not an obligation to test, but to see if we can give voting bureau members the opportunity to undergo the test if they so wish. In principle, however, I am talking about PCR tests. In an earlier stage of the debate, I said that we do not know exactly how the rapid testing process is going to develop. At that time, I had left open the possibility that we might be working with quick tests at events or at work locations in the spring. You can see that a little less than we anticipated at the time. Again, it is on my and colleague De Jonge's agenda to see if and if so, how we can do something with tests on the way to 15, 16 and 17 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u137	Finally, Mr President. What period should I think about? When will that be known?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u138	I will inform the Chamber at two moments about the preparations for the elections. The first moment is this week. The second moment is at the end of February. It is obvious that we should then be clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u139	Just following up on that point. I hear the Minister say that she is in consultation with the Minister of the United States of America about the desirability and the possibility. Does the Minister not agree with me, and I also agree with Mrs Baay, that it is simply desirable, from her direction in relation to the elections, that this rapid test should be there? Whether it's possible, you never know at VWS, because there's always a lot of promise that doesn't come out. But it is desirable, at least according to our group. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u140	I did not think that was a very courteous comment to the officials and the US Secretary of State. If you want to take that back, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u141	Taken back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No, actually, I don't. All we and everything that the municipalities are doing now is aiming to ensure that the polling stations and all the organisation around the three days that elections can be held are organised in such a way that it is safe. That is just like with us in the Chamber and at every workplace we know today, where everything is aimed at people who complain do not go to work and go to places where other people come. That's the basis of everything. I think that's very important. Those polling stations are safe places, because there all the corona rules are 100% respected, from distance to hygiene. That's the basis for everything. We also ask people who work in other sectors not to take a test every day before going to work. That won't be necessary. This way we can organize things well with each other. Nevertheless, I can imagine that the elections are special and these are people who volunteer to come to the polling stations and to count after 9 p.m. that we will give them the opportunity to do a test if they so wish. I think that's different. I would not go so far as to think it is necessary to organise these elections safely. Based on everything there is now, I dare say it's safe. It is safe for the voters who are going to vote and it is safe for those who work in the polling station. But I understand the wish very well and I can also imagine that there are people who say: if I am given the opportunity to test in advance, then I will use it. That's the meeting I'm having with VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u143	I don't understand the Minister anymore. I hear her saying it's all decorated so it's safe. But then it would also be safe to go to people with corona symptoms, because there are splash screens and there are 1.5 meters away and so on. I don't understand that from the Minister. I still believe that people who have corona symptoms on that day should not go there, even if it is safe in the Minister's view. If that is the case, then it is obvious that you should say: it is desirable that the people sitting there, functionally, undergo a rapid test. I'm not saying "needed," I'm saying "wishful."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u144	I think Mr Nicolaï will agree with me that we expect people to stay at home with complaints. This also applies here today, not because the rules are not respected here, because I note that the rules are very well respected here. Nevertheless, we all appreciate that people who have complaints do not come to rule out any risk. Once again, I think Mrs Baay-Timmerman's suggestion to offer this to the people working at the polling stations is a suggestion to consider, if possible. But I do not think it is necessary to be able to carry out this work in this way on those days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u145	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u146	It's yes or no. But does the Minister consider it desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u147	I don't think it's necessary. I see some people think it's desirable. I have no objection to that either. By the way, I have just said that in principle I am talking about the PCR tests, not about the rapid tests, also because there is a percentage of false negative in rapid tests. Well, then you're not gonna need a test like that either. Of course, you'll have to take that into account. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u148	Thank you, Minister. Then I'll suspend for a brief moment, until 3:55 p.m. exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u149	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. Organising the celebration of democracy.. elections.. is an exalted task and a pagan chore. We are always particularly impressed that under normal circumstances things are going so well, but certainly under these circumstances. In answering the many questions, I am also struck by how many things have been thought of. Of course, there is always someone who can ask a fair question about a raffle edge. Something you're thinking, what exactly is that about? We can live with the fact that it is not all, to all points and commas, 100% round. I think a lot is well anchored. My only point today was the difference, the inequality, it's a bit of a semantic difference between those two words between the different groups that may or may not use the letter vote. I think we are very close together, but I would just like the Minister to give us an explicit commitment that we will take into account what we want and what we do not want when we enter into the discussion on letter-vote, that we will have a critical reflection on the issue of the various groups that may or may not be able to use it, as well as the question of whether or not this will affect the constitutional principles. If she wishes to make an explicit commitment to take that with her, then we are satisfied for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. He is not yet here, so I give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u152	Thank you, Mr President. If we know one thing for sure, that is that we are not sure how the Netherlands will stand on 17 March. So we have to take everything into account. In this context, I was somewhat surprised by the debate with the Minister on finance, in which she said: what is in the law, that is it. And: that's all there is to it. We get emergency legislation here every week, because something still has to be done or because something still needs to be changed to make it possible. I would also be in favour of that, which is to ensure that we arrange for elections to be held on 17 March. But the minister also said: more than what is in place, municipalities cannot handle. For example, I asked about polling streets, not test streets, where you could combine a voting street with an early voting location for people who want to vote earlier but who like to do so by car, or people who are still at some risk and prefer not to go to the polling station. That could be a combination; it doesn't have to be all side by side. Things can be combined, and I don't think we need to change the law for that. I missed an answer from the Minister to my question about people in quarantine. How are people in quarantine supposed to vote? That is why I also referred to the announced quarantine obligation, which may be required to be quarantined at the time of the elections. How are they supposed to vote? The right to vote is very important, and you cannot take that away by obliging people to quarantine. That could in itself be a means of influencing the elections, I would just like to say a few words. But we shouldn't want that. So I still have those questions. I would like to wholeheartedly endorse what Mr Dittrich said: thanks to all the volunteers. I have been a deputy for eight years in the province of South Holland, the province where we now reside, and I am concerned about cultural heritage. If volunteers stop tomorrow, the whole country will come to a standstill. We owe the volunteers a great deal of thanks, also from the SP. We talked about the letter vote. My point was, in particular, whether we should not prepare ourselves. Is it always necessary to add a small, extra group to the letter vote by means of an emergency law, which would allow this to happen? This applies to voting streets, early voting locations and municipalities that have abolished their town halls and bring passports to people's homes. Conversely, you could also say: city officials could pick up votes from people who can't get out of the house. Use everything that's possible to make sure we can do this in a safe way. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister for the commitment that the agreements in the Administrative Consultation were not a final account, but that there is still some kind of open-ended end if there is more to come or if the municipalities and the minister have settled, so that extra compensation can be made. I also assume, and I trust, that the municipalities and the minister have clearly agreed that this benefit, because it is not a target benefit, but a benefit in the Municipal Fund, is intended to be used for the elections and not for the general funds. I assume that is clear and agreed upon. Mr. Chairman. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill anyway. I think it's important that we let this go on with each other. I would like to conclude, in the direction of Mr Van der Burg, who indicated that he was already dreaming of Rutte IV and even V and VI, with a quote by Willem Elsschot: a dream that becomes reality, flows like water between fingers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u153	That deserves a little silence. Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the flexibility, too. I came in a little late. I'm still counting on a bell, but I didn't hear it. I could have figured it out myself. It's my responsibility. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. I think it was a useful debate. Many technical questions have been asked. It was a useful debate, if only because we now know that a countable grandson cannot see what Grandma has voted. I say this in the direction of Mr Van der Linden. It was useful because other insights have emerged. I had one question to ask about Mr Ganzevoort's contribution. Does this law now also apply to elections other than Lower Parliamentary elections in the event of an extension? What article is that based on exactly? Indeed, the law is simply called Lower House elections. At the introductory phrase, where the King speaks at the beginning of the law, it expressly states that it is about the Lower House elections. Where, then, does it say that it could also apply to other elections in the event of an extension? I welcome the Minister's comment on the weighting criteria she mentions: the progress of the pandemic, the municipal organisation and the effects on turnout. I welcome the commitment that regular, weekly, monitoring of people's willingness to vote. I have an additional question to ask: is this monitoring really looking at differences in the willingness to turn out by age group? This is, of course, important to see whether certain specific measures are being developed. There has also been talk of letter voices. The Minister said that the letter voting is included in the evaluation. For example, it looks at how it works in practice with unsigned voting cards. My question to the Minister with regard to letter votes is whether this evaluation also looks specifically at the 70-plussers and also at their party political direction. We can't know that in advance. I also assume that it has not played any part in the Minister's considerations, but in an evaluation you can also see whether there is indeed a party political bias to such an additional instrument to introduce letter votes. If we later have that fundamental discussion that Mr Ganzevoort was talking about, we can take that kind of information with us in the question of whether we want to vote for that letter for the entire electorate group. The Labour Party really thinks that this debate should lead to the law being introduced. So we will certainly vote in favour. We also hope that the elections will continue, provided it can, of course, be justified. I fully agree with the others who thank the volunteers who are committed to this. Thank you also to the officials who are committed to this. In any case, I will advise my group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u155	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Van der Linden, the Van Pareren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I started my contribution in the first term with countdown: another 50 days. But that actually turns out to be 48, since people already two days earlier are vulnerable if they are vulnerable, but that is not controlled going to the polling station. I had four points of interest in the first term. The first was that until 1 July the extension of that law was indeed also aimed at possible reclassification elections in November. By the way, that deadline is set in the previous law that we had, which was specifically aimed at the reclassification elections last year. So I am also curious to hear the answer to Mr Koole's question on that point. The second point concerned the balance between accessibility as a plus and voting secrecy, voting freedom and some other issues as negative points. Well, that doesn't make any sense, but the Minister recognizes that, too. My group does consider the benefit of accessibility to be greater than the disadvantages that are evident. We will therefore support this law. The third point of attention was the signature on the vote (plus) pass form. That's still a weird duck in the bite. We note that it is useful for ex post analysis, but that it does not really have any value in advance. I did have a question to check with the minister. Is it true that the fact that there is or is not a signature on those voting cards is mentioned in the minutes at the time of the census, so that those analyses are established afterwards, or that the possibilities for doing so are certain? That's important. Are local authorities being instructed on this? The final point was about fraud risks and control measures. At first I asked: can we not include this in the public campaign? The Minister points to a passive campaign via the website. Our call is: do it a little more actively. Pay attention to the risks of fraud and how it is handled. My group would nevertheless like to table a motion to identify the risks of fraud. That is because there are some new elements in relation to 2007, which the Minister referred to, when that was already investigated. For example, there are 2.4 million people who can vote by letter, where there have been much less in the past. For example, 70-plus is now new compared to what was studied at the time. And what is also important in the comparison between 2007 and 2021, the year in which we are living now: the modernisation of technology. That's a world of difference in technology. This is important in terms of risks, but also in terms of control measures that you can take to cover those risks. So there are new elements that, as far as we are concerned, are asking for a new fraud assessment to be carried out. That is why my group is tabling the next motion. The: Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[a significant proportion of voters, approximately 2.4 million, may vote by letter at the upcoming Lower House elections for the first time, because they are 70 years of age or older;]] [[voting in the voting room has significant disadvantages and introduces new risks into the electoral process;]] [[the risk analysis carried out by the 2007 Korthals Altes Advisory Commission;]] [[While the legislative proposal takes the necessary measures to combat fraud, no comprehensive external risk assessment has been carried out to identify all possible (significant) fraud risks and associated control measures;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that all (significant) risks of fraud and associated control measures should be identified in advance in order to ensure the integrity of letter votes;]] [[invites the Cabinet to have one or more specialised external parties in the cabinet investigate as soon as possible all new risks of significant fraud introduced as a result of these new letter votes and to identify and/or identify control measures taken to minimise those risks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35654-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u157	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the necessary first-term interruptions, I can be relatively short. First of all, I come to the vote on the letter. That has just been mentioned. Our group still has the necessary reservations about the system, the integrity of the system and the risks involved. We've just had a big exchange of views on that. Without prejudice to this, we still have questions about this. I am particularly sorry that the Minister indicated in the first term: we are already very far in the preparation process and it is impossible to change things now. We also have a legislative proposal before us today. If this Chamber were to reject the bill, the electoral process would also have to be adjusted. I would therefore ask the Minister to look at the options proposed to deal with the issues. This concerns better monitoring of matters at PostNL, better setting up of the issue of signatures and all other issues that make letter voting possible a weakness in the electoral process. Mr. Chairman. If this law, which will hopefully be passed today, is in place, then the publication must still take place in the Official Journal. Can the Minister indicate the deadline for its publication in the Official Journal? I also ask her to put the countersign on it as soon as possible. Furthermore, the Minister indicated that the pandemic was one of the factors behind the elections, which should definitely take place on 17 March. However, I would like to remind you of what one of the advisers on this issue, Mr Diederik Gommers, said on 11 January about the continuing elections. He said, "If there is exponential growth, you should cancel it." I would have liked the Minister's response to this statement. Are we not going to be faced with a situation where, for example, all supermarkets in the Netherlands are still open and people can go to the supermarket massively, while the polling stations must remain closed? The polling stations would then remain closed by an opinion on exponential growth, or by another arithmetic model, the question being whether it is going to come out. I note that there are often relatively few people in polling stations. In addition, this is well organised with opportunities for transit and the like. Can the Minister indicate whether such practical matters could be taken into account in the election day process, rather than the total cancellation of the elections, if that were to be the case? As far as the PVV Group is concerned, the latter really should not happen. Then I come to the recruitment of ballots and powers of attorney. I have repeatedly asked for more preventive measures. I can't stop emphasising that. It is really desirable to keep looking at that. This concerns the phenomenon of family votes and looking over the shoulder or having others fill out ballots, perhaps even by people who are not at all entitled to vote. I have indicated two points, which are quite serious. I was talking about Erdogan's long arm that might play a role in such practices. Can the Minister state what is being done to prevent such influence from abroad? There is now a real risk with the voting letters to be filled in anonymously. I also think that the position of women is an issue. In Islamic culture, in particular, it can happen that men do not allow women to fill out the ballot. Is that a factor that is taken into account in this system of extended powers of attorney and letter voting? Finally, Mr President. As far as PVV is concerned, the elections should definitely continue on 17 March. This law is a useful and necessary tool for this purpose, and that is why we will be voting in favour of this bill. Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u160	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed reply. Moreover, I have noted that a lot of what has been said orally in this debate today has actually been discussed in writing at the preliminary stage. I tried to focus on the main lines of the bill. Nevertheless, a number of things have, of course, become a little clearer compared to that preliminary stage. So thank you for that answer. It is also very clear to us, the D66 Group, that a great deal of what is regulated in this legislative proposal amounts, in particular, to the municipalities, the mayors, the voters and the volunteers. We believe that it is important to clarify quickly what we have all discussed and what is to be arranged. They are, as it were, the ones who are touching the buttons. So it is also very good that today there is clarity. I have heard many of the previous speakers say that they will vote in favour of the bill. The same applies, of course, to D66, but as far as we are concerned, we do not even need to vote. We can just take this as far as we're concerned. There is nothing left for me but to wish everyone who is involved in the operation behind the elections and, by the way, to wish us all every success. It is an important event in a democracy. I hope that the elections will not be interrupted either. That was a question I asked the Minister in the first term and I do not think I have yet received an answer: I assume that, in close consultation with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, we will have a good look to ensure that the celebration of democracy cannot be disturbed and that we can all enjoy a highlight of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, above all, for the commitment that at the end of February we, as a Chamber, will at least receive a great deal of information on whether it is safe for the elections to continue in March. In my speech, I pointed out in the first place that the French municipal elections had been investigated, which showed that mortality had increased considerably. In fact, a percentage of 21.8% was brought forward for this increase. Also for any officials I mention that this is about IZA Discussion Paper number 13335. Is the Minister prepared to see if there are any investigations concerning elections that have already taken place during the corona period? There, moreover, the corona measures were respected. Is there anything to be gained from that in relation to the danger that we run when we go to those polling stations? In this connection, I have also asked why the OMT has still not been asked for advice. I did not get a clear answer to that. I think it is very important for many here to ask the OMT for advice. On that point, I would like to table a motion. It reads as follows: The: The following motion was tabled by Mr Nicolaï and Mr Koffeman: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the OMT be asked to advise on whether the achievement of the elections in March 2021 is justified in order to prevent the further spread of COOVID-19;]] [[Calls on the Government to seek a short-term opinion from the OMT on whether the implementation of the elections in March 2021 is justified in order to prevent the further spread of COVID-19, and to ask the OMT to update the opinion on a weekly basis to the current state of play and to forward these opinions to the First Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35654-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u164	Mr. Chairman. I have paid great attention to the question of whether the principle of equality is not infringed by the provision in the law that letter votes are only open to 70-plussers. I have noticed that other Members of the House have a certain reluctance to do so. The question is whether we are not working on a law which applies a criterion which indeed violates the principle of equality. I have also noticed that others do not have the willingness to do something about it right now, but I also heard Mr Van der Burg say that if the elections are postponed, we will have a whole new situation. My group would consider it very important to look again at the possibility of opening up this letter to everyone. I have a motion on that point, and I would like to read it to you. The: The following motion was tabled by Mr Nicolaï and Mr Koffeman: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government indicated that logistics would not be possible to allow letter votes for each electorate before the elections in March 2021;]] [[Whereas there is a potential for a situation in which elections are to be postponed due to the COOVID-19 epidemic;]] [[Whereas, if there is no longer any logistical impossibility to allow letter votes for each electorate, it is desirable that the government reconsiders or introduces that possibility to protect other vulnerable persons;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether, in the event of a postponement of the elections, the law can be amended as a matter of urgency in order to open up the possibility for all parties to vote by letter only for the Parliamentary Election in 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35654-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u165	Mr President, the final point. My group is in favour of voting in writing, but it must also be able to do so safely and without the risk of fraud. I was somewhat surprised that the Minister took the view that a voting pass that was not signed could also count. The Minister has already said so, but I would like to ask again whether she can tell us from what provision of the law that that obligation in Article 11c, paragraph 3............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the first question. I would like to add a second question, out of interest. Apparently, there are people who are unable to sign, which is what we talked about. Now we've put in those letter voices, but that wasn't there before. What about when those people wanted to sign a power of attorney? That must have happened, right? And I suppose that was possible in such a situation, but also with a statement or an identity document showing that the person concerned was not able to sign it. This brings me back to the question that other Members have also asked: would it not make sense to take a closer look at it, so that we do not get into a situation where the court is about to be asked whether ballots should have been counted which should not have been counted? Mr President, that was my last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u166	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u167	One question on the first motion, on the OMT and the opinions to be given by the OMT. I do not have the motion at hand, but I think you are asking that the OMT should be informed periodically and that they should ultimately also advise whether the elections should continue or not. My question to Mr Nicolaï is: do you not think it is dangerous to make a political decision on the OMT sign? The OMT are scientists who have to look at the public health aspects from their perspective, and in the end it is up to the politicians to consider: what are we going to do with these opinions? Don't you mix it up, and don't you put the OMT in a dangerous position if you ask the OMT to? I'm asking out of interest. I'm just chewing on the proposal from you, so please have a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u168	Yeah, it's good to have that question asked again. I mean, in the end, of course, it's not the OMT that makes the decision whether or not to continue the elections. The OMT shall give an opinion on how safe it is with regard to the dissemination of COOVID-19 to allow those elections to take place. And if the scientists say that this is actually as unsafe as going to a theatre or cinema or another event, and that more unsafe situation cannot be solved in any other way, then of course that is a fact for everyone, including this Chamber, which we can take into account in relation to the question: do we agree that these elections are taking place, or are we going to insist that the elections be postponed? That's the purpose of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u169	But in the end it ends up on the plate of the OMT to give that advice, which will be very shortly before the election of 17 March. And I can imagine that the OMT thinks: we do not want that responsibility; let politics decide that. And when I look at your motion, which I now have in my hands, there is no time limit or anything like that in which you would like that advice. So let me leave it to it that I express my concern that the motion draws the OMT into a political debate that should not be drawn into. That is why I am interested in the Minister's reply to your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u170	I'd already heard the minister say she'd consult the OMT, so that's gonna happen anyway. My motion calls for this to be done in the short term. And my motion also says that we have to look at the situation every time, so we would like to have an opinion on that. And well, I do not quite understand what Mr Dittrich is actually putting forward, because the OMT has also advised on curfew and is then introduced. So: you have advice and you have those responsible. And of course, the person responsible isn't the OMT. That is the government, or in this case the parliament, because if the elections are postponed, then the Chambers will also be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u171	I was wondering whether there was a role for the security regions as well. In recent years, we have seen on a regular basis that the security regions have or have not cancelled activities at the last minute. Could such a situation not arise in the case of local elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u172	What am I supposed to say to that? I don't know. Eventually it is a weighting and that weighting comes first to the cabinet. The cabinet may or may not propose to amend the law so that the elections are postponed. We're just gonna be involved in that later. The security region is not involved at all, we are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u173	Perhaps it was also a question for the Minister to reflect on that, but I think that the security region has a role to play in each region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u174	I don't have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u175	I would just like to make it clear that there is also a small debate between Mr Nicolaï and Mr Dittrich. Mr Nicolaï agrees with me that where he asks the OMT in his motion for a resolution whether something is justified, it is not up to the OMT? I'm going to use the word "responsible" a little bit, because that's not the point. The Minister said she was going to ask the OMT what the consequences would be if the elections were to be held on 17 March. You're gonna do that well before March 8th, I got it as a date. But this is different from the way it now works with an opinion from the OMT, which is actually an administrative coordination consultation, after which the cabinet decides? It's not up to the OMT to ask if anything's justified, is it? You can only actually ask the OMT what the consequences will be if we organise those elections on 17 March. But you can't do that until March 17, because you can't yet estimate what's going on on March 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u176	I have the feeling that the opinions that are regularly sought from the OMT are not the same as Mr Janssen points out. If asked if a curfew is needed, the answer will be yes. I also understand, in the story of Mr Janssen and Mr Dittrich, that we have to distinguish very clearly where the political responsibility lies and where the expert advice lies. My motion is not designed to allow the OMT to make the choice. My motion aims to seek advice on this matter where the Minister has promised to ask the OMT. Then the weighting is up to politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u177	It is therefore a question of getting the OMT to assess the consequences of the holding of elections on 17 March. But you can't do that six weeks in advance. Then you have to start thinking in all kinds of models. That is possible, but it is the most effective way to do so in the first week of March. Then you can see what the situation is. You can then look two weeks ahead and see what the consequences are. Then it's up to politics to do with it what she wants to do with it. But that "responsible" or "needed" is not what I believe should be asked of the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u178	I agree with Mr Janssen on that last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u179	Thank you. Finally, Mr Rombouts, who is not present, has the floor. Oh, Mr Rombouts is here. I call Mr Rombouts on behalf of the CDA. He was out of my sight for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u180	Mr President, excuse me for not finding me, but my city is on fire, so I was called. Besides, it's not my city anymore, but I was called anyway. It is a wonderful phenomenon, isn't it: people who criticize proposals get answers to every question and the one who compliments a cabinet asks a question and doesn't get an answer. You learn to live with it, because this isn't the first time. In the one minute I have, I want to say the following. Most people are good. Most civil servants are good. They will also ensure that these elections are conducted carefully and transparently in all those municipalities. Volunteers are good. Volunteers are people who are willing to sit in polling stations. They're gonna do their job straight and hard working from morning until late at night. I know that from practice. But also people here in The Hague are good. Ministers have put together a package of measures here, and I have already said it in the first period that the CDA Group trusts that this is the subtle balance between what needs to be done and what can be done. I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u181	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, will you be able to respond immediately? No? Then we'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u182	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me start by quoting Mr Rombouts. He's still on the phone. I'm sure that's what he's forgiven for in these special times. He just said, "Most people are good." That's a very nice motto. It's his motto and I think it's the motto of many Dutch people. Besides, it's also a bestseller these days. I like the words. In my first term, I wrongly did not quote him. I can assure him that his words have been heard, not only here, but also in the civil servants' chamber, where a spontaneous applause seems to have burst. That does not mean anything party politics, of course, but it does say something about the value of his words, for which I would like to thank him. I'll come back to his first-term quote. He quoted Gabriel van den Brink, whom I have been following for a long time, because he always says such sensible and beautiful things. It was about giving space to people, the people who really have to do it. Those are exactly those people, the municipal officials and the volunteers who are now all reporting massively to help on 15, 16 and 17 March. I think it is very important to support these people and to speak out here. Thank you very much for that. I hope that, in my first term, I have adequately outlined how we work with the municipalities and how we support where we can and should do so, for example in their search for polling stations, in the recruitment of voters, with financial compensation and with legislation that makes it possible to organise the elections tailor-made. That way we can all say to the voters and the volunteers: come vote, it is safe and it can be done this way. We really hang out. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the comments made in the second period. First of all, Mr Ganzevort, who rightly pointed out in his first term that we are now taking special measures in special circumstances, which will allow different people to vote in different ways. A certain group, the 70-plussers, can vote in writing, which is not possible for other people. I would like to respond to his invitation to do the critical reflection that is needed. We are doing this in this way, in principle, on a one-off basis. That's what we have to assume. We have made this in a difficult balance, in which we have tried to find a balance between what is necessary, what is possible and what is explainable. I think we have found the right balance in that, but it's always part of that that you evaluate, that you're open, that you want to reflect critically on how it went and that you look at the conclusions that you'd like to draw from it if you want to draw conclusions about it for the future and for the whole electoral process. I am happy to make the commitment that Mr Ganzevoort explicitly asked for. Then I am with Mr Janssen of the SP. I think we were talking about two different things. I said that we would have asked the municipalities that they would not have been able to do so to ask them to do more than they already have to do to organise these elections properly. There is now a real end to what we are asking them to do in order to organise the elections. If there is another law on this subject with further adjustments, the municipalities will rightly say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say's say '? That's not so much about finance. We have made good agreements with the municipalities about the financing of these elections in two stages. This has led to the reimbursement of the estimates they have made for the additional costs. Of course, the conversation about that can always continue. If it turns out that they have overlooked certain expenditures, they can come back to me anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u184	Still, about the first point, about purity. What I am concerned about is that, given the history of the last few weeks, we must always take additional measures which we did not think should be taken a week ago. This could lead to a number of additional measures being taken to allow the elections to continue. That requires something extra from the municipalities. But I can very well imagine that we do not ask the municipalities to build tents themselves for a polling street. That's what the government can do. There are more examples. The police can also play a role in this. We can do that with each other. The point is that I want to take away the Minister's saying: this is it, and if anything else has to happen, then we are going to postpone the elections, because we cannot ask the municipalities to do that anymore. I do not think we can afford that flexibility in the future, given what is still to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u185	Then I understand Mr Janssen in such a way that he asks if there is any willingness to look at it if there are any additional wishes within the current legal palette of possibilities that we have created. Of course, we are already busy with the municipalities to look at voting locations. That will also be very explicit in the letter that the Chambers will receive this week. Not every church has come this far. Of course there is that willingness. By the way, I have a great deal of faith in municipalities. Mr Janssen will see that municipalities are very creative and are already thinking about so-called drive-through voting locations and such options. I think we can also leave much to the creativity of the municipalities. They know their inhabitants and their surroundings well and then do what is appropriate to that environment. Of course, I have that willingness, I say to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u186	Then I am glad that this misunderstanding has been removed and that it is not the case that, if anything else has to be done, apart from legal measures which I cannot completely rule out, we leave the municipalities to their fate, which means that they have to fail and say: we can't do it anymore. I am pleased that a solution will then be sought with the support of other governments to ensure that the elections can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u187	To make it very concrete: municipalities, for example, also need locations to vaccinate. That can compete with a location that was foreseen as a voting location. Suppose municipalities say they really have to use those locations to vaccinate, but that they can place tents as polling stations with extra money, then I fully understand that. These are logistical bottlenecks, where I am more than willing to help solve them. That is, by the way, without taking over the executive responsibility of municipalities. Of course they can't, but they wouldn't want to. Mr Janssen also asked about the situation of people in quarantine and how they should vote. For people in quarantine, there's only one way to vote, and that's with power of attorney. That's the only way, because quarantine means staying home and not being in touch with other people. So it also means you're not going to the polling room. Unless it's someone who's 70-plus, who could also vote in a letter. Then I'll be with Mr Koole. He asked, like a number of other Members, how is it possible that this law applies to all elections? In view of the title, you would think that the law is only about the Lower House elections. I'll put it very precisely. This is an amending law with a view to the Lower House Election. Hence the title. The Amending Act is incorporated into the Temporary Law Elections Covid-19. That's what we had on the reclassification election. That includes the entry into force clause and the decay clause. This is a temporary law that will apply until 1 July 2021. He may be renewed by royal decree. He may also be revoked by royal decree. In this way, we can see by election whether these temporary measures are still necessary. All articles of this temporary law are generally formulated, as in the Election Act, so that they can apply to all elections. When extending the law, you have to decide each time whether you want to maintain all those possibilities in that way. An amendment to the temporary law is also possible. Let me look at what Mr Koole asked for. When we look back at how things went, can we also look at the letter vote to see if there has been any party political bias? It seems difficult to do that in our own evaluation, but I can imagine that the National Voice Survey is trying to get that out. Then it happens on the side of science. I wanted to respond to one point by Mr Koole. I believe he suggested that we conduct or have these investigations carried out every week. That's not true. We've done an investigation now. That has been completed and I will inform the Chamber on this very shortly. We'll repeat it in February. That is the commitment I made on the letter from the end of February. So we do it periodically, but not on a weekly basis. Then I am with Mr Van der Linden. He had a question about the temporality of the law. He noted that Mr Van Hattem also did so, that he still remains with a few questions about the signature on the voting pass. I can assure him and Mr Van Hattem that we will ensure that we keep track of the number of signatures in the total of the votes that have been cast, also because of my statement that the vast majority will simply be signed, because that is the instruction and the rule. I would like to promise to keep up with that, so that you can see at the end whether your concern was correct or whether we have made the right assessment. So it is not in the minutes, but I will make sure that we have an overall picture of that. I shall now deal with Mr Van der Linden's motion, the motion with the letter H, on a fraud assessment. In my first term, I tried to outline that we actually know all the risks of letter voting, voting with powers of attorney and other forms of vote. They've been recognized a long time ago. In this context, I mentioned the analysis of the Corthals Altes Advisory Committee, which is still valuable. We also know about the Election Council, and we also know about our own approach to this balanced package of measures. It is also described in the explanatory memorandum. That is why we have opted for the separate transmission of the voting documents, for the blocking of a pass when the recipient indicates that we have not received the pass and that kind of thing. So we know the risks. We have weighed the specific risks against the importance of enabling people to vote in these special elections. That is why I advise against the motion, because I think we have actually done that part already. However, Mr Van der Linden has heard my commitment to the specific part of that signature for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u188	It was known that the Minister referred to the Corthals Altes Advisory Commission, which mapped this out in 2007. I argued in my second term that it is 2021 and that it is a new element for 70-plussers. I have also referred to its large scale. The motion is actually intended to be a kind of second opinion, giving another external look at the risks of how big they are and what might occur? In order to cover those risks, it is necessary to specify the control measures taken by the Ministry. It is said that it would also be good for the public to show very clearly: we recognise this and these are the measures we have taken. This is precisely to increase the sense of integrity in society. Isn't there a reason for reconsidering the opinion on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u189	I have just thanked Mr Van der Linden for the points he made in my first term. Those are very valid points. I also agree with him that the investigation of Korthals Altes from 2007, so very old. However, the electoral process has not actually changed to the extent that the risks and vulnerabilities highlighted at the time are unchanged. The fact that we are now making it possible to vote for a larger group means that the risk is also increasing. I recognize that. Nor have I argued that there is no risk of the letter voting. There are. But it's a trade-off. It is a balance between accepting that risk and making it possible for this group of voters to just vote. I think that the research that Mr Van der Linden is asking for will bring that back to light. Nothing's gonna change that. That investigation will indicate the risk there is. In my first term, I have already said that I consider communication to the electorate to be very important, especially to the group that is eligible for the letter vote. For them, it must be crystal clear how they should deal with the letter vote, how important it is that the letter voice is used only by themselves and that they also know exactly how to do so, so that nothing goes wrong. Again, taking the risk completely cannot be introduced at the time you introduce the letter vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u190	The Minister states that the risk is to be identified and that everything is well organized and arranged. But in this case prevention is really better than cure. We could take another look at it from outside. We have specialised firms who would like to look at it again with great love for democracy and for the country. That can happen soon. Isn't prevention better than healing and finding out afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u191	My problem is I can't stop it. There is no way to prevent a vulnerability in the letter vote, because people at home vote letter. There is no polling station that supervises. There is no voting booth where you can cast your vote on your own, undisturbed and without influence from anyone. There is no supervision of the fact that you put your own ballot in the ballot box. I can't change that; that just brings with it letter voices. That is precisely why the Election Council has rightly pointed this out. But this is the balance that we make with each other. It is therefore a political consideration, in which we accept a certain risk. On the other hand, this group, which is generically vulnerable to the COVID-19 virus, will be able to participate in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u192	That is true, but it can also be clearly stated that this is a known risk and that this is a risk that we accept. To be clear to society about this may also increase the basis for the integrity of these elections, the counting of votes. But it is precisely the elements that have not been discovered and where a second opinion may give new insights before the elections instead of after.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u193	Once again, I appreciate Mr Van der Linden's attempt. But I think, for example, the separate transmission of the vote (plus) pass and the ballot are measures that really help to overcome the vulnerability that you can overcome. But the ultimate vulnerability, namely the fact that you do not vote in the polling station in a voting booth but at home, cannot be removed, with any research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u194	Just building on this. The risks surrounding the procedure are clear to me. Korthals Altes also addressed this issue. But a letter in 2007 is something other than a letter in 2021. 2007 was the time when we all had a phone that we could call happily and with which we could receive these little unreadable messages and nothing more. In the meantime, there are a lot of techniques. I think that in the country of fraud, like Mr Van der Linden's story, there is now a great deal to be done in the meantime with all kinds of techniques, so that there can be very different risks than just the procedure we are currently mapping out. For example, I have understood Mr Van der Linden's appeal, namely to look again at whether there are vulnerabilities in a letter on that aspect as falsifications, duplicates, etc. On this point I would like to support Mr Van der Linden, not so much in terms of the procedure, because it was clear at Korthals Altes, but precisely in terms of the new techniques and the new risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u195	Of course, the world has changed since 2007. I certainly did not want to say that it was already known at that time how we would deal with each other and what technical possibilities there are. It was about what risks there are in the process and what safeguards you can build in on that side. We're introducing something new, and we've done it on purpose. We have really taken into account the Election Council's warnings. I have discussed in detail in this Chamber the safeguards that have been built in, including in the technical sense. Letter voters have a different ballot, which can be distinguished from the ordinary ballots you get when you go to the polling station, two envelopes and that sort of thing. The core of the vulnerability is that you can't check whether the voter himself put his letter voice in the envelope and sent it. The core of the vulnerability is that you cannot therefore guarantee that there has not been a certain degree of influence because it is in the home situation of the electorate. That's not about technique, but that's just about the organization of the process. If you don't want to accept that at all, you can't vote in writing. That's actually the bottomline of all this. I would, however, like to include these aspects of the signature, how the letter voting works and how you assess it. I would also like to include this in the reflection I have promised Mr Ganzevoort, because of course we must learn from it. But I think that if we make this choice and if you vote for this law, you can only accept that we cannot remove that vulnerability, with any technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u196	I have already said that we are voting in favour of the law. I also accept that vulnerability in the process, but I think it would not harm to see if there are technical risks, and then not afterwards, but in advance. In the country of fraud, there is more between heaven and earth than we can imagine. There are possibilities we haven't even heard of here, I'm guessing. It wouldn't hurt to have that looked at. We can do that soon. That can be short. If those risks aren't there, they're not there, but I'd like to know them in advance and not afterwards. I am sorry that the Minister says on that very limited aspect that it will come afterwards. I'd like to see that different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u197	I said about the motion I said. So I'm sticking to my judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u198	Following on from the two previous speakers, I would like to ask the Minister what is the disadvantage of accepting the request contained in Mr Van der Linden's motion and explained this by Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u199	Of course, we know that there are vulnerabilities in the process. Mr van der Linden and I agree on this. My point is that I do not think that an additional study on this point is going to yield anything that we can do about now. We decorated it. The pieces are printed and made. The envelopes are ready. If that decision is taken here, that process will be launched tomorrow. Nothing that would come out of a technical investigation in the next six weeks is likely to change at that time. I just want to be honest about that. That's the decision we're making today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u200	That is actually about the consequences that you might be going to link to the results of that research. If the Minister says that this will no longer be possible, then it will be a consequence that will be linked to it, but my question was: what disadvantage will it have if that investigation takes place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u201	I do not think that we should now do research which I cannot do with the results in the process. I would very much like to organise this process as well as possible. We will. We have now made every effort to get out all the vulnerabilities we can. I say to the Chamber that, looking back, we will evaluate the whole thing and recognize any risks involved. Again, I'm not saying there are no risks. On the contrary, I stress that there are, but I cannot solve it by means of technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u202	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u203	It seems as if the Minister says she is the expert and already knows it, but the question is to have experts look at it. I still do not have an answer to the question as to what disadvantage that would have. There's an advantage to it, though. If it is, which we do not hope, that these elections will be postponed, then at least we already have a research result that we can take into account when we hold those elections a few months later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u204	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u205	Then Mr Nicolaï is ahead of his questions. He has indeed made a comment about this postponement. I'll get right on that. Let me keep that until I get to his questions. I just wanted to continue with the questions asked by the PVV. I have already made a commitment to keep track of how many votes have ended up without a signature at the polling stations. If this Chamber agrees to this law today, it will be in the Official Journal before 1 February, so that it will enter on 1 February. Mr Van Hattem also asked for an explanation from Mr Gommers, member of the OMT. Anyone can, of course, give his or her opinion in public. I have no problem with that at all. I think it is good to stick to the fact that final decisions on whether or not to proceed with elections do not depend on such statements made by individual OMT members in the media, but on the fact that they are a joint consideration of us here. Mr Van Hattem also drew attention to possibilities of influence. He called it overseas. He mentioned women. They fall into the category "known possibilities of influence that we already knew by proxy." In general, it is very important that people know that when you are entitled to vote, there is only one person who determines what you vote, and that is you. We must pay great attention to this in our communication. Mr Dittrich asked about the possibility of public disorder. I understand very well, given the current situation, that he is asking that question. But, of course, it is something that the mayors in the triangle are about in all the municipalities. It's hard to respond based on what's going on right now. Let us assume that it calms down again, that the situation will simply be under control and will remain in place, and that the elections will not be disturbed by this kind of thing. But it is, of course, wise, and that applies to all the municipalities, to take that into account and to be very vigilant about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u206	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I heard her say that communication should take particular account of the undesirableness of recruitment or its criminality. However, I would like to know how the Minister is going to shape this concretely in communication. Is there a plan for that, is there an extra commitment, extra clarity about it? And if this is also explicitly taken into account, I am referring, for example, to the position of women in the image that this Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has itself produced? Because I can remember that a video was tweeted at the 100-year-old celebration, among other things by the minister, in which, among other things, there were images of a couple sitting in a voting booth together. I don't think that's the right example to set. So can we look very carefully at that, and is there an action plan or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u207	There's general communication. That is no different for these elections than for other elections: influence must never be allowed in elections. I have to assume from Mr Van Hattem that what he says apparently happened on Twitter. But you can't be in a voting booth together, unless there may be reasons why there is guidance in the voting booth. Mr Van Hattem knows that too. But we will normally bring to the attention of the people that only you will decide what you vote and that no one else can do that for you. Mr. Chairman. I'm with Mr Nicolaï. He was talking about the French municipal elections. I believe that those were the elections that were held at the very beginning of the corona pandemic, in spring 2020. I'll check that again, but I think it was. Of course, different countries have made different considerations. In France, the second round did not go through. There have been countries that have postponed it. But as you go further into this pandemic and better know how to control the virus, you can make mat rules and let elections go through. The most famous example of where the elections have just gone through in the middle of the pandemic is the United States. But I think it's relevant what he's asking: are there any investigations done abroad? I would like to request and monitor this through the European electoral network, see if we can learn from it and, of course, make sure that we keep an eye on it before our own elections. Then I'll get to his point about the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u208	The minister says she's gonna take a look at it. My question was also whether we in the Chamber would then be able to obtain the results of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u209	That depends on what's going on, because I don't know. Mr Nicolaï cited an investigation. I promise him that I will check with the European election network what is known. If there's any relevant information there, I'll be happy to send it to the Chamber. The OMT. I thought I had already answered Mr Nicolaï's question in my first term, because I also said the following. Firstly, for the purpose of drawing up that temporary legislation, which applies to the previous one and to this one, RIVM has been consulted twice. This was about the elections and what measures we should take to avoid health risks. These opinions have been incorporated into the current legislation. They see the safe vote. As far as I am concerned, the OMT could be seen if we, as a cabinet, had to consider in the extreme that the elections might not be able to continue. This is, of course, a major decision which must also be taken jointly. I can well imagine that at that time the cabinet would ask the OMT for advice, but also the Council of State and the Election Council. Someone also mentioned the security regions; it does not seem to me that we should consult them on this, but I would like to consult those other three bodies at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u210	I am pleased that the Minister has said that the OMT will at least be consulted. But I understand from her words that this will only happen if there is a doubt as to whether the elections can continue under the conditions that will then take place. Whether that doubt arises depends on the expert assessment of how dangerous it is for people to go to the polling stations. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following question. Isn't it rationally required that you get a look at that at some point? Then you can consider whether it is wise at all to allow the elections to continue. Shouldn't the government at any time seek advice from the OMT? I assume that will be at least in February, because the Chamber will be informed at the end of February. That advice is given to the government, and that is what we are getting, and then we can all consider whether it is wise for the elections to continue. It is a political balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u211	No. I think it is the government's responsibility to do everything in its power to ensure that the elections can continue and to know how to do so. Hence the question to the RIVM how we should organise elections to ensure that they are safe, and coronaproof in this corona time. That's what we did. This is also reflected in these measures. If, unexpectedly, by circumstances, we get the feeling that it is so much worse than we know it from the past period, then you can imagine that questions arise. I think we have discussed this extensively in the first period. These are questions about the possibility of organising the elections at all. This is also about the occupation of the polling stations. It would also be about the willingness of voters to vote. These are, of course, relevant considerations in such an unexpected situation. Then, as far as I'm concerned, the OMT could come into the picture, ask the OMT what the effect would be if you let the elections go through, or a question of such order. It is about something so fundamental in our democratic rule of law that it must ultimately be a consideration for all of us, for the House of Representatives, for the First Chamber and for the Cabinet. We must base this assessment on the broadest possible consideration, in which the health aspect, and therefore the OMT opinion, plays a role. As far as I am concerned, the Council of Elections and the Council of State should also advise on this, so that we can reach a balanced and sensible judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u212	Finally, Mr Nicolaï, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u213	I fully agree that all these other bodies should also advise on this. However, the RIVM opinions date back a year and a half ago. Surely it is not possible for the Minister to pretend that there is no other situation now than at that time? We hear about all kinds of variants coming in. Even a curfew has been introduced. So now we just have a different situation. In this situation, it seems to me very appropriate that somewhere in February you should ask the OMT the question of how much risk we would be in if the elections were organised in these circumstances. I would therefore like the Minister to make a commitment on this. I'm not saying we're bound by the OMT recommendation. It is logical that there should be all kinds of other advice, but the actual information must be available to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u214	Your question is clear. The Minister, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u215	If Mr Nicolaï was right about the RIVM opinion being one and a half years old, I would have some explaining to do. But of course it isn't. That RIVM advice is just from during this crisis. RIVM's advice on how to deal with the virus and the risk of infection still stands as a house. That's about: wash your hands, stay at home with complaints, keep a foot and a foot, wear a nose mask and consider each other. That's exactly how we're organizing this election right now. In other words, we organize them safely. I feel supported by a very large part of this Chamber, which also finds it incredibly important that the elections continue. So that's what it's all about. Once again, should it deteriorate very much and should we all rise to the question of whether, under these circumstances, the electorate will still be present, we still have the electorate and the municipalities can still organise it, then the OMT could also come into the picture at that time. But I have already said that to Mr Nicolaï. In that case, it would indeed be relevant to refer that question to the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u216	I think it's amazing anyway. With every measure we take, we always look at what that does for the R-value. What does this do in the package of measures? Do we have to do something plus or minus? Would we not want to know in advance what the impact will be on all the other measures at such a big event, which will bring all those voters to life in March? Do we not want to know if this means that we may have to take additional measures because of the level of contamination? It's not just that we have to do that to determine whether the elections are going to happen or not. We simply need to know this in the set of measures that we impose on other people, to see what the effects of that election will be, for example, on the R-value?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u217	This is about something else. This is very specific, on three days, and we are also giving a large group the opportunity to vote in writing. Why do we do that? To make sure that those elections are safe, to ensure spread, to ensure that there are no extra contacts between people who get too close. That's why we're organizing the election safely. This is something other than the decision whether or not the hairdressers can open. That's a measure that keeps them open from the moment they're open. No, we're organizing something extraordinary here, once every four years, in one day. This time again, because of these corona conditions, two days are added to organize the spread. So I find it a little crazy to want to pre-check such an important moment in our democracy for any effect on the R-value, which I suspect is not measurable, when we wanted to turn it around and say: what should we do? We also asked the RIVM to do it safely. That's how we organize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u218	If we can measure the effect on the R-value of a curfew, which means that we have to stay at home part of the day in the Netherlands, I find it very surprising that the Minister says that the effect of a day when we bring millions of voters to go to locations is not measurable. I cannot imagine that these elections do not affect the results of all travel movements. We're all going home tonight before 7:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u219	We hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u220	We hope so. I will therefore be brief, Mr President; I understand the hint. But we're all going home on time tonight. We've cancelled debates. And then it would lead to millions of voters...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u221	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u222	...have no effect? I can't imagine. Surely it is unthinkable that we do not know in advance what the effects are of bringing all voters on their feet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u223	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u224	... if only to be able to say afterwards what other measures we should take in order to make up for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u225	The minister and then we're gonna let the minister finish the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u226	We're gonna get the voters to vote in a safe way, at 1.5 metres, with all the precautions we're taking now in corona time and with an extra voter. They're safe elections. Let us not give the impression here that that is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u227	Mr. Koole, I've just proposed that the Minister finish the story. Then we'll see what kind of interruptions there are after that. Can you agree to that? I accept that as a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u228	There was also a motion that saw this, but in view of what I have just outlined, you will understand that I must discourage that motion. That was the motion under letter I. I should also like to make the motion for a resolution which calls for a postponement. That's the motion under letter J. The motion calls on the government to consider whether, if the elections are postponed, the law can be amended as a matter of urgency in order to open the possibility for everyone to vote by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u229	May I ask Members not to call the Chamber, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u230	I'm arguing here that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u231	One moment, Minister. Is it possible to comply with that request? Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u232	Thank you. I would like to point out that the delay is not now in sight. I did say it could be on camera. Of course, if that were to come into view, we would all hope that this would not be the time to decide when these elections would have to be held and under what circumstances. There is, of course, a very clear possibility of saying that these elections should be held as soon as possible after the present time and with the current measures. Another choice is conceivable, but at least I think it is desirable. So I would not like to anticipate now that, in the event of a delay, there should be the possibility for everyone to vote by letter anyway. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u233	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u234	I heard a phone and I already looked at Mr. Otten, but there was nothing on that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u235	Otten's calling me. That was Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u236	I say to the Minister: that is not what this motion is asking either. The motion merely asks to see if that would be possible. That is the question and I have not actually received an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u237	I said in my first term, and you also found this in the documents, why we chose to allow letter votes for 70-plussers and not for everyone. That doesn't just have to do with the situation around corona. That is the reason for the generic exception, but one reason is also that you are trying to balance the risks and the desirability of allowing as many people as possible to participate in the elections. We have found that balance, I think, by opting for 70-plus and letter votes and not for making letter votes possible for everyone, because there are also major risks associated with letter votes. We discussed this at length in the debate on the interruption. I believe that the motion anticipates a possibility which I find undesirable, namely that everyone in the Netherlands could vote in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u238	I'll let the minister finish the story, as agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u239	Mr. Chairman. Just a few more points. Mr Nicolaï wanted to know a little more precisely about the signature and the vote. He cited Article 11c a few times. Indeed, it states how to vote in a letter as a voter, what actions are needed to do so. This includes signing that voice plus pass. That's the basic rule. You're expressing that you've cast your own vote, as I said before. Then, in the first term, I argued that there are people who cannot sign. Therefore, the absence of a signature does not lead to the acceptance of a voting pass. This is evident from articles 11g and 11h, which deal with the opening of returned envelopes. The second paragraph of Article 11g states that the letter polling office checks only the authenticity of the vote plus the pass and then that the voting pass does not appear in the register of invalid voting cards. If a ballot card is real and is not included in that register, the envelope with the ballot note is placed in the ballot box. There is therefore no verification that the signature has been signed. The text of the law and the intention of the legislator are clear on that point, and so it is stated in the explanatory memorandum. That is a comprehensive answer to Mr Nicolaï's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u240	I'll let the minister finish her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u241	The last question was what about the signature at the proxy. We're gonna need a copy of the ID. That's where it says if it's someone like that. It's on the ID.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u242	Are you at the end of your term, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u243	Yes, it is, because I was the first to answer Mr Rombouts. I think I'm at the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u244	I welcome the last answer, because it shows that when it comes to a power of attorney which cannot be signed because someone cannot sign, a document showing that the person concerned is unable to sign is satisfied. A number of Members of Parliament have said that this should also apply here. My question is: if that was always the case with the power of attorney, why couldn't it be introduced here? That has been asked, but I can't really get an answer to that. The second point is that if the Minister's reasoning is correct that the provision in 11g and 11h would be decisive, then 11c, third paragraph, which states that there is an obligation to sign the vote, is actually declared a dead letter. Mr Van der Burg has already pointed this out. I don't think that makes any sense. Much more logical is it when it is said that there should be a voice (plus) pass in that envelope, in the sense of the law, and that is a signed voice (plus) pass. If that is the reasoning, and I think that this is the only legal reasoning that applies, then the Minister's story is not correct. I am very afraid that if the Minister's story is followed and it is not changed a bit, we will soon have a debate with the judge about voting rights that have not been signed, while the votes are counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u245	On that last point, I have just made a very detailed and detailed statement. On the first point, I gave a very detailed answer in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u246	Thank you. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u247	So I'm referring to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u248	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to ask the Minister about the OMT, which has just been discussed. And I am referring to those criteria that we discussed earlier in the debate: the weighting criteria. The Minister said that at least the progress of the pandemic, the health aspects, the municipal organisation and whether they can cope with it, and the effects on turnout, were taken into account. The Minister has just replied to Mr Nicolaï that she is not going to spontaneously ask the OMT for an opinion on the elections. But suppose that from the OMT or the RIVM, so from those organisations, something is spontaneously said about the effects of elections on the possible course of the pandemic; so not the possible course of the pandemic and its effect on the elections, but the other way around; so if that is introduced, and not through accidental media expressions. Today comes the news that RIVM says it is becoming less optimistic because the British variant is expanding very heavily in the Netherlands. Well, if that continues and they come within the appropriate contexts spontaneously with an opinion to the government or the minister, is the Minister prepared to consider that as a fourth plane or fourth criterion, namely the effects of an election on the possible course of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u249	Of course. Of course, I think we would like to consider that, if that is the case. But the question was: are we going to ask for that advice beforehand, and right now? Well, I've outlined that I don't intend to do that. But I take all the scientific advice, and especially those from the OMT or circles around the OMT, very seriously, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u250	So I understand from the Minister that the OMT and the RIVM can also advise this spontaneously, and that this will be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u251	Oh, yeah. And I think that will determine part of the balancing of this Chamber, the House of Representatives and the Cabinet. But I also hope that Mr Koole agrees with me that this will not be the only consideration we have to deal with each other at the time that would be discussed. But of course it is an important one, and that is why I also said that there could be unforeseen developments. It's just that it's so incredibly hard to know what's going on. Because let's be honest: we still don't know exactly what's going on with that British mutant. They spotted him before Christmas. That, of course, leads to a lot of unrest. And you cannot, I think, base the decision on elections or not, on unrest; you must have as many hard facts as possible for that. But I am always open to suggestions, scientific insights, which are relevant, even when it comes to the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u252	Mr. Koole, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u253	I welcome this answer. I understand that the weighing criteria are in any case supplemented by a possible fourth. This means that it is not one point that determines everything, but that it is viewed in conjunction with each other. And I agree with the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u254	Then Mr Koole and I are in complete agreement. And by the way, I thought this was already part of one of the three considerations I mentioned, namely: how is the pandemic developing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u255	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u256	Thank you, Mr President. It is very important what Mr Koole has just asked, and also the Minister's commitment that that fourth weighting criterion should be taken into account. But if you use that fourth weighting criterion, then it is certain that the OMT's opinion may be relevant. But if that can be relevant, I don't understand why the Minister can't promise to ask for that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u257	Because at the moment, as far as the cabinet is concerned, and we are two-weekly with Jaap van Dissel, we are very well kept up-to-date, just as the Chambers are, of course, well informed about developments. That is our position on the basis of the current state of the pandemic and the current state of the organisation, and on the basis of what we know about how people look at these elections. That is our position at the moment. There is, once again, no reason, even on the basis of the signals that come from Van Dissel or anyone else, to say something else about that now. I have been in the meeting of the ministerial committee on this matter today, and we have also discussed this. So that's our point of view and, again, based on the latest insights we've gotten from the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u258	I don't think the Minister's gonna do what you want, Mr. Nicolaï. Will you try again? No, you're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-eerstekamer-8.u259	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill shortly after a brief suspension. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes, until 5:45 p.m.
