ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on CBR. I would like to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State to this debate. Two Members have entered with speaking time, first Mr De Hoop, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Young people who pay thousands of euros to get their license. They are now left to their own devices in a sector in which driving schools hardly have to meet requirements. The combination of young people who logically want a cheap package and the lack of requirements to ensure good quality ensures a race to the bottom with low success opportunities. Young people, the CBR and driving instructors who do put quality above profit are the victims of this. It is harsh that we have known this for years and that everyone wants the sector to be reformed, but that too little has changed. That is why the Roemer report must now be brought to a speedy conclusion. Furthermore, I would like to call once again for failure tests not to be dropped, precisely because they are intended to increase the success rate among people who really need them. In April, a motion was held by the Labour Party, D66 and SP, but also by CDA and SGP. We then held that motion to give the Minister time to consult with the CBR. In the end, however, no action has yet been taken. After the committee debate, we received a letter from the Minister stating that she wanted to leave it with the CBR, and that does not go entirely along with the commitment we made in April, namely that any temporary emergency measures should be submitted to the Chamber first. Now a large part of the Chamber thinks that the failure tests should not be dropped, so I think this should be done. That is why I shall be tabling a motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u3	Very well, but you'll have to file that motion immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u4	I'm gonna do that right now, because you're absolutely right. I have 25 seconds to get my motion quickly. Excuse me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the CBR has proposed not to temporarily offer failure examinations if the booking periods for the B practical examination are too high;]] [[Whereas the failure test is necessary for some to obtain a driving licence and is intended precisely to avoid unnecessary retests;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude the removal of distress examinations as a possible temporary measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop and Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-971]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Get your license. That is something that a lot of people are nervous about, but also excited about. We have heard very often here in this Chamber that some parties think that young people no longer want a driving licence, but that is absolutely not the case. The number of people who want to get a license is higher than ever, I would say. That's still the case, because people just want to own and drive a car. That also makes sense, because that's easy for your job and gives freedom. We want that to remain affordable. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister: pay attention to the costs. The Netherlands is more expensive than the other countries in Europe. I would ask the Minister to reduce the costs for all those people who would like to get their license. The second annoyance I have is the immensely long waiting periods of up to fourteen weeks. Then it's very difficult to plan to drive off, so that's not good for the success rate. The aim is to wait seven weeks, but I still think that is far too long. Four weeks is a better standard if you should call it a waiting period, right? Let's raise the level of ambition a little bit. I have the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the waiting periods at the CBR are still far too long;]] [[Whereas a long waiting period may have negative effects on the success rate;]] [[believes that the success rate should be increased and that a shorter waiting period can contribute to this;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the standard for seven-week reservation periods to four weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-972]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u6	I give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, who will also give an appreciation of the two motions tabled. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Madlener family, also the youngest of the family, sits in the hall. I think it's their first time in this room, so we'll soon hear the assessment of how this new building of the House of Representatives is going to please us. It is good that Mr De Hoop started his speech with the question: how is it ensured that the driving school sector is properly represented? In the committee debate, I have already said that I see a lot of people involved in driving school who are very upset that their professionalism, professionalism and craftsmanship can be called into question, caused by parties who try to benefit and, for example, let those people take the exams when they know that they are not yet ready. Those people will have to pay the cost. Mr De Hoop's appeal to work with the Roemer Committee is justified. We will have another debate on road safety. I think it would be good to update it on its progress. In the past period, there has actually been a discussion with all the parties in the industry about what measures we can already implement without legislative change and whether they can be implemented. That is what I said in the committee debate. One of the measures currently being explored by the CBR, for example, is whether driving school holders who knowingly use the wrong way can be excluded. We are now going to use the CBR to see if that can be done, or if that requires legislative changes. That is going to happen, but I think it is also good to go further in a debate, including with Mr De Hoop. I know the rest of the House is calling for attention to be given to this. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 971 by Mr De Hoop. I do not fully recognise what he says in his contribution about the commitment. It is perhaps good to point out that the three temporary emergency measures have not yet been implemented, thank goodness. You will receive monthly reports from the CBR on the state of play. The measures will be implemented if the deadline exceeds 14 weeks, and fortunately it has been at 5.6 weeks for a long time now, according to the last report I received on Wednesday and have also sent directly to the Chamber. It has been promised that if that fourteen-week period would come into sight again, you can keep that monthly.We will first go back to the Chamber and then discuss with the Chamber whether or not the three measures are being implemented. There is also a sequence of which measure is the first to be used. That is the commitment made by my predecessor. I'm gonna stick to that, too. Fortunately, I have no reason to believe that the CBR should use these measures. Fortunately, I say, because I see that the examiners of the CBR and anyone who contributes to this work are working very hard. I felt sympathy for Mr De Hoop's request about the failure exams. I think it is important that these can be done. As a result of your question on this subject, I asked the CBR whether it could, because I understand the question from the Chamber, but I think it is also important, in the context of putting implementation at the centre, to ask whether this is a possibility at all. The CBR has indicated to me that this whole plan of approach has come about with its employees, its works council and the industry. The CBR attaches great importance to the fact that this remains an integral part. I understand Mr De Hoop's call for the Chamber to be informed of this in order to be able to discuss it. You have that promise. The implementation organisation that bears responsibility for this, indicates that it has thought about this with everyone and that it has talked to the employees about this. She says that we want this and cannot yet say goodbye to it; we want to be able to maintain this package in order to guarantee that we can also take examinations. I support that. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u8	Thank you. Mr De Hoop has the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u9	I have no doubt about the professionalism of the CBR and the people who work there. However, I think it is important that the Court has been given the assurance that in the event that a temporary emergency measure may be necessary, which is not yet the case, it will be submitted to the Chamber. That's why we're in charge. In April, many parties said: we do not think it is a good idea if this situation should arise, to take that measure of failure tests. Then why can't the Minister leave that judgment to the Chamber? I think this is an excellent political choice, which the Chamber can also agree with. The CBR can come up with these possibilities, but can our Chamber give an opinion on them? Then why does the Minister dissuade that motion? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u10	That's because you appointed me to govern. I have an organization that does this. The organization says: I have a job, I have a budget and I have people; I can do this for that. Every month I answer to your Chamber to give you an insight as to whether that is on schedule, yes or no. You can then call me to the Chamber to answer to me if you think this is not going well. You're looking at me like that. The organization says it has a big problem. That is also well known. We've discussed that with the Chamber several times. We'll do everything we can to recruit examiners. 100 additional examiners have been recruited, which are now in training. We make sure that we plan everything in such a way that we can also make the offer with Corona, which also plays in between, as far as possible and as soon as possible, to take the exam when they are ready. This applies to both the theory and the practical examination. The CBR indicates that we may need this measure and have thought about it; we are not putting it into practice. Should that 14-week period ever come into sight again, it is not the first measure to be implemented. The implementation organisation indicates that it wishes to keep this measure in the toolbox. If the implementation organisation indicates this, if this has been discussed with the industry, if this has been discussed with its own employees, then I will stand for it. If those 14 weeks come into sight, I'm going to discuss it with you. Then you can find all sorts of things. Then you can file motions again. But I'm standing right here in front of the CBR. I know that Mr De Hoop does the same, as he rightly says. We have talked very often in this Chamber about implementation in the centre; that we should also hear the implementation organisations when they are given orders. This is a very clear signal. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u11	It's clear what the Minister thinks. I really don't think so. First of all, I do not think that it is going to be efficient to remove these failure tests, because they work and make sure that there are higher success rates. We're just gonna file the motion and then we'll see what the Chamber thinks. In any case, I think it is a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u12	It is not the first measure, I stress. It's only when it's almost 14 weeks, and that's not the case right now. I would like to prevent you from sitting on the chair of the performance, for something that is not yet on the agenda. Next week, you'll be speaking to Chairman Bosman of the Temporary Committee of Implementing Organizations. There is a very clear report with a signal for both the Cabinet and the Chamber. I sympathise with Mr De Hoop's appeal, as I said in the debate, because I also believe that these failure tests are necessary, but if the implementation organisation indicates that this might be used as a second measure if those 14 weeks are to come into sight, then I think I should stand for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u13	To continue with Mr De Hoop's speech, it is also an ambition that you are laying down here. What do we, as a Chamber, consider to be the level of service of the CBR? Fear exams are very important to us. The Minister dissuaded the motion, but I think a lot of MPs want to raise the level of ambition. I myself have tabled a motion on a slightly higher ambition. Now that doesn't make sense, because there's corona, but there has to be that ambition. Can I translate it differently? If the Chamber does adopt this motion, does the Minister see it as an assignment to go along with the CBR to see how this ambition can be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u14	It's not ambition. This Chamber has spoken extensively with my predecessor on several occasions. The problems at the CBR are great. It's not for nothing that we get a monthly report to give an insight into the problem. That means this organization needs recovery. This means that this organisation has been given the task of achieving that recovery. We also need to give the organization the confidence it does, along with their people, along with the industry. They don't want this either. I don't know anyone at the CBR who says, "I think this is a brilliant plan." Absolutely not. They have asked: should the situation ever arise that we are going to get those 14 weeks which is not so, because in the monthly report you see that it varies between five and six weeks, then we want to have a toolbox. We've been thinking about that. We have just discussed this with the industry. There's no one at the CBR who wants this. This is not about ambitions, it is about being one of the measures if there is a need for action and action. We also agreed to return to your room. Mr De Hoop was right to say that the Chamber probably thinks so. You think so anyway, because you filed this motion. Then we'll have a conversation, too. I'd really like to make a call, because this organization is under pressure. There has been tremendously good work done by all people at the CBR. Give them a breather, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u15	I doubt, however, because I did not hear Mr De Hoop say that the CBR should not be given the opportunity to achieve this level of ambition, which is what it is for me. If the motion succeeds, the question remains what the Minister and the CBR will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u16	We'll see about that. I intend to discuss this with the implementation organisation first, because they have also been commissioned by you and me. Then Mr Madlener's plea to control the costs a little more, as he said. As a result of your question, we have looked at the situation in other countries. In Ireland, England and Germany we see similar levels when it comes to costs. In the Netherlands we work with rates. The CBR is therefore financed on the basis of the rates. If, for example, Mr Madlener says that he wants a lower rate for driving licences, then, for example, the rates for driving tests or driving licences for professional drivers will have to go up. Those are always communicating vessels. We try to make this balance every year, so that one rate does not get completely out of hand compared to the other, because you want to keep everything affordable. Of course, we will also look at your call to keep it in hand a little bit, because we do want people, from young to old, to be able to just get their license and that it stays a little affordable. And then we want to raise the quality. Well, those are the two ambitions we're working out. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 972. I'm gonna dissuade them. The argument for this is, in fact, the same as what I said earlier. The sooner the better, but it also means that the pool of examiners will have to be greatly increased. The CBR has really recruited quite a lot over the past period and fortunately also hired 100 people. They're already in training. But if we go from seven to four weeks, there's still a lot of people left, and it's just not possible to do that in the short term. The sooner, the better, we'll share it. But this isn't an executable assignment, so I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u17	Thank you to the Minister for her input. Both motions have been judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-22.u18	We're going to vote on the motions on Tuesday. I'm suspending the sitting for a moment. The next minister has already arrived. We're about to continue a two-minute debate on the media.
