ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u1	We will continue with the Secretary of State on another subject, which concerns the amendment of the oil stocks Act 2012 in connection with the implementation of an implementing directive of the European Union. Two speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber for this purpose. Mr Van Raan has the floor first on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week, in the debate on responsibility, we talked about the concept of "wide prosperity" and how we can get it right here and now without dealing with it later and elsewhere. In fact, I am very pleased with the opportunity offered by the removal of this bill to look here at the concept of 'wide prosperity', here and now, later and elsewhere and especially later. Because we are actually talking about something that we need to settle, namely to secure a supply of our energy supply if supply falls. It is a legal obligation from a directive from Europe. Of course, we recognise the importance of maintaining strategic stocks in order to maintain energy supply. There's no doubt about that. At the same time, the broad concept of prosperity, which we have agreed to take into account in our policies and plans, also calls for consideration to be given to what this strategic provision should look like later and whether we should not take this into account at this stage. Now we're still doing it with oil, but if you keep the cabinet schedule, we'll be completely sustainable by 2050. So the question is whether you should also have a strategic oil supply with an infrastructure that is completely sustainable in order to regulate energy supply. In fact, you could already look at the strategic stock and storage space. A motion has been tabled, which has received a ruling from the Chamber and has not yet been adopted, on the importance of sustainable storage. This debate is in fact perfectly in line with that. The essence of what we want to achieve with this debate is: Secretary of State, get to work on achieving sustainable storage. We have a few amendments for that which I would like to discuss with you very quickly and which have now been distributed. The law is about the implementation of a directive. So in that sense we do not want to change anything about that law, but we do want to take advantage of the possibility offered by the law to create experimental space. The storage of renewable energy is the Achilles' heel of the energy transition. Much work is being done on development, for example by TU Delft, but there are also many parties who seem to have an interest in ensuring that this role of fossil is as great as possible. One calls it the fear of the Dunkelflaute, so the light goes out because there is no sun or wind. With the first amendment, therefore, we really want more experimental space that is also long enough for serious experiments to solve renewable energy. The government is aiming at 2050 for the storage of renewable energy because we actually have to get rid of fossil, but the Party for Animals so that we can go a little faster. So that's the first amendment. For 90 days oil must now be stored and we say: use experimental space to bet on sustainable storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u3	I see Mr Bontenbal making a move. I note, however, that he did not sign up for this debate. I don't know what went wrong there, but well, I'm pretty cool. I'll take a look at the clerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u4	I didn't ask for any speaking time, but I signed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u5	If there's no objection then... we have time, so I suggest you place your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for your kindness in this matter. This bill is about petroleum products, so it's about fuels. Is your proposal about all forms of renewable energy, or is it about fuels? It seems to me that this is what it should be about. With other amendments, you are going to exclude biofuels. So you say there must be fuels, but there must be room for sustainable fuels. Then you come up with an amendment to exclude biofuels. So I do not really understand the whole set of your amendments. I would also like to ask why biofuels are suddenly no longer good. Neste in Rotterdam makes biofuels out of waste, from fish residues and all kinds of other waste streams. Then why would that suddenly be wrong? I do not really understand the whole set of your amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u7	I could now be faint and say that I have not heard a question and that I would like to explain it once if Mr Bontenbal does not understand, but that would indeed be too faint. I don't know if fish remains are a good source either. If you look at how many more fish we can catch, I don't know if that'll give enough energy for those 90 days. Let me start at the beginning. We agree that energy supply, supply and availability are crucial. That was the case in 2012, when that law was adopted to implement the directive, and it will be in 2030 and 2050. So there must be a way in which we can secure energy supply at the moment the source falls away, I say. We also know that by 2050 we will no longer burn fossil fuels; that is what we agreed. It can't be on the scale like we did. I know that there are different ideas about this, for example, that you can still do it and that you then store the CO that is released in it, but the extent to which we use petroleum products decreases, including for the strategic reserve that is needed. That means we have to have an alternative to that. We are now building a renewable energy supply. Some say it is too slow, others say it is too fast, but in any case, there will be a sustainable energy transition, towards energy sources that provide us with energy in a sustainable way. This includes making the storage component of our energy supply sustainable. That's what it starts with. That's step one. Step two is the question of which sources and storage media you use for this purpose. Are we going to raise the IJsselmeer another meter? Do we have batteries? What kind of sources are they? One of the sources we're looking at is biofuel. Of this we say: this is a ruinous road. That's what we say, in the footsteps of science, and that's what more and more people are saying with us. Some see it as transition fuel, but we don't. That is also the reason why we want to get rid of the provisions we are building not only from oil, but also from biofuels. It is therefore all the more important that we build a storage infrastructure based on sustainable generation. That is actually the order of the amendments. In addition, there is another amendment, because we are of course not from one day to the next from those oil storage tanks. For the time being that we may still need them, it turns out that there are still quite great success to be achieved, for example in isolating those things. Because that saves a lot of CO emissions. So that's a bit of a build-up. I would like to summarize it for Mr Bontenbal, President-in-Office; I hope that there will be some understanding. Experiment with other storage forms, remove biofuels and isolate those tanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u8	I'll put my question pointier. Do you think we can do without fuel? You throw electricity, gas and fuel at one pile. For example, you are now linking increasing the IJsselmeer to fuels. I'll read this bill in a minute. You always need fuels, even in the scenarios I know from IPCC and IEA. In the scenarios for the Netherlands there will always be fuels, preferably as little as possible, but do you think we can do it without fuels? If that is not the case, then there must be a sustainable alternative. What is the sustainable alternative, in your opinion, if it is not sustainable biofuels?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u9	I think you should look at it this way that we now have a fossil infrastructure, also to provide for emergencies: 90 days. We're going to a sustainable energy system. This also includes a sustainable storage way when that goes away. That is the essence of our proposals. For this we use a law change in the Stockbuilding Oil Products Act, because it allows us to work with experimental forms. What could these forms be? That could be green hydrogen, which could be energy due to height differences, which could be that you're developing geothermal energy. In short, there are all kinds of energy infrastructure that are not based on fuels, but on other things. So you also have to develop it for those emergency services. That's actually the essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u10	Good. You may continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So that was the first amendment on the experimental space. It is actually quite close to the motion to look at sustainable storage. The second amendment concerns that you should have some sort of path, an ingrowth path, for sustainable storage. That is what we would like to make dependent on the reduction in the share of fossil fuels in proportion to the increase in the share of renewable energy. So you actually have two systems. While one has to decrease, the other has to grow naturally. There is a connection between that and us. Then we have a third amendment; we have just talked about it. That is what Mr Bontenbal said: he has already asked a lot of questions that I could answer nicely. The third amendment is about the fact that it really must be renewable energy. We are now on a sort of hopeless path with biofuels and biomass. Let's not do that with that sustainable storage system. That is what we want to be vigilant about. The share of renewable energy must be genuinely renewable energy. Finally, the last amendment. If we still need those tanks, and we need them for a while, let's keep them isolated. Mr. Chairman. I've got some time left. I hope we have been able to make the following point. Yes, that provision is crucial. Yes, 90 days is a good time, a good time to ensure that we have a power generation. We must also, of course, imagine that we are moving away from fossils very quickly, and that we are actually going to be around again, and I come back to that broad concept of prosperity, which must make strategic reserves more sustainable. The best way to sustain these fossil reserves is to leave them beautifully in the ground and not to pump them up. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u12	Thank you for your input. The second and final speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Erkens. After the cathedral has been cleaned, he will speak on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has shown us that we live in uncertain times. It is not surprising that we hold stocks of different strategic products. Petroleum is one of those strategic products. We do that in a European context. This legislative amendment aims to implement a number of technical amendments and references in Dutch legislation. In fact, it brings no new burdens and no new regulatory burden. Given these changes and the fact that implementation is already significantly behind schedule, the VVD supports this proposal. Let us also be honest and face reality. We are working towards a world without oil, but we are far from there, so this remains necessary as far as we are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u14	Thank you for your concise input. I see the Secretary of State... Oh, there's been an interruption by Mr. Van Raan. Yeah, you can. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u15	I'm so glad you said it could be done, Mr. Chairman. That's a win today, isn't it? Mr Erkens concludes with: we will need oil for the time being. Maybe it is. How does Mr Erkens look at the following? In 2050 the fossil industry was phased out. That's done. What does it look like, according to Mr Erkens? Do we still need fossil energy up to the length of days to maintain that emergency supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u16	I think we still need it for a while. This amendment is not about 2050 either, so as far as I am concerned, we simply support it. We can discuss more often what it looks like in 2050. I do not have the answer to the question as to how I see it. But at that point, I'm sure we'll meet again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u17	I think that's an honest answer, and I appreciate it. I think we can all agree that we need to look towards a sustainable type of storage. I hope that Mr Erkens agrees with me and that he agrees with me that, in the way we are going to set up the energy system, oil may not fit into the infrastructure at all, because that infrastructure has completely changed. So I agree that we need to do sustainable storage. I think Mr Erkens agrees with that, given the motion he tabled at the last debate. Two is that we will eventually go to another way of sustainable storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u18	I did not necessarily hear a question, but I will answer it briefly. I think we agree that we are going to look at sustainable storage in the future. That is why I tabled the motion for a resolution during the previous debate. However, I do not think that this amendment of the law is the means of achieving that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u19	Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u20	We will continue to deal with the amendment of the Oil Stocks Act 2012 in connection with the implementation of an Implementing Directive. I call the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, the first time I have to appreciate amendments. Thank you for this opportunity, I say to Mr Van Raan. See how that goes. With the motions we are getting through a bit, we are going to see how the amendments are going. Today we are talking about the amendment of the Stockpiling Oil Products Act 2012. A small implementing law of one article, in which we are going to implement European regulation one-on-one. Simply put, it is about the obligation to maintain stocks of petroleum products as a crisis measure, but that is what Mr Van Raan said. Now the oil crisis of the 1970s seems very far away. I wasn't even born then, and I'm not that young anymore. Well, pretty young, before you say it, but not so young anymore. But also in our time, stopping the supply of oil would have huge consequences for our country. For example, large deficits would be a major threat to logistics in our country, for example. I am thinking not only of the supplies from the supermarkets, but also of the police and fire department. Oil, for example, also provides building blocks for medicines that thousands of people rely on every day, such as antibiotics, painkillers and cancer medicines. I can go on about how oil still plays a very important role in our lives today, but I think everyone here is well aware of this. Fortunately, this dependence and the risk of an oil crisis are gradually decreasing, I also say to Mr Van Raan. Of course, that also has to do with the energy transition we are in the middle of. We are going to say goodbye to fossil fuels such as oil in the coming decades, but until then we have to accept that we are not there yet and that we do have to meet our obligations. That is what we are doing with the proposal before us today. We are converting European legislation into national legislation. Mr Van Raan has tabled four amendments. The first amendment, which is in part No. 7, Mr Van Raan wants to experiment with stockpiling of renewable energy. I'm not going to recommend that amendment. Technically speaking, the bill is about oil and therefore does not allow for renewable energy. I think that was also the subject of the debate between the CDA and the Party for Animals. In this context it is not possible. And in addition, if you look at the history of the law, at why it is in place, and at how it is actually arranged, we are quite dependent on regions and countries that are unstable and where you don't have a lot of diversity to choose from. That's with the transition we're in and where we're going, with alternative sources, fortunately different. So I say to Mr Van Raan: I understand the call, but he does not fit in with the law and the question is whether it will be necessary with renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u22	Thanks for the appreciation. That is not so good with amendments, we notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u23	No? I thought it was okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u24	Yeah, okay. Apart from the result, of course. No, but my question is serious. Amendments are, of course, made in cooperation with her own department and the Legislative Office, I give to the Secretary of State. I hear her say: it can't actually be in the law, but I'd like to take that away. That is quite possible, unless I am completely wrong, but there has been real discussion about it and there has been no sign of "you can't put this in the law."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u25	Then I think we have a misunderstanding or a difference of opinion here, because there is a treaty obligation that cannot be filled out otherwise. I am not saying that an experiment on the reserve storage of renewable energy would not be possible, but that would then be on top of this law. That is another way of realizing it than to include it in the law here. Moreover, I believe that it may not be necessary to do so in substance either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u26	I fully acknowledge and respect that the Secretary of State and I do not agree that you should do such an experiment here. But I would still like an answer, perhaps in the second term. Because if it is not legal, I will simply withdraw my amendment. Then we shouldn't. If that can be sorted out for the second term, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u27	Let's agree that I'm going to look at that again from the technical point of view. Then, in the second period, I may be able to go into the content of the input a little bit longer, which is why it does not seem to me to be a sensible idea at all. So I'm afraid the "dissuade" will still stand, but I'll come back to the technique. Then I have the amendment to item No. 8, also by Mr Van Raan; all the amendments are his, of course. That's about the supply of renewable energy. Am I saying that right? Okay, let's go upstairs and let's get some oil down. That's more or less the summary, isn't it? Yes. I would like to say to Mr Van Raan that the stock is falling with consumption. At a time when we are using less and less oil, we also need to keep it less and less in stock. Maybe we won't use it anymore at some point and then we won't need it anymore. That movement is already in the law in that sense, and also how we set it up and how we do it in our country. That is why I would also advise against this amendment. But it seems like a very positive "dissuade," because that's how it's actually happening. It's getting better, isn't it? Yes. Then we have the amendment to item No. 9. Mr Van Raan said that biofuels should not be included in the oil supply. I would like to say that biofuels are not being stored at the moment. So that is not the actual situation either. COVA is the designated body to do so. That's where the expertise is. My advice to the Chamber and also to Mr Van Raan would be: let us not fill out from here exactly how they should store those stocks. Fossil diesel and petrol have a shelf life of at least eight years. When biofuel is mixed together, the shelf life becomes much shorter. That is not desirable. It's not happening right now. The question is whether it would be desirable, but let us not fill it out here. That would be my advice, and that is why the amendment has been discouraged. Then I've got the last one here. That is the amendment to item No. 10, if I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u28	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u29	That's about isolated storage tanks. If I understand Mr Van Raan's commitment, it is actually something on top of the rules and legislation we already have. So it would be an addition. This law regulates only the oil crisis stock, as follows from European and international obligations. It meets the standards we have for every storage tank. That is already quite extensive, I can say. I looked into it, thanks to Mr Van Raan, because he wanted to discuss it. I'd say this is really an extra addition. Let's not do that in this law anyway, but I don't think it's necessary either. This amendment has therefore also been discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u30	Mr Van Raan has another question about this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u31	Thanks for the appreciation. Yes, it comes on top of it, but also for this you can agree or disagree that it is possible. We can arrange that. If you look at how much effort we are making, let me take a look at Mr. Kops and how difficult it is to remove houses from the gas, and how big the amount of CO emissions we're saving by effectively isolating those storage tanks... I think we're taking the equivalent of entire residential areas off the gas at once. So it's really worth looking at. And why wouldn't we? As the Secretary of State knows, there is also an obligation to make that investment when you invest and you can make a sustainable investment that earns itself back. Those are actually two flies that you let go at once, because you shouldn't beat flying to death, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u32	Yeah, I figured the saying's a little different, but okay. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u33	No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u34	I'll just talk through it before you say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u35	No, no. You're an ad rem and you can do that. You may give your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u36	Thank you. The crisis stock already complies with the same standards as the regulated storage tanks. In my words, it would be a little crazy to start making different demands on the crisis stock. That is why I say from the point of view of substance that it does not seem appropriate to me. If Mr Van Raan says 'yes, I will, but I want to talk about extra insulation and I do have some ideas', I would say: the legal standards for storage tanks must be adapted. This is also the case with another executive, with another ministry, namely IenW. It's possible, but it doesn't fit into this law. It could be somewhere else. That would be my idea right now. That is why the amendment has been discouraged. I don't think you should set different standards for crisis storage. If that's what you want, you have to change the law in another place. That is not in this law and in that case it is not in this govern ment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u37	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The question is whether there is a need for a second term. There is. Then I give Mr Van Raan the opportunity to do so. He also has a motion, look. I call Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u38	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the answers and yet the exchange of ideas on how to see such a strategic stock. What I'm feeling is that the acceleration we need to use to become sustainable doesn't really seem to apply to the strategic facilities we need when we're in a sustainable era. We've also had a lot of discussions about Bonaire. That also stands for the choice: are we going to make a fossil future or are we going to make a sustainable future? If it had been up to the Party for Animals and also to D66, it would have become sustainable. That seems to be fossil again. So I guess we're missing a chance here. The Secretary of State is, of course, right when she says that oil still plays an extremely important role, but I also hear her say that we should say goodbye to it in the coming decades and therefore to its storage. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion to encourage. I'll read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that strategic oil stocks for energy transition crisis situations are becoming less and less effective because the world is less and less well equipped to distribute and burn fossil fuels and is increasingly focused on renewable energy;]] [[noting that opportunities for storing renewable energy can contribute to a strategic reserve that maintains its effectiveness in future crises;]] [[noting that stimulating the development and realisation of storage technology and capacity can also have a daily impact by contributing to the stabilisation of a renewable energy system in which solar and wind are not always present;]] [[calls on the Government to subsidise the development of storage technology for the storage of energy where gross CO is not released and to ensure that the storage of renewable energy becomes more profitable and cheaper than the storage of fossil fuels, and to inform the Court of Justice of this within a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35693-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u39	So basically, it's a huge stimulus motion. It is good for employment, good for technology and good for innovation. We just have a chance here, and I'd like to offer it to the Secretary of State to give a positive opinion on this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u40	Thank you. I would just like to look at Mr Erkens, to see if he needs a second term. That is not the case. Then we will be on the side of the Chamber at the end of the second term. The Secretary of State can answer directly. I shall give her the floor immediately to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the difference of opinion with regard to the first amendment, which is No. 7. I said that doesn't fit this law. Maybe we have a disagreement or a difference of opinion. Technically, you can, of course, submit any amendment to any law. It could be. So if Mr Van Raan says "I'm doing this" then that's possible. But it's a new subject to the article of law that doesn't fit, that experiment for renewable energy. I therefore insist that it does not fit in with this law and that it is not appropriate in substance either. So, technically as well as in terms of content, I advise against it. I haven't gotten the motion yet, but it was about extra financial stimulation of storage if I've heard it right. I didn't hear the cover. The system that we naturally have in our SDE is that you weigh it well and that you look at which energy source and which measure is most cost efficient and which achieves the most CO reduction. The motion is already coming, but I can see from Mr Van Raan that I did not understand her very wrong, that he hears that I am betraying her and that he may not entirely agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u42	The argument is that there is no cover in the motion. During the time that I am here now, which has been for more than four years, this has proved to be a totally unpredictable instrument using box K. Sometimes a motion is taken over completely while there is no cover. Sometimes it is taken over while there is cover, it is discouraged while there is cover or it is dissuaded because there is no cover. I think the Secretary of State also understands that this is not a very good argument, but that is why, perhaps precisely for that reason, we have also said that it is in it, but the Secretary of State has not yet been able to do so 'to stimulate or to do so'. The way in which this has not been said at all. Other measures may also be possible. But the fact that there is no cover is not a good argument. The motion provides enough resources for the Secretary of State to stimulate innovation, which we were just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u43	Mr Van Raan points out possible inconsistencies of my colleagues or predecessors. I would like to ask him: grant me the creation of my own inconsistencies. I thought this was my first motion. I've got it in front of me. He's asking for a grant. I can say a few things about that. We'll have budgetary treatment in a few months. Either there's a new cabinet and there's someone else standing here or I'm standing here, but we can talk about it anyway. There is really no extra budget for subsidy at the moment. All the subsidies that we have in this context are, of course, well-involved by the Court of Auditors, which are really focused on CO reduction and cost efficiency, so that we can get the maximum out of it and handle taxpayers' money as carefully as possible. Of course, we do have a subsidy for storage through energy innovation. So it's not like we're not doing anything with it. If Mr Van Raan says he would like to do something more with that, then we will see each other in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u44	Finalizing, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u45	In conclusion, I taste between the lines by an advice to hold. I think I can honor that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u46	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u47	But I'd like to make sure that's true, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause maybe the Secretary of State means something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u48	If you have heard it, then so be it! But I'll leave it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u49	Look, my personal advice would be "repeal," but I can live with it. Then we'll just talk about it in three months. I was also reminded for a moment that on 9 February I had not been in this position at that time also a letter specifically on this subject. So let's get them both again. Then we'll meet at the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u51	This brings us to the end of this legal process. Thanks to the Secretary of State. Thank you to the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-tweedekamer-25.u52	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the four amendments tabled and on the legislative proposal. We're gonna suspend until 7:15 for dinner break.
