ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	We continue to implement the EU Renewable Energy Directive on Guarantees of Origin (35814).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Raan of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Guarantees of origin are becoming increasingly important. The share of renewable energy needs to go up and the share of fossil energy needs to go down. We agree on that, but the Netherlands is still closing the gates for renewable energy. Especially now, this means that we have to import a lot of renewable energy. It is likely that we will always have to import part of our renewable energy. That is why we need to know for sure what the origin of this energy is, whether it is actually sustainable and whether double counting is excluded. In the meantime, several systems have been rigged for these guarantees of origin. We've got COOs for electricity, green gas and heat. Today we are talking about implementing rules on GMOs for other gases of renewable origin. In the energy transition, handsome cups are developed which are needed to call all kinds of other gases that may be renewable, with the emphasis on "possible." As far as I know, most of this group of renewable gases is still under development. How is the Secretary of State going to prevent all kinds of gases from being eligible for POs that are actually not renewable at all? The Renewable Energy Directive now contains things that do not really fit into the context of'renewable', as we know. Biomass is, of course, the well-known example of an energy source that is not sustainable, even if you have purchased GvO's that have been taken care of up to the point. Mr. Chairman. So the complexity surrounding these new, other gases is increasing. The electricity network and the gas network are also connected once again. So we will have a wide range of variants where the different energy systems are increasingly interlocking and where the degree of renewables and CO reduction can vary greatly from one variant to another. Let me give you an example. Suppose the technique of Direct Air Capture, DAC, is to be applied more widely. Let's say that using this technique you're going to make gases out of CO based on renewable electricity. Suppose you stand at the plastic factory to use renewable electricity to capture the CO released from the production of plastic. Can a COO be provided for this? The point is that in this type of technique the CO is only kept in the chain a little longer, to go into the air at a later moment. Knowing that at present cumulative CO emissions are only increasing, the pumping of COgene is a long-term solution. Actually, it's not even a short-term solution anymore. At the moment, the CO density is 415 particles per million CO. That's 2.5 more than last year. We're gonna have to take it away. That is the solution to the climate crisis. The solution is not to keep pumping a constant number of CO particles. We therefore believe that it is not wise to implement systems of guarantees of origin if we do not have the guarantee that they will only be provided for renewable energy and that they will reduce CO. Because what other purpose would it serve? Does the Secretary of State agree? Mr. Chairman. I understand that the Secretary of State feels compelled by the EU to implement such rules, to transpose the directive into law. That's exactly what we're critical of. I mean that the EU imposes unsustainable rules on Member States which are then translated into unsustainable legislation once again. This is also why it is so important that the Netherlands itself provides the right national laws and regulations. Has the Minister, or the Secretary of State, examined the possibilities of making exceptions for POs for sources and carriers that we do not consider sustainable in the Netherlands? For example, the directive allows us to accept COAs for biomass. Is the Minister, or is the Secretary of State, prepared to exclude biomass from POs? Since variants of renewable energy are being developed, you want to have simple and clear decision-making rules to determine whether GMs can be provided. As far as we are concerned, the increase in renewable electricity and CO are a prerequisite for independence. We want more sustainable electricity production in the Netherlands. We don't want to depend on CO. I'd like a reaction. Mr President, I come to a conclusion, but I do need a little more time than the time I have here on my clock. In what way are GM systems susceptible to fraud? Is there a visual on that? These systems must be watertight. Is the implementation also looking at blockchain technology? What's the status of that? Waterproof COO systems are necessary, but not sufficient. The share of renewable energy is expected to increase and the share of fossil energy will decrease. So you want GvO-system to lead to more production of green energy and to less production of fossil energy. Mr. Chairman. Those GM systems do not contribute by themselves to the energy transition. It's possible they're an obstacle. In the electricity sector we can now see that renewable energy SAs can be bought cheaply from abroad, for example from countries where there is supposedly a surplus, a surplus, which means that there is no increase in sustainable electricity production and even no incentive to start producing in the Netherlands. That is exactly what the cabinet has done in recent years. It was hard to believe that the Netherlands would not meet its renewable energy targets, so in 2020 it bought a flexible amount of renewable energy from Denmark. The statistical transfer on paper finally took place in 2021 for the most part and the largest possible amount. But in the Netherlands this means that no longer renewable energy has been generated. Does the government have an adequate view of the risks to these POs if we do not ensure that additional production of renewable energy takes place? What's the risk of shuffle gas? How do these implementing rules increase the share of renewable energy produced from wind and sun? Mr. Chairman. In our view, it is time to upgrade the COO system from a potentially accounting trickbox to an essential energy transition tool. Apart from this implementation law, I haven't seen any laws and regulations to promote that. Can that be true, and what's gonna happen? The paper reality is not the reality in which the climate crisis will take place and is already taking place. So if nothing happens to this, then that is a dangerous choice. Thank you, Mr President. I apologize for the confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	Yeah, very confusing. But we'll get through that. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Boucke of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the implementation of a European Renewable Energy Directive. Before I go into this particular law, I would like to say that I think it is very important that we also speak in this House about the transposition of European laws into Dutch law. Climate policy is a major European issue. We arrange a lot in Brussels. In doing so, we are also exploiting the strength of Europe. I said earlier that I think Europe is an economic giant too often acting like a dwarf, but I am glad to see that Europe is becoming more and more like that giant it really is, with an ambitious climate goal and a set of actions to achieve that goal, such as a stronger emissions trading system, a European border tax, the so-called CBAM, and a trite of other ambitious targets in the field of renewable energy, green hydrogen and energy saving. I cannot wait to discuss all these proposals here in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the law ahead of you. Meanwhile, more and more Dutch compare the different energy suppliers at the end of the year. The question is whether money can be saved, but also whether it can be greener. In recent years, the rankings of environmental organisations have shown that there are large differences between the renewable electricity that energy suppliers supply to customers and the electricity they buy. This is due to the current system of guarantees of origin. I would just like to illustrate that by way of an example. A power supplier has concluded an agreement with a renewable energy producer in the Netherlands for a large number of years. For example, the producer knows that there is a continuous decline in the green electricity generated. That improves the business case. That is what the energy supplier is paying for. At the same time, the supplier knows where the green electricity comes from. He can therefore also communicate openly with the consumer. Another energy supplier also offers its consumers green electricity, but based on 100% foreign guarantees of origin. At the time of delivery, the flow through the guarantees of origin is green. However, purchasing is a mix, a trade mix of electricity, which can be generated with coal and gas, and which is described by those affordable guarantees of origin from, for example, wind projects. Both energy suppliers therefore supply green electricity to consumers, but there is a big difference in purchasing. My point concerns transparency for consumers. Of course, the energy market is an international issue. At the same time, my party D66 also considers it important that we support clean electricity production in our own country as much as possible. I therefore believe that consumers have a right to transparency about where their electricity comes from, whether it is grey or green. There is a way to strengthen that transparency. Energy suppliers can use so-called power purchase agreements to link an agreement between the energy supplier and the energy producer to the guarantees of origin. For example, the energy supplier directly shows where and how the energy was generated. This offers the customer much more transparency, especially the customers who really want to know where the power comes from they get from their sockets. A few questions to the Secretary of State. Does she agree with D66 that consumers are entitled to greater transparency? Is it therefore prepared to extend the scheme of guarantees of origin to a power purchase agreement requirement or something like that? Does the Secretary of State also wish to make use of the possibilities outside this GVO system to ensure that procurement and supply by the energy suppliers are better coordinated? The treatment does not yet transpose the whole of European law into Dutch law. A number of parts are still missing and still need to be incorporated into the new Energy Act and the Heat Act, but I thought it was important to put this aspect on the table. These laws are the foundation of our future energy supply system, but they are also important laws that directly affect households. For example, the link between gas and heat prices in the heat grid. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the state of play regarding these laws. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna close up with what I started. Today we are discussing the transposition of a European directive into Dutch law. I think this treatment really belongs in this Chamber. We will talk a great deal about the implementation of European legislation in the coming years, and that belongs here in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u6	A question from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u7	My question to Mr Boucke is as follows. There is a motion from among others your party about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u8	Among other things, Mr Boucke's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u9	...how we can make sure that SACs also provide additional green power. The Secretary of State replied and said: if I make it clear which country these GPOs come from, then I will give effect to that motion. Is Mr Boucke satisfied with the explanation given by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u10	What I would like is for the consumer to know what he gets out of the socket. [[Sentence could not be parsed: In aanvulling op de huidige GvO-systematiek zou ik ...]] Those may be power purchase agreements, but I'm actually gonna leave it to the Cabinet. What I would like is for the consumer to know better what comes out of the outlet, because that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u11	Yes, I think it is also very interesting that you not only see a GvO, but that you also see a power purchase agreement and that it should also be green before you can sell it as green. I will come back to that in a moment. That concludes that, as the motion has now been explained and implemented, this is not enough for Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u12	I would like to answer your question, but I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State how she responds to my questions. I think I'm looking for the same thing, but it's a quick search. I just want more clarity for the consumer. I'm also searching myself: how can we do that? If that's your way, I'll back you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u13	Then you support Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u14	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Then I support Mr Thijssen. But that's a little more searching for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u15	Very well, you're going to look for it. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u16	I will try not to address Mr Boucke as Minister or Secretary of State. I have a question for Mr Boucke. He knows, of course, that when legitimate green energy, renewable energy, is used to produce a gas that, for example, has been captured from the plastic industry, that gas cannot be certified as green. 'Cause you're only allowed to drop off a GPS once. Does Mr Boucke agree with the Animal Party that these certificates, those COOs, should contribute to the reduction of CO and not to the recycling and longer keeping of CO in the chain, so that it cannot be used as a means of preventing the reduction of CO content? If he agrees with that principle, I wonder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u17	What the CoPs are meant for, I think, is very important: green in its entirety, so taken over the whole chain, is also green. That a consumer knows: I want green electricity and somewhere in Europe it is also produced green. Within the current system you still don't know exactly what comes out of the socket, whether it is actually green or whether your supplier has purchased a certificate. That's the basis of the COO system. I suggest that we clarify that further. In addition, there must be other instruments to ensure that we produce more green electricity. Every day we work very hard on that in this Chamber, but also in the Cabinet. But can that all be done with SAOs? I don't think so. I think you do that in other ways. I have just tabled a motion for a resolution to the previous debate on more wind at sea and the linking of electrification of industry. I think that such instruments should above all ensure that we produce more green electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u18	I agree with the first part of the answer. Indeed, the consumer must know what is and is not green, but for that second part we must be extremely careful: if more green electricity is generated, for which Mr Boucke has tabled a motion, then it should not be used to green gases or residual products from the industry that does maintain CO concentration. I would like to have a clear answer to that, because they are becoming more and more entangled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u19	Yes. We have to make sure that green is also green, that it is well arranged as a consumer if you want to buy green, and that you can count on it to be green, in any mix. I also think it needs to be expanded. The problem mentioned by Mr Van Raan, that particular production process, needs to be agreed at a good time. I don't know if you have to deal with the guarantees of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u20	Clear. We're going to the next speaker. You were done with your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u21	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u22	We are going to listen to Mr Bontenbal from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. Within 15 minutes walking distance of this plenary room on Lange Voorhout, the Escher Museum is located. If you look at Escher's prints, it makes you a little dizzy. His works often depict impossible constructions, forms that change and merge, movements that disappear into infinity. In thinking through the bill we're discussing, I had to think about Escher. I'll explain why. Guarantees of origin shall be issued in the production of renewable electricity. This has been happening for years within Europe. This is also the case with the production of green gas. It seems very reasonable to also rely on hydrogen guarantees of origin. Consumers will then be able to demonstrate that they are using green hydrogen. But what complex discussions can this lead to? I'm afraid we haven't given that much thought. Let's start simple. A company builds a wind farm at sea and converts the green electricity directly into hydrogen. Through a gas pipe, the green hydrogen comes ashore. This situation is pretty clear. The production of electricity from wind at sea hangs GvO's. If these are converted to hydrogen on site, then the wind current GvO's are surrendered and hanged to the hydrogen GvO's that show that it is green hydrogen. Now let's make the situation a little more complex. What if there's just a big electrolyte of 1 gigawatt somewhere in the power grid? Physically, this electrolyser uses the electricity mix that is currently available on the electricity grid. Through the trade in GMOs you can green this electricity mix. The operator of the electrolyser therefore buys GvO's from Dutch soil from renewable electricity sources, for example from a wind farm at sea or a sunbathing area on land. These SACs can be surrendered so that the operator can demonstrate that it produces green hydrogen. In this case we already see that the direct link between green electricity production and green hydrogen production becomes more indirect, and the question is where this leads. I'm gonna make the situation a little more complicated. Because as an operator of the electrolyte, you can also buy GvO's from other Member States, for example from hydropower from Norway. Those POs only cost €0.07 per megawatt hour. Wind farms from Germany cost €0.09 per megawatt hour and solar power from Spain €0.10 per megawatt hour. The cost of renewable energy from wooded biomass from the Baltic States is even lower. An operator can therefore buy a whole basket of green electricity GSOs on the European GRP market. Let's say a third hydropower from Norway, a third solar power from Spain and a third wind power from Germany. The physical relationship with electricity production is almost completely gone, but on the basis of the legislative proposal, the operator may call this hydrogen green hydrogen. In addition, in Norway they don't care so much about the GVOs. They have hydropower and therefore also make hydrogen. That's their green hydrogen: green hydrogen from Norway from hydropower. The fact that there's something going on with these G.O.D.s, they're gonna forget about it soon. This means that several parties count themselves richly with green hydrogen. Mr. Chairman. I can make it even more complex. Now it becomes really escherian: with green hydrogen you can also make electricity again. That too is conversion. Are we going to hang GvO's on green electricity that is made from green hydrogen, which is made from green electricity again? So how do we deal with all the sources from which the original renewable energy came? Because there is a good chance that several electrolysers will be placed in the Netherlands, all of which are going to buy GvO's in a different way. But those volumes of hydrogen may come back together physically and are then used in a mixture to produce electricity from again. I did my best, Mr. Chairman. And then all we've talked about is green hydrogen. We'll also need blue hydrogen. And how about purple hydrogen? My expectation is that hydrogen from nuclear energy will also play an important role in the future. And how do we deal with that? When I think about it for a long time, it makes me dizzy. Have we thought this through? I also know that there is no link between the renewable energy objectives, the national accounts and this COO trade. Only if there is a statistical transfer can renewable energy from another Member State count here in the Netherlands. So far, so good. But parties that are going to use hydrogen in the Netherlands want knowledge of the origin of that hydrogen. There may also be agreements in some subsidy schemes on the origin of hydrogen. Some municipalities may write down heat in their transition vision that they want to switch neighbourhoods to hydrogen heating. Mr. Chairman. I think we need to think this issue through much better. Let me sum up my speech with the following questions. One. If we are going to hang a GvO on green hydrogen, will the label include which GvO's have been used in terms of green electricity? If not, isn't it going to be a totally opaque game with GMOs? Two. Is it true that hydrogen will soon be called green hydrogen in the Netherlands if it is purchased from renewable electricity sources from European Member States? Three. Is there going to be some kind of electricity label on the GvO for hydrogen that shows where the GvO's that served as input come from? If so, will it not become extremely complex? Four. Is the conversion of hydrogen to electricity included? Five. When are there going to be GMOs for blue hydrogen and purple hydrogen? Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'm ready for the Christmas tree, I see too many bears on the road and I'm having too much trouble with it, but I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u24	You're really the only one who needs Christmas. We would prefer to go on for a few weeks, but the reality is different. We are going to listen to Mr Kops of the Party for Freedom Group. The floor is up to him. You can stand still for 15 minutes, but there will be no interruptions, Mr. Bontenball. Life is hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is not about the towering energy bill, to mention something important. No, today we are talking about an EU directive on so-called guarantees of origin. Those are some kind of green energy certificates. It is certificates that must guarantee that green energy is really green. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore a question of rules from Brussels. The combination of Brussels and green energy immediately sets off all alarm bells. That can't be good, of course. And it is not, because these green certificates are in practice one big wash nose. Of course, the key question is: how does the Secretary of State ensure that these green certificates are actually used only for good energy? That makes perfect sense. In other words, how does the Secretary of State prevent non-green energy from being turned green by simply putting the label "green" on it? Mr. Chairman. To answer immediately: the Secretary of State cannot prevent that at all. In fact, the opposite is happening. In fact, these green certificates are being traded lucratively. For example, Dutch suppliers who lack green energy can buy green certificates in another country, where there is a surplus of green energy. Those Dutch suppliers then sell energy that is not green at all, but green at all. On what scale is this actually happening in the Netherlands? How much fake green energy, because that's what it is, are we actually talking about? The Secretary of State writes the following in the explanatory memorandum. I quote: 'And yet these green certificates do ensure transparency in the sense that green electricity has been fed elsewhere on the same electricity grid for the electricity used by the consumer'. Mr. Chairman. That sounds really easy. The purpose of these certificates is that consumers know where their electricity is coming from and do they know that this electricity is actually green? In reality, therefore, those consumers pay for electricity, which, logically speaking, is not at all able to tell where it comes from and whether it is green, but which may be called green because somewhere in the world some producer has fed green electricity on the grid. So, as a consumer, you have to assume that all that is true, because you can't control it at all. We are talking about energy which, to use the words of the Secretary of State, is administratively referred to as green energy. Look at this: "Administratively designated." So it's a paper reality. In fact, the Secretary of State himself recognizes that. We see this paper reality more often in the whole climate policy. Mr. Chairman. We see this, for example, in biomass, the greatest global scam ever. You know, that's the subsidised tree burning. More than half of the so-called renewable energy in the Netherlands comes from biomass. And although the whole aim of climate policy is to reduce CO emissions and to shut down coal power stations and to remove everyone from gas, biomass is actually not less, but more CO-free than coal and gas. But, Mr President, we do not count the CO emissions from biomass administratively. So the emissions, which are higher, are there, but we leave them out of the picture. Just a few weeks ago, the CBS reported that it was biomass that increased CO emissions by 2020, but again: we do not include these emissions in the climate figures. All this has very little to do with climate, as long as it looks nice on paper and in statistics. And, admittedly, we don't need this whole CO-obsession, this CO-reduction, but this is nothing but a scam. Biomass is therefore not green at all, sustainable or whatever you want to call it, but we pretend. In order to demonstrate how reliable the green certificates are not in practice: even for biomass energy, these certificates are simply provided. Mr. Chairman. Okay, here's the thing. The Netherlands did not achieve the EU target of 14% green energy by 2020, despite all the billions wasted on it and despite the fact that biomass emissions are not included. Now what? What is the Secretary of State doing about this? We don't have to, but what does she do about this? Well, she buys hundreds of millions of euros of green energy certificates abroad. And what do we get back for that money? Actually, nothing. Nothing at all, because we can't get that energy we bought physically. No, the energy purchased can then include the Secretary of State in her own climate accounting. And, hoppa, it looks like we've achieved that goal after all. On paper, at least. The Secretary of State calls this a "statistical transfer of renewable energy" in response to previous parliamentary questions. The PVV just calls it priceless bullshit. If you let all that get through to you like that, it says enough. The PVV draws only one conclusion: get rid of that climate policy, get rid of those EU climate targets and therefore get rid of that terrible EU directive on guarantees of origin. It's one big wash nose. We need to get rid of it as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you. Then there is Mr Thijssen from the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is indeed escherian; unfortunately Mr Bontenbal has gone, but it is indeed escherian. I thought he had a beautiful metaphor and that you will not see the forest through the trees if you are not careful. What is the purpose of this law? I believe that the aim of this law is to increase the share of renewable energy in the Netherlands or in Europe. That is what I like about the motion adopted by D66 and the Christian Union. But is that what happens to these SACs? That's not gonna happen. Firstly, we know that we have not achieved the European renewable energy target in the Netherlands in recent years. There has indeed been a statistical transfer. The Labour Party has not been happy with this either, because this simply means that we have not pursued enough policies in the Netherlands to generate more renewable energy in the Netherlands. It is a shame that that money had to go abroad instead of generating more renewable energy in the Netherlands. However, I note that the system of guarantees of origin, which has been in existence for 20 years, has apparently not worked enough to ensure that there is sufficient renewable energy in the Netherlands. So the system doesn't work for that. The second is that the Secretary of State does say: it will at least help to increase renewable energy abroad; that is good, because that is European and let us build renewable energy where it is most cost-effective. I also have to say that this is not the case. Mr Bontenbal mentioned the figures, but the price now being paid for a guarantee of origin is about half a percent of the cost price. This is not an incentive for producers to produce more renewable energy anywhere in Europe or in the Netherlands. So there too you can see that this system is not working. "Well, then it doesn't work; then we only have a system that doesn't work, but doesn't benefit, then it doesn't harm." I disagree. This system is damaging. 78% of Dutch people buy green electricity and think they contribute to generating more renewable energy in the Netherlands or, if they do not, elsewhere in Europe. But that's not the case. There are therefore energy companies that buy CO-intensive electricity as cheap as possible on the spot market, then buy very cheap guarantees of origin somewhere in Europe and thus their stream of greenwashing that is it really... and sell it to the consumer. In my group's view, that is really undesirable. So the question is, how can we fix this? How can we implement this motion of D66 and the Christian Union, which says: let's shape COOs in such a way that it leads to more renewable energy in Europe? If we can fix that, the Labour Party can also support this bill and we will indeed add something to the energy transition we want. But that doesn't work at the moment because of the price of GvO's, because GvO's are cheap, like I said. They cost half a percent or something like that of what is actually the cost of a kilowatt hour. So that's not how it's gonna help. The answer by the Secretary of State contains a whole story on how the European Commission might look at the possibility of producing green hydrogen by means of a delegated act, with green electricity in the vicinity. I'm not sure how that works. I don't think it's here yet. Moreover, that does not help against the greenwash that is happening at the moment, where people buy green electricity but actually buy very dirty electricity with a GvO. In addition to Mr Bontenbal's questions, which I believe are the right questions, which we really need to talk about in this debate, my question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether we can amend European law or its implementation in the Netherlands. And can we not say: if you want to use a guarantee of origin to show that electricity is green, should there be a power purchase agreement, a PPA, that shows that the flow is indeed green? As far as I'm concerned, this raising takes place preferably in the Netherlands, because then we will make sure that we meet the goals in the Netherlands. Anyway, we're in Europe. It can therefore also be a PPA elsewhere in Europe. So that is my question to the Secretary of State: how can we stop this dilemma, this greenwashing, and how can we amend this bill or put a Dutch head on it to ensure that people who buy green electricity really know that it is green electricity? And if we're about to get green hydrogen trading, we really need to know that it's green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u28	Does the PvdA also agree with the opinion of the Animal Party that these guarantees of origin should also help to reduce the overall CO content? They should not contribute to maintaining the CO content. I would like an answer to that. Mr Thijssen very much agrees with the CDA, but I wonder if he agrees with the question we asked the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u29	If the share of renewable energy is increased in the Netherlands or in Europe, I believe that this will reduce the use of fossil energy. So the CO emissions go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u30	That's nice, but in the system that makes guarantees possible, you can add a green component to a residual product from the fossil industry, making it a green product. I don't think the PvdA wants that either. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u31	Now I do not know if I fully understand what Mr Van Raan means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u32	Then he'll come and explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u33	Yeah, exactly. We have plenty of time, don't we, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u34	We have all the time in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u35	That's that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u36	All the time!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u37	That is that from the fossil industry, for example the plastic industry or the oil industry, a residual product, CO, can be used to turn green energy back into a so-called green gas. That green gas can also get a GvO, so green gas gets the predicate that it's absolutely good, while it doesn't do anything about reducing the CO concentration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u38	Is it clear now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u39	Now it's clear to the PvdA, I wonder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u40	I think it's clear to me now. That's an interesting question. I'm gonna have to think about that. How does the circularity, the circular economy that we want to achieve, relate to the fact that it really brings environmental benefits, and I think that we want to use green energy to do so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u41	If we do that in the second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u42	I need a little more time for that, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u43	Can you do that in the second term? Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u44	That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u45	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u47	Then Mr. Erkens is going to talk us to lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr. Chairman. If you tell me to talk to you about lunch, I'll try to be brief, because of course I don't want to be between you and lunch. This bill was originally a hammer piece. It aims to implement a European Directive to promote the use of energy from renewable sources. In particular, it concerns the system of POs, the guarantees of origin, for other gas from renewable sources. It is therefore a very limited technical proposal. Anyway, we're standing here and so I've also made a short contribution. Mr. Chairman. Guarantees of origin are the exclusive proof that energy has been generated from a renewable source. This allows traders and suppliers to demonstrate that energy comes from renewable sources. This can accelerate the growth of a European market in renewable energy. In this capacity, it can also count on our support. The match between supply and demand can therefore also take place at European level rather than only locally. This will, for example, stimulate the supply of renewable energy in countries where demand is low, but where potential supply is high. This market naturally falls or stands with confidence in the validity of those guarantees of origin. I have a number of questions to ask the Secretary of State. First of all, how can we prevent double counting and double counting of CO profits? I am thinking, for example, of the renewable energy CoR and the Green Hydrogen CoR, which is supplied on this basis. Secondly, how do we check that the delivered SAIs are actually sustainable and have not been sold several times to other Member States? This will become even more important in the future, as it is foreseen that this market will grow further. In order to cope with this growth in time, I have the following questions. What improvements does the government see at European level as regards checking the validity of POs? How can the Netherlands better prepare for the rapid growth of this market and check the validity of these GVOs? What action should be taken in the coming years, according to the government? Mr President, my final point. Hydrogen can be made from different energy sources. Does hydrogen produced from nuclear energy, if it were to enter taxonomy, also receive a guarantee of origin in this directive? That would be a good thing for us just before Christmas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u49	Nice and short: we like that. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u50	I actually have the same question to Mr Erkens as I asked the PvdA, because this is about the COO of the other gases. Just the other gases are a complex whole of... Well, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u51	If it is the same question, Mr Erkens can answer it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u53	I would like to see the question repeated, because at that time I was mainly concerned with my own input, I say in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u54	There's a very long explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr President, if we are going to have lunch, I should like to ask him informally whether he will return to it in the second term. If that'll do you a favor, we'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u56	That sounds great. Thank you for your sporty cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u58	Very good. So far... Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u59	I would like to know what the VVD thinks of those electricity providers who buy fossil electricity on the spot market, then buy very little money from Europe and then sell them as green electricity. People think they're contributing to the energy transition, but they don't actually do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u60	I think that is a good question from Mr Thijssen. Whatever system you rig up around GvO's, I think you'll always see that these kinds of situations occur. In this respect, I found Mr Boucke's speech quite interesting, about how we can achieve greater transparency towards consumers, so you know what you are purchasing from your energy supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u61	Rounding, short and pointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u62	Can we not then ensure that this can no longer be done, that consumers cannot say that they have green electricity when it is only demonstrated by a COO? Shouldn't it be said: you can sell green electricity if you have a GvO and if you have a power purchase agreement, which shows that the power has been generated sustainably?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u63	I imagine you get different tastes in the systems. With sustainable electricity generated in the Netherlands and in which there is clear investment, I think you have the option that Mr Thijssen calls it. Then you can tell the consumer where the sustainable electricity comes from. And then you'll probably have the lightest flavor of green in it, like it's happening right now at that spot market. I am certainly open to a discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u64	Fine. I wish you all a good meal. At 12:30 we will listen to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u65	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you very much. Thanks for all the questions. We are talking today about a rather technical subject, which you may have seen a bit on the basis of the questions, but it is also really very important in the larger whole of the climate transition, the energy transition, which we are now in the middle of. That is why it is good to start briefly, so that we also have the conversation in the right context. The transition to clean energy and a climate-neutral economy can only be achieved if we work together in Europe towards common goals. With 27 Member States and some 450 million inhabitants, you can make much more difference together. Through cooperation at European level, we ensure that all countries and companies in the EU have to comply with the same rules. This will maintain the level playing field for businesses and prevent companies from dispersing across borders in countries and thus taking the jobs with them. We want to keep the jobs in our country. Together, if we impose stricter requirements on the share of clean energy in sectors, we encourage innovation. This makes it clear to all concerned companies and people at home and in Europe outside our country how high the common ambition is. This way you don't hunt entrepreneurs across the border, but create your trust, peace and ambition. The same applies to the internal energy market, which is also the subject of the legislative proposal. The introduction of the new European Renewable Energy Directive, the RED II, is our common way of laying down rules of play across Europe. It makes the playing field level and the policy effective. A little more detail, but not so much, Mr. Chairman. This bill makes it possible to provide guarantees of origin for cold gases and for gases other than natural gas, such as hydrogen. Because until now, we only have this for electricity, natural gas and heat. So there's more to it than that. It is also very important that this counts for other gases. Why? Because at the moment energy leaves the production site, the grid goes up or enters the customer, it is no longer possible to determine with which energy source it was produced. This applies to all forms of energy. That is why the guarantees of origin are of great importance. I'm gonna try to avoid the abbreviation, but COOs will come by a few times during the debate. Those are the guarantees of origin. Those guarantees of origin are the exclusive evidence that energy has been generated from a renewable source. This allows traders and suppliers to demonstrate that their energy comes from renewable sources. The present legislative proposal will make it possible to do this more broadly. And it's a small step. I think that most of the questions that were asked also show that this is a step but that several steps will be needed later. However, it is a necessary step in view of further developments in the field of hydrogen, among others. Well, I guess I'll just go straight to the questions. I've got a couple of folders. I'll start with the guarantees of origin, the SACs. After that, I will briefly discuss biomass. Then I will say something about green gases/hydrogen and then about the power purchase agreements. Finally, I have a folder that contains, among other things, the blockchain, the Energy Act and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u67	If you'll just tell me when you're done with a block, we'll do the interruptions at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u68	Yes. Then I start with sustainability and guarantees of origin. Mr Van Raan had a number of questions about this. He says that a lot is still under development and asks whether all sources are really sustainable and whether only renewable energy is being spent on renewable energy. We've done our best to get his questions straight. 'Cause I see him a little bit now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u69	So summing up the questions already took some effort? Then I wonder what the answer will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yeah, watch this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u71	We're gonna sit down for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yes! The Netherlands is following the EU when it comes to which sources are or are not renewable. That is quite an important point to begin with, because it could be that Mr Van Raan and I are about to disagree. We follow the EU and the EU states which sources are or are not renewable. Under the Renewable Energy Directive, only guarantees of origin may be issued for energy from renewable sources. These sources are also exhaustively included in the Directive. This ensures that only guarantees of origin are issued for energy from renewable sources. Mr Kops said that this is a lucrative trade and asked what the size of it is. Over the last 12 months, some 60,000 gigawatts of guarantees of origin have been charged in the Netherlands. The value of guarantees of origin fluctuates. For 2021, PBL assumed a value of €4 per megawattuur.This is not very cheap. for Dutch guarantees of origin for electricity. This value is higher in our country than in our neighbouring countries. On this basis, the size of the market of guarantees of origin does not exceed 240 million. Mr Erkens said that the market needs confidence and that it is also about the match between supply and demand. He added the question of how to prevent double counting. That is a very important point. There is also a real need for clarity about the link between the use and production of green electricity. In the case of hydrogen, therefore, we are looking at the European requirements that are currently being worked out. They'll come to us. In a delegated act, we expect it in the short term. Then we can also deal more specifically with when hydrogen can be characterised as renewable or not. We will also follow that line from Europe. That's coming up. These requirements should then ensure that CO reduction occurs and that this CO reduction only counts once. These requirements will then help us to avoid double counting, for example by requiring hydrogen production and electricity production to take place at the same time. I think that we will soon be able to discuss this with Mr Erkens as soon as that information has come here. Mr Erkens then asked what improvements the Secretary of State sees at European level and what actions still need to be taken in the coming years. We have entered full disclosure at your request. This means that we issue certificates of origin for fossil energy, so that there is basically a certificate for all forms of electricity, for fossil and for renewables. For fossil it is called a "certificate of origin" and for renewable it is called a "guarantee of origin." But the full disclosure and transparency is one step closer. At European level, we only have guarantees of origin for renewable sources, so I think it would be good to provide a certificate for all electricity in Europe. That is something we must achieve in Europe too. And let me add what I said just now to another question from Mr Erkens. For hydrogen, the European Commission is introducing stricter rules. So that's what we're waiting for. That's gonna help us. Then it's really about when hydrogen is renewable and when hydrogen can get a subsidy. So that line's still coming. Then Mr Thijssen had a question about the prices of guarantees of origin. That is why I was just looking at Mr Thijssen with one eye when I replied to Mr Kops about the value shown by the PBL in 2021. That is the value of €4 per megawatt hour for the Dutch guarantees of origin for electricity. This value is therefore higher than in the surrounding countries. In recent years, the price of foreign guarantees of origin for wind energy from Italy, for example, or hydropower, has been lower than ours. Mr Thijssen asks how we can ensure that energy is really green. Can a national headline be put on the system of POs to encourage more renewable energy to be produced in the Netherlands? I think it is right to emphasise that guarantees of origin are primarily intended to provide transparency to consumers about the origin of energy. That's the goal. The system of guarantees of origin ensures that renewable energy is definitely involved. That is actually what Mr Boucke has just said, that it is very important that it is transparent for the consumer. So those guarantees of origin indicate where the energy was produced. For example, guarantees originating in different countries can be distinguished on the market. In addition, these guarantees can also be used to stimulate the production of renewable energy. Of course, it is always good if that is encouraged. It is not the end in itself, but those SACs are negotiable, have a value and we see that this creates an incentive. As I said, because the value in the Netherlands has a higher price than in neighbouring countries, it also makes it easier for producers to get that business case around. I'm done with my first folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u73	This entire GPO system makes it possible for energy suppliers to sell shuffle power, to buy the cheapest possible, dirty power, to buy GSOs somewhere in Europe and then say to the consumer: this is green electricity. If that had indeed led to more sustainable energy production elsewhere in Europe, you could have said that it contributes to it. But that price is so low that it does not lead to more sustainable energy production. That's why it's shuffle stream. And that's why 78% of Dutch households think "I have green power from my socket" when they actually just have coal power from their socket, with some kind of magazine elsewhere in Europe that's worthless, which would turn out to be green.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u74	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u75	I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Does she recognise this problem and is she prepared to consider with the Chamber how we are going to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u76	Yes, Mr President, I think it is very helpful that we agree on this in the directives at European level. This also means, for example, that measuring companies in our country will check whether it is renewable and how it works. The ACM in turn supervises those measuring companies. That will also have to be arranged, not only in the Netherlands; that is a European directive, so we will set it up. So I think you are already getting one step closer to finding a solution to the point that Mr Thijssen is making. I understand that very well. There's something else we can do. That has been discussed before in the debate and in motions for resolutions. People don't see where that power comes from on their energy bill right now. We could add the country of origin. People don't see the Cossacks. Those who look at their energy bills do not see very much of it. You could just add: here you have wind from Belgium and here you have sun from the Netherlands. That makes it a step more transparent and closer. We must prevent it from becoming opaque; none of us want it to be. Mr Thijssen asked about the national headline. I think we could do it this way to get closer to transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u77	Maybe. Maybe something nice is happening. On the first point, who puts some on the net and whether that is sustainable... I do not have such worries. If we assume that the system works completely well and that there is no fraud and the controls go well, then I can buy green electricity that is actually coal flow from the Netherlands, but there is a note from Italy that GvO's were made there for a solar park. I think it would help if I could see on my account: Mr Thijssen, I bought you coal power and I greened it with a certificate from Italy. I think it would help if those two things were in the account. I'll take one more step; let's see if the Secretary of State wants to go along with that. I think it's fair if we can't sell that as green electricity. It's just coal flow, but there's just a note that green electricity has been generated elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u78	Maybe this is what we can do to get closer. Look, you only get those guarantees of origin if that origin was literally renewable. Mr Thijssen does not mean that either, but it is good to say that it is not concealed or otherwise filled in. I myself am also looking to make it increasingly transparent, including for the people at home who attach a great deal of importance to it, and there are more and more of them. I think it's good to investigate how this can become insightful on the energy bill. Let me say that before the vote on the law I have come up with a short note explaining how we can do this. Whether that becomes complete, as Mr Thijssen sketches it, or in another feasible way, let's see for a moment. It is a step towards the transparency we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u79	Let's take a look at the railroad records. We'll vote on the law on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u80	Yes, but this is, as far as I am concerned, a short paragraph with: so that we can make this clear every now and then. Then the Chamber will know what the possibilities are now and when it can enter. There's definitely potential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mr Thijssen, concluding, brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u82	That would be great, but I'm still going one step further. That shuffle stream causes a lot of greenwashing to take place. 78% of the Dutch think they're getting green electricity, while the share of green electricity is much smaller. My group believes that it is important to restrict the sale of green electricity. If we have that transparency with a COO, which is by definition green according to the agreements in the European system, then the power purchase agreement must also be green. It must be from a sustainable source. Then you can sell it as green electricity. Can the Secretary of State indicate in her letter how we can ensure that only this way green electricity can be sold in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u83	Not quite. I'll be back on those power purchase agreements. It's a good idea, but it's also very complex. To make it as easy for ourselves, we have to pull things apart. This is a directive from Europe, which we are implementing nationally. That's what we're trying to do in a sensible way. If Mr Thijssen would also like to consider how we have arranged the rest, this is really not covered by this legal procedure. Let's discuss that in another place. Then we can see how we can make it even sharper. We shouldn't get too many things intertwined. That's not what this law is about. However, I am prepared to see how we can go one step further along the lines of the law by making it more transparent on the energy bill. But if we bring in a lot of things that are not actually covered by the law, it becomes very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u84	You now choose one option...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u85	The Secretary of State elects...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u86	I'm gonna make this mistake more often, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u87	That's okay. I'm on earth to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u88	I'm only human.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u89	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u90	The Secretary of State says: I'm going to see how we can adjust that energy bill on this point. Then we will make it very complex for all energy suppliers. You can start thinking on the other side. Guarantees of origin, international trade and so on, we all know it's a little tricky. If you want to do something on the energy bill, shouldn't you just put down the electricity mix of the Netherlands? Of these, about 20% is renewable electricity, currently. By 2030 it will be +70%. So we don't even have a problem anymore. So why are we making things so complicated? Then why don't we give much less attention to those guarantees of origin, and not just put the Dutch electricity label on the energy bill? That's what physically pulls people out of the power grid, the Dutch energy mix, 20% renewable, and not 80%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u91	Let me make sure I take that in that short note. I am not going to do that anymore, because otherwise it will not be possible for the votes, so I have to be honest with you. But I'm still taking this consideration into account. The energy bill should not become a whole book, which is not what Mr Bontenbal means either, and not as long as a Christian Union motion, for example, but clearly. And then we can take a look at the two variants and see very quickly in the house what is feasible and what is most useful for the people. We are all in favour of transparency, I think. So I'm looking at what extra step on the energy bill is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u92	Thank you. These seem to me to be good steps in transparency. But there's something that has to be part of that by definition, otherwise the whole system won't work. In the example of the green electricity generated in Italy, a GvO comes to the Netherlands, et cetera. Then it must also be the case that you can no longer count that green stream in Italy as a green stream for Italy. Otherwise, you're assigning the same thing twice. Does the Secretary of State agree, and how is she going to ensure that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u93	That is a bit of the answer I gave to Mr Erkens. How do you avoid double counting? These additional European rules and requirements, for example for hydrogen, are going to help us. Then it's really about the time of use and production; that's how it's going to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u94	That's possible; then we'll wait for that again, et cetera. But the whole joke of these SACs is that it goes from production to final consumption. I think the Secretary of State agrees with me on that. So you're gonna have to take care of that right away, or you're gonna get a whole bunch of double counting. You can count that on your fingers already. So we can never vote on such a law, if that is not yet settled properly, or if the Secretary of State cannot say: I am sure that is secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u95	This is a very complex subject, but it may not be necessary to make it even more complex than it already is. Those CoPs are a European directive. Each Member State must now implement it. They have to make sure that they are measurable and that they are properly monitored, so you can't just get those double counts. This is as I said in my introductory text: it is a small step, but it is a very important next step in our energy transition. And it is precisely those additional rules that are going to come from Europe on different parts, including hydrogen, that are also going to make it ever clearer and easier to avoid double counting. So we're not saying, "with one law, we're gonna take care of everything." But for anyone who considers the process of clean, renewable energy to be important, I would say that this law really makes an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u96	No, that's not the case. What you now regulate is not the sustainability, but making it possible to maintain all kinds of fossil processes, if you don't take out those double counts for sure. That's what's actually going on. And then you make a deterioration of a system while you wait and hope for the coming of additional arrangements. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u97	This is what I mean by not making it any more confusing or complex than it already is. Now we're bringing in things that don't add up. A COO, I repeat, can only be issued if it comes from renewable sources. So there is no fossil systems and fossil resources to sustain by sticking only a guarantee of origin on them. That's what we're doing with the law now. That is what we agree on all over Europe: it is about renewable origin; it must be renewable. Then Mr. Van Raan may shake no, but this is the law and these are the facts as they are. And then perhaps the interpretation and opinions in that sense are a little less relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u98	First of all, I'd like to apologize. I'm about to have another debate. So I can't quite follow the Secretary of State's input, for which I apologize. But I would like to continue on Mr Thijssen's point. For the Secretary of State says: "This is a European directive, which we are interpreting. Let's solve a national problem that is there in a different way." However, I believe that we should try to resolve this issue of transparency here. The guarantees of origin ensure that people think they are getting green electricity out of the outlet, while in fact they are not. I am therefore very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to my proposal on the power purchase agreements. This is indeed a way in which we can deal with this and organise something for a national transparency problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u99	That's what it's about later, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u100	I can go straight to that part, as Mr Boucke has to leave a little early. I can give you that answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u101	Thank you for your service. Highly appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u102	In addition to Mr Boucke's questions, questions were also put by Mr Thijssen and Mr Bontenbal and other Members of Parliament. I understand the question about the PPAs, as they are called, the power purchase agreements; I also looked for them myself. I also see the dilemma. Why is it a dilemma? It's not a very easy thing to impose. These are agreements that can be concluded between suppliers and companies throughout Europe, at any level. There are countless of them. As a government, you can say that you're going to make that mandatory, but you're going to talk about an awful lot, which you can never test for yourself and which you can never supervise for yourself. Then you find yourself in a situation where you have set up a whole network of things that have actually achieved the opposite of transparency. Companies can agree to this, and they can indicate it. That is, of course, very nice, but my dilemma is this: at the moment when you impose this as a government, you set something so complex that we cannot guarantee transparency in the first place, but also in the second place, and I do not think it is very important to monitor it. We can do that with the guarantees of origin. That's why I'm looking for what else we can do ourselves. Hence my offer to see what more we can do on the energy bill towards the people at home in terms of transparency. I share that search one hundred percent. There is absolutely no difference of opinion. Technically, anything is possible, but what have we rigged up, and have we achieved our goal? I doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u103	Was this the whole block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u105	Okay. I don't want it anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u106	I suspect it's going on a little longer now, but in principle this was my answer, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u107	Well, Mr Bontenbal can also be very short and pointy. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u108	I am going to do it very briefly, Mr President. In my view, this debate should not be about guarantees of origin as they have long been regulated. We're not gonna change that anymore. Part of the debate should have taken place earlier, as far as I am concerned. In my view, it is particularly important: what is the link between the legislative proposal now, so what are we going to do about guarantees of origin on hydrogen, for example, and the policy we are pursuing? Let me make it very concrete. Suppose there's a refinery coming, or there is, and it's using hydrogen. Can the refinery say: I buy guarantees of origin and with that my hydrogen is green? For someone who imports hydrogen from the Middle East, tell Air Products that there is a factory there and immediately gets its own green hydrogen from the Middle East, that certificate trade is not yet settled, but with GMOs in the Netherlands that can be done. In my view, therefore, the main issue is the link between the guarantees of origin and the policy we have here in the Netherlands on green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u109	Yes. I shall now turn to Mr Bontenbal's question and his speech. I was just checking my paperwork to be more service, but this is coming later. As I have just said to Mr Erkens, what we are dealing with here is the following. We are implementing the European directive on the CoRs. It says really simple: the source must be renewable, and then you get such a GPO. There's no misunderstanding about that. That's when the hydrogen story comes. It depends on whether it can count as renewable or not, whether green or not, and for that we are again dependent on the new set of rules that will come from Europe. So that is not yet settled. We are there ourselves to deliver our input through the various Councils and you name it where we are going. But the question of whether this counts as renewable, yes or no, will have to be settled at European level first. Mr Bontenbal knows that discussion very well. This debate is very broad in Europe, and everyone has a different view. But that's the next step. I'm going to repeat it one more time: this is an important step, but it's a small one. With this law, we do not yet deal with all these issues, which are extremely relevant to our national policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thanks for the answer. That's clear. The next step is coming, so that's good. I suspect we still have some influence on that. Shouldn't we make it very simple? Hydrogen from electricity is called green hydrogen. We don't figure out where that electricity comes from, because we're gradually greening it, making it CO-free. Then there's the category of blue hydrogen. We know we're using CCS. We also have gray energy. Isn't that enough? Shouldn't we have a system for that and let those guarantees of origin go for the coupling with green hydrogen, so to speak? I have the feeling that we are making it terribly complex, and we need to make it much simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u111	I'm not sure. I have written down 'Mr Henri Escher' above Mr Bontenbal's question. Does he now refer to his argument of "complexing"? I must say that after his speech I was ready for Christmas. It was a good argument. I think it's wise to just really separate those things right now, because the law now before us doesn't regulate all that. There's gonna be a technical briefing on hydrogen soon. This will be part of that. I'll also give you a broader letter on hydrogen and we'll discuss it with each other. Those are the moments when we are discussing this. What do we find in the Netherlands? What is to come from Europe? What else is our bet there? But Mr Bontenbol is right. What's ahead now is actually a clearer story than those GVOs. If it's renewable, you'll get a stamp like that. Now we are going to find ways to make it more transparent for consumers at national level, what it means for our own hydrogen policy and what it means for our commitment in Europe. That is why I said to Mr Van Raan: let us not mix all these things here, because then we cannot take this step, when it is a useful step. All these other things are really on schedule and we're not gonna forget them. I think the technical briefing is already in the new year. The debate is right after that. Those are the moments to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u112	Fine. Then we'll go to the biomass. Oh, there is another question from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u113	I don't know if I fully understand the Secretary of State's response to the PPAs. You just promised a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u114	The Secretary of State has just promised a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u115	Sorry, the Secretary of State just said she's coming up with a letter before the vote on how to make the energy bill, the GPS, and where the power comes from. So these are PPAs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u116	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u117	Then what do we get insight into?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u118	No, I really didn't say that. The DAs aren't gonna be on the power bill. On the energy bill we make clear which country the energy comes from. I just gave the example of sunshine from the Netherlands and wind from Belgium. That's what you're gonna see. You can't see that on your energy bill right now. Mr Thijssen and I know enough people who would like to see it again. So I'm gonna try to do that. Mr Bontenbal asked: can't you see better if you can make the energy mix transparent? I'll turn off those two things by the end of the day. We ensure that the vote is made clear what can be done with that energy bill. I can never make these agreements transparent in an energy account, because they go between companies and suppliers, whether at European level or not. That can be about all kinds of different levels of agreements. That is my argument. I understand the search and the dilemma. I also understand why we're wondering, isn't that something interesting? At the same time, it is very nice when companies want to meet each other. It's very nice if they make that clear to customers themselves. That's great, but then I can't check and monitor it from the government. That really doesn't make it more transparent. So we're not helping the people at home at all. Well, I think I've told you in detail what's in that letter. I think it is a nice and significant step towards the transparency of energy bills.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u119	Actually, I don't think so. People like to buy green electricity. Whether that's green electricity from Italy or the Netherlands, doesn't matter much. Okay, I like green electricity from the Netherlands better, but you can still say: that doesn't matter very much. But if underneath there's a coal plant with a PPA, you don't have any green power at all. Then we'll keep the shuffle stream going. Then we will maintain the litany of the PVV. Then there is doubt about this system and whether green electricity is actually green electricity. So I don't understand why it can't be said to energy companies: if you supply green electricity, you show with your GvO that you have GvO's and with your PPA you show that you've bought your power green. Then you can call it green. Why can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u120	It's possible. We can say to companies that we think this is important. I say two things. Do not ask me now in a law that is not about that to say that it is compulsory. I say to you: there is hardly any monitoring, because that works on so many levels. That doesn't make it more transparent. Then we take on something we can't live up to. That's why I'm saying you can say it well to companies, but don't take it over as a government. Two. If you think that we should change the arrangement we have, then that is another debate, ideally with a new ruler, with a new coalition agreement. But that has nothing to do with the law before it. It is precisely to move from the limitations of the law that is before me that I hear Mr Thijssen say that he is looking for transparency..................................................................................................................................................... But from everything else that Mr Thijssen wants to do, think about changing policy and a different approach, I say: do it at another time, in another place, so that you can really talk about it in terms of content, and so that you can get what you want when you are going to force the government to have such an agreement on it. This is not feasible in terms of monitoring and transparency for the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u121	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u122	Rounding off, short. I understand that I want something national and that this is a European law. The point is that this European law makes it possible to scam flow in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, green electricity is a whole thing, and 78% of the Netherlands wants to contribute by buying green electricity, but in the rest of Europe that's a much less big thing, so all the GvO's come to the Netherlands. These greenwash the coal and gas flows in the Netherlands. That's the problem. That's why we're making such a big deal about it. I understand that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u123	That the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u124	...that the Secretary of State would like us to arrange that in another place. Can I then be promised by the Secretary of State that we will take care of this elsewhere and that she will ensure that the game flow stops in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u125	I did not say that Mr Thijssen wants to settle something national, but we are doing something European here. I'll try to make it clear one more time. What Mr Thijssen wants to do, which he thinks the government should take charge of, is not feasible. It's going to be an innumerable number of agreements. That is not transparent. No housekeeping was helped with that, because that's not what you see at all. That's impossible to keep up with. Then we cannot have control of it ourselves. What we are doing now with those guarantees of origin, which you can only get when the source is renewable, is creating a system that allows us to provide transparency, which we can monitor. There are measuring companies that need to do this very carefully. Everyone in Europe has to do that. That is why I say that this is an important step. If you want to take other steps as a Chamber, I would say: discuss this with a new cabinet, but do not think that the PPAs are the solution. There are so many complex aspects that as a government you are failing to provide transparency and supervision. I got my folders mixed up, but according to your list, I'm going to biomass now, right, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u127	I'm gonna do it now. Of course, I come to a question from Mr Van Raan. He asked: is the Secretary of State prepared to exclude biomass from the SACs? In my first answer to a question from Mr Van Raan, I said that I can imagine that we will have a discussion on this. This is the moment. These guarantees of origin are implemented under the European Directive. We cannot exclude energy that is referred to as renewable in the directive. This means that Europe indicates: we have agreed that these are renewable sources. We are now implementing those rules from Europe in our own law. We don't have a choice menu in there. We are following the European Union in what is'renewable qualifying'. That's the cabinet's point of view, for a long time. We chose not to use that as a choice menu. That is why I am not prepared to exclude biomass. Then I guess I'm with green gases and hydrogen on your list, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u129	Okay, good. That is also a question from Mr Van Raan: how are you going to prevent all kinds of gases that are not renewable? We have just said it a few times, but it is an important point. The bill stipulates that the energy carrier used for the production of hydrogen must be renewable. I understand the scenarios outlined by Mr Van Raan, but it is quite clear here. It is secured by the intake of guarantees of origin by the input energy. The renewable production of the input energy shall be ensured by the information required to be submitted in order to obtain the guarantees of origin. This is, for example, about the measurement data. Again, Mr Van Raan and I may differ on what we qualify as "renewable," but it is transparent what is qualified as renewable. That's the only thing that's eligible for the SACs. In this sense, I can prevent all kinds of gases from being eligible which are not renewable. But now and then we differ on that definition. Then I guess I've only got the folder left. Is that right with you, Mr. Chairman? Well, then it goes well. Mr Van Raan says: is blockchain technology also being looked at in GM systems? The production of renewable energy is controlled by independent measuring companies. It is up to those measuring companies to see what technology they use for this and whether blockchain is useful. Those measuring companies are supervised by the ACM on the basis of the legislative proposal. This also ensures the reliability of these data as far as we are concerned. Mr Van Raan asked whether there was a view of the fraud sensitivity of guarantees of origin. This is, for example, about dirty gas, which Mr Thijssen also mentioned. Let me repeat the answer again, because they are important points. The reliability of guarantees of origin is ensured by the control of all production values by independent measuring companies. They are therefore supervised by the ACM. All producers should draw up a measurement protocol at least every five years and establish that their plant is suitable for the production of renewable energy. In this way we have built in all these safeguards. Mr Boucke asked whether the possibility of better matching procurement and delivery could be exploited within the GVO system. In recent years, it is apparent that energy suppliers and users are paying more attention to what guarantees of origin they use. This year, the certifying party, CertiQ, has explored how guarantees of origin can be given a time stamp. For this purpose, procurement and delivery of guarantees of origin could also be linked, for example, on an hourly basis. Then we will be one step closer to what several Members of Parliament have just asked me for in interruptions. It's still on a monthly basis now, but then you get closer and you can do it on an hourly basis. Several developments are taking place at European level to support the additional production of green electricity. So that's another step. Mr Boucke also asked about the state of play of the Collective Heat Supply Act and the Energy Act. The Energy Act has recently been sent to several regulators for the feasibility and enforcement test. The Collective Heat Supply Act is also at the stage of the feasibility and enforcement test and the test of the local authorities, which obviously have an important role to play in this. Consultations are now also taking place between local authorities, heat companies, network companies and Home Affairs. The last question is from Mr Kops, unless I forget something. I think I am forgetting Mr Erkens' question on taxonomy and nuclear energy. So I'll come back to that in a moment. Mr Kops asks: how does the Secretary of State ensure that green certificates are actually used only for green energy? I thought that was a nice question from the PVV. I know that Mr Kops immediately added that it doesn't have to be from the PVV, but he asked how to make sure it works properly. Under the Renewable Energy Directive, only guarantees of origin may be issued for energy from renewable sources. That reliability of guarantees of origin is guaranteed, as I said earlier, by the control of all production values by those independent measuring companies, which are once again supervised by the ACM. I hope I have answered that question with that too. Here I have the question from Mr Erkens, who says: can hydrogen from nuclear power, the purple or pink.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have just said to Mr Van Raan that we are following in the Netherlands what Europe indicates as renewable or non-renewable. That is why we are not currently providing guarantees of origin for nuclear energy. At European level, it is said that this is not the case. Nuclear energy may receive certificates of origin for non-renewable energy sources, but that was not Mr Erkens' question. This is all quite separate from taxonomy. This doesn't change anything. This has been decided from Europe and we have decided to take it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u130	Was that the State Secretary's contribution? Thank you very much for that. Perhaps there is one more question. Yes, Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u131	I have a solution to the problem we have, namely that I think we all want to get out of it. But how can it work with the PPAs? Now every year a power ranking is made by the Consumers' Association, Nature & Environment and a number of other organisations. They use the guarantees of origin, but also the PPAs. They are confidential, so they need CE Delft to ensure that confidentiality, but in this way they can make clear which energy suppliers have which GPAs and PPAs. So I think it's possible. I think that we can just pass European law and move on, but we can work something out in the Netherlands so that people can see: if my current is green, it is really green.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u132	I appreciate that Mr Thijssen has been looking for an alternative or an intermediate solution. Perhaps I can specifically include this point of the report in the letter. Then I'm gonna ask you if this is feasible for us, because it's got to be possible. I don't want to make a commitment here that I can't live up to. However, in the letter before the vote, I take this particular suggestion from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u133	That's great. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u134	Everybody happy. That's how we're gonna go whistling into the Christmas tree. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u135	No, but pay attention. Now comes Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u136	I'm afraid so, too. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait a minute. I'm just checking to see if there are any questions, but there aren't any. Mr Van Raan is already eagerly impatient. We shall now proceed to the second term. I call Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. This is exactly why we as the Party for Animals have "hammed" this. It is really a very complex story, while the simplicity that Mr Bontenbal is looking for is of course already in the existing GVO's. Again, these are COOs for the other gases. If that means that the total CO content is not secured in the core, then that is not a good system in the core, because that is what this is about. It's not about pumping CO into other gases, but it's about dropping. That is why we are going to propose that the votes be postponed, because we really need to discuss this further. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that guarantees of origin may be issued for biomass;]] [[Whereas the burning of trees for energy is not sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow guarantees of origin for woody biomass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that guarantees of origin can now be provided and that they do not lead to more sustainable energy production;]] [[calls on the Government to make the increase in sustainable energy production in the Netherlands a condition for guarantees of origin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that guarantees of origin are intended to prove that energy has been produced in a sustainable way;]] [[Whereas energy produced by CO cannot be regarded as sustainable since the cumulative CO particles should in any case be reduced;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow guarantees of origin for energy produced by CO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35814-8]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35814-9]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35814-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u138	I see the Secretary of State thinking. Those are the green gases that are produced with renewable energy, but still contain the C-atoms. Then the last one, a general but important one, I think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a need to raise awareness of the total CO contained in the atmosphere and to continue to increase;]] [[noting that there are already initiatives for real-time carbon tracking, e.g. co2.earth;]] [[calls on the President to hang a CO clock in the Lower House so that climate change can be closely monitored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35814-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u139	The number of particles has to go down. That's the point, that's the point. Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of comments, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u140	Where's that clock gonna hang? And does it have to be a big clock or an egg alarm clock?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u141	Thank you for your positive thinking. I think that if the motion is adopted, we can start thinking about it very creatively together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u142	I do have a few suggestions, but I'll tell you that outside the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u143	I think I know what those suggestions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u144	I'm very neutral; you know that. Mr Boucke had already said goodbye to us, but as a sort of Heintje Davids he has just returned, with a great timing especially for his second term. That is why I am giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just out of the other debate. I have a motion and I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u146	You're out of breath, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u147	A little bit, yeah. It was a run.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u148	In the Christmastreces you should really work on your condition, because it wasn't that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u149	Well, you don't know how fast I ran. My condition is excellent. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, within the current "guarantee of origin" system, incentives for sustainable growth and investment security are insufficient;]] [[Whereas a contribution to the sustainability of the electricity market by supplier of green electricity may vary considerably by allowing the supply of green electricity to be purchased both sustainably and non-sustainably;]] [[whereas a power purchase agreement (PPA) provides investment security and thereby boosts the sustainability of the electricity market;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to examine the possibility of extending the GPA system by providing GPAs on an hourly or 15-hour basis instead of just on an annual basis, so that parties can conclude PPAs on the basis of these, thereby giving an impetus to the sustainability of the electricity market;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the electricity label of Dutch energy suppliers can also include information on the country of origin of the GVOs used so that consumers can see where the electricity comes from,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35814-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u151	Be out of breath and still have to read out a motion of one and a half minutes. Yeah, that's how it works! Karma, karma. Mr. Bontenball.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had ten motions, but since the chairman was so strict, I don't have any motions right now. So I'm gonna cut you some slack again! Sometimes, when you look at these kinds of climate debates, it's all trouble and torment. And yes, 20% of electricity is now from renewable electricity sources. This will be over 70% by 2030. So let's be a little optimistic about that. The cabinet that has been there for the past four years has not done anything for nothing. We should be a little proud of that, too. I think the key question of this debate is: how do we link this bill to the policy we are going to have for green hydrogen? The Minister has indicated that Europe is still coming up with a whole story on this issue. We are going to talk about this in the Chamber ourselves for a long time. If I have to make the key question concrete: we will soon be able to hang green guarantees of origin on hydrogen, if it is produced with electricity that also has green guarantees of origin on it. We call it green hydrogen in the Netherlands, but what does it mean that we can call it green hydrogen? Or are we actually saying that we're going to hang these COOs on that hydrogen, but we're not calling it green, and we're not going to do anything with it in policy either? I would like to have a little more clarity about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u153	Very good. Then there is the last speaker from the Chamber: Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u154	A lot of employees work at home on corona, so I haven't printed the motion yet. But I'll print it for the Registry in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u155	Yeah, we absolutely need that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u156	I get that. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for this discussion. I think it is very important that we try to limit shit flow and ensure that people can trust that if they buy green electricity, they will also get real green electricity, and in the future that if something is made with green hydrogen, it is also really green hydrogen. Hence the next motion; pending the letter, of course, before Tuesday. But I'll serve her up, because this is my chance to submit her. Maybe he's not necessary. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy suppliers can buy fossil electricity in combination with guarantees of origin (GVOs) and sell it as green electricity;]] [[whereas customers are wrong in thinking that they are contributing to the energy transition;]] [[noting that the electricity ranking of the Consumers' Association and Nature and Environment shows that PPAs can be checked to show whether energy companies buy green electricity;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the Arrangement guarantees of origin so that it becomes clear to the customer when a supplier greens fossil power through procurement of GMOs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35814-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u157	The same question I asked Mr Erkens, which I did explain at lunchtime. Those guarantees of origin that we are talking about, these other gases, make it possible for renewable energy to reduce carbon back into the chain for longer as green gas. In other words, it does nothing about lowering the CO ceiling. Does the Labour Party agree that these types of POs should not be issued for that type of gas, because they do nothing about sustainability? I am going to ask Mr Erkens the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u158	But he has waived his second term, smart as he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u159	That's very clever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u160	So only Mr Thijssen goes for the bonus points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u161	Then we'll know how to deal with the VVD from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u162	Yeah, nice question. Let's say we're going to recycle fossil plastic, then that's good, because that's better than bringing new fossil raw materials into society. If we start recycling fossil plastic with grey electricity, it will lead to more CO emissions. If we use green electricity for this, it will lead to a reduction in CO emissions. With this we still have fossil plastic in the plastic bottles that we are recycling, but in the process of recycling the CO-tax has gone down. I believe that this is still an environmental improvement. Then the question remains how long we will continue to work with fossil plastic and with fossil raw materials to make our plastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u163	Then I conclude that it seems at first that the PvdA likes the level, because it is an improvement compared to an extension, because the level remains the same. But we'll talk about that another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u164	Fine. We'll do it another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u165	Well, sorry. I'd like to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u166	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u167	Sorry, but Mr Van Raan is now drawing a conclusion... I am seriously trying to answer this question. This question is about recycling plastic. You can do that with gray stream. You can do that with green electricity. If you do it with green electricity, it really does reduce CO pollution. In addition, we need to have a conversation about circularity, recycling and the way we do it as best we can. I didn't really answer that, because that wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u168	Very good. Mr Bontenbal, but very briefly, eh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u169	I have one more tricky question, just because it's fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u170	Yeah, it's kind of the freaks among each other, testing each other for knowledge. "Welcome to my committee," says the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u171	It's just an impulse I can't control. Green hydrogen can be extracted from green electricity, from wind at sea, whereas the same electricity could have been used directly at that time. So if you switch to hydrogen too quickly, you're actually throwing away green electricity, which is already scarce. Do you think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u172	"Find Mr Thijssen."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u173	Does Mr Thijssen think that you can call hydrogen green, which actually leads to less efficiency and additional CO emissions at system level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u174	Ideally, we are going very quickly to the electricity supply that Mr Bontenbal just mentioned, where we have 100% green electricity. I therefore hope for support for my motion in which I ask that we release that 35 terawatts and generate more green electricity. But these are very difficult dilemmas, because we are producing more green electricity but we are not quite there yet. While we want to use that green power to heat our homes, to burn our lamps and to drive our cars, we also need to really make meters in the hydrogen economy. It is inevitable that this will be suboptimal once in a while. But let's take a good look...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u175	Fine. Let's go doctor it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u176	...and cause as little losses as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u177	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u178	But is it green hydrogen? And is blue hydrogen one of those suboptimal solutions you want to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u179	Well, whether that's green hydrogen; that's what the rules we're meeting right now are about. As far as I am concerned, we need to ensure that this is not only demonstrated by a GPS, but also by a PPA. Then it's green hydrogen. Then you can use it as green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u180	Very good. The Secretary of State can answer immediately, I understand. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u181	I'm gonna do my best so you don't have to suspend, Mr. Chairman, and I'm gonna be able to get right on with it. Let's see how far I can get. Ah, there's a few more motions coming up. I shall begin with Mr Van Raan's motions. The motion in part No. 8 is about excluding woody biomass. I explained that I can't, so I'm not going to recommend that motion. The Van Raan motion in part No. 9 calls on the government to make the increase in sustainable energy production in the Netherlands a condition for guarantees of origin. As I said, these guarantees are part of a European system and a European energy market. It is not desirable for us to make separate Dutch POs and to deviate completely from them. I would like to mention the origin of the current on power labels, but I do not recommend the motion as such. I'm gonna continue with the motion on part number one. 11, because the other one just arrived. That motion also belongs to Mr Van Raan and concerns the CO clock. It says'requests the President', so yes... Do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u182	Well, I'll pass. I have to keep everyone a friend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u183	Okay. Then I'll go to the Van Raan motion in part number. 10. It states that "the government is not asking for guarantees of origin for energy produced by CO'. This has just been the subject of a good debate between Members. I advise against this motion. I think it's very good to follow it purely as it is now. In this transition phase, we have to accept from time to time that there are processes that cannot be fully CO-free. Then there is the Thijssen motion in part No. 13. I find some of that motion, but I would actually like to ask him to hold her for a moment until the letter arrives. I know he also said: I am waiting for that letter to see what I am going to do with the motion. I hereby recommend that the motion be retained. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. That letter's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u184	But "hold on" isn't advice. That is for the Member of Parliament concerned to decide, so I am looking at Mr Thijssen. He's gonna keep it exciting for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u185	Mr President, perhaps you could help me with the booklet? I'd be happy to continue the motion, because I'd like to read the letter. That letter's gonna be there by Tuesday. Can I say before Tuesday: but it is? Because then you have a judgment to give. Maybe after the letter you'll say, "I'll still judge Chamber." So how do we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u186	You can just hold the motion. Then comes the answer from the Secretary of State, and you may or may not be happy with it. This will enable you to bring the motion back into motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u187	I understand that, but then we're gonna miss the Secretary of State's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u188	No, because she already gave it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u189	If necessary, I will still take the judgment in the letter. Then it's all in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u190	Then we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u191	What a beautiful track record! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u192	Yeah, it's brilliant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u193	At the request of Mr Thijssen, I propose his motion (35814), No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u194	It has become almost as complex as Mr Bontenbal's Escher story, but we could follow this. Then there is the Boucke motion in part No. 12. I'm getting a little mixed up, excuse me. This motion calls for a number of issues in the context of transparency, as we have also discussed in the debate. I'll give it to you as far as I'm concerned, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. If it is all right, I have one more question from Mr Bontenbal. It was specifically about hydrogen. Mr Bontenbal went into that in more detail. For our hydrogen policy and the subsidies, we are looking in particular at the forthcoming regulations from Europe, as I have just said in detail. These guarantees of origin can play an important role in this. What role can we say when the European rules are clear? But I do think it is important to mention once again that we have not lost a moment with that. This is just the order in which it goes. We are all there ourselves and I think we share a lot of starting points. In the meantime, these guarantees of origin can in any case serve to demonstrate what market players are doing and what their commitment is. I think I will conclude with the same words as I started with: it is a first small step, but it is a very important one, so that we can go on and on. I believe that we are also moving in the direction most Members of Parliament wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u195	Very good. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u196	On Tuesday we will vote on the motions and the law. Before then, we will also receive a letter from the Secretary of State. Mr Van Raan has announced that he wants to postpone the votes, I understand. Does that put the Secretary of State in trouble in terms of the speed of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u197	It would certainly not be my advice; let me put it this way. Whether it gets me into technical trouble, I'm gonna have to check it out. If so, I'll make sure that's included in that letter. But I can say to Mr Van Raan that if he listens back to this, we will not get any closer with delay. He wants me to deviate from the European renewable energy list, but that is not what we are going to do and there is no majority for that either. So I do not think that postponement will produce a different outcome than we have just shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u198	I assume he's gonna ask for a delay in the settlement, that's how he's gonna do it. Thank you very much. So far. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her presence. So much for this debate.
