ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the joint debate on the initiative proposal 35488, the proposal for a law of member Nijboer amending Book 7 of the Civil Code and the Implementing Act on rental prices for housing, the Law on Maximising Rent Increases Liberalized Rental Contracts, and the legislative proposals 35516, Amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code, the Implementing Act on Rental Prices for Housing and the Housing Act and 35518, Amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code, of the Implementing Act on Rental Prices for Living Area and of the Housing Act, the amendment of rental possibilities and income limits. I call the initiator, Mr Nijboer, who will defend his initiative here, and welcome the forthcoming Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber. I shall open the debate and give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr President, thank you and welcome to the Minister. I could say that being too late may be symptomatic of the measures in the rental policy, but let me not put it so harshly. I'm just gonna keep my story. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing three legislative proposals on rents and rental prices today: two government proposals and an initiative proposal by Mr Nijboer, whom I congratulate on his initiative. All in all, a good reason to look a little more broadly at housing policy. I'll start with that, then I'll deal with the three legislative proposals. We have previously had rent debates with this minister, leading, among other things, to this Chamber's request for a rent freeze in 2020 and, ultimately, a motion rejecting the Minister's refusal to comply with this request. I do not need to go into this again now, but the Minister's letters on the implementation of the Beckerman and Nijboer motions on the freezing of rents in 2021 and their funding make me curious about a reflection of the Minister. How does she look back on her stubbornness with regard to the motion previously adopted in this Chamber, which asked for the same thing before 2020? Mr. Chairman. We're in the middle of a serious housing crisis. There are too few homes and there are mainly too few affordable homes. This applies both to the regulated sector and to the middle segment in the liberalised rental sector and the purchasing sector. This leads, among other things, to a lack of flow, long waiting lists, debt problems, greatly increased homelessness and necessarily staying at home with parents or ex-partner. In the past cabinet period, too little has happened to address this housing crisis. Yes, residential deals have been made and "building, building, building" has very often been called, but too little has been built and the housing crisis has not been reduced. On the contrary, I'd say. Widening the possibility of offering temporary leases has not contributed to solving the housing crisis, but has increased residential insecurity. Policy letters containing planned measures have also been written. But only a few of these measures have brought it into law and regulation. And what came, came very late, like the laws that are before us today. There's still some coming. I hope that the Minister will be able to give us a brief overview of the state of play and also to indicate whether it will continue to implement the measures. Or is everything still waiting for the formation of a new cabinet? More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can comment on the ministerial arrangement on the maximisation of the share of WMD value. What is the intended date of entry into force? What's the status of the buy-in protection? This bill was consulted in November. Has a bill gone to the Council of State by now? And if not, when will that happen? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Van Eijs motion, which was almost unanimously adopted in the House of Representatives, asking for an investigation into the possible forms of rent regulation in the free sector? It seems to my group that such an investigation should be launched as soon as possible, so that a new cabinet can get to work on its findings as soon as possible. Has the Minister taken any steps to get this investigation done? Mr. Chairman. I now come to the legislative proposals before us. Let me begin with Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal. I already complimented him on his initiative. And I would especially like to congratulate him on the fact that he has been going through wherever the government has been stalling. The Council of State was less pleased with this, I read the opinion. There the initiator is accused of wanting to tackle only an adverse effect, namely the unlimited rent increases in the free sector, without addressing the underlying structural problem. Unlike the Council of State, I am glad that Mr Nijboer wants to tackle at least the adverse effect. And I hope that it will encourage the government to proceed with the structural problem. The Council of State also notes that there is a risk that the proposal will have an undesirable effect, namely that it may result in less rent as a house, and more as a short stay or holiday home. Can the initiator explain again how he looks at this? Does he share this fear? About bill 35516 Temporary rent discount, I can be quite short. First of all, I have to say that the title of the bill is rather misleading, because the bill does not regulate the temporary rental discount, but the possibility of applying it after a temporary rental discount. I have just one question for the Minister. By amendment, the extended possibility until July 2021 for the renewal of rental contracts related to corona has been cycled into this law. Can the Minister explain whether this amendment still has the desired effect, given the expected date of entry into force of this law, and the expiry of the earlier legislation for what I call the "corona extension of temporary leases"? Law 35518 regulates several things. First, it adjusts the SGEI income limits. In short, the legislative proposal provides for an increase in income limits for families and a reduction in income limits for single people. These income limits are included in Article 10 (2) of the Implementing Law on rental accommodation. In a letter dated 6 November 2020, the Minister informed the House of Representatives that he would not lower the income limits for single-person households. However, an amendment to amend this in the text of the bill did not reach the House of Representatives. In reply to the questions of our group and of the PvdA, the Minister on the impact of not lowering the limit for singles replied: "The levels of the income limits for the allocation of the social housing of housing corporations, including the income limit for single-person households, are not laid down in the law, but in the Decision allowed institutions of housing 2015." How does this answer of the Minister relate to the text of the present legislative proposal, in which the income limits are indeed fixed? Does the text of the proposed Article 10 (2) of the Implementing Law allow rental prices to deviate from the amounts set out in the legal text by ministerial regulation? In fact, the legal text only talks about the possible indexation of these amounts under ministerial rules, not of adaptation. I would like a very clear answer from the Minister on this point, because this point is crucial for my group when assessing the legislative proposal. The second part of this bill concerns an adjustment of the income-dependent rent increase. My group does not, in principle, support the approach of crooked tenants through an income-dependent rent increase, partly because of the violation of the privacy of tenants. At the time of its introduction, the scheme was not for nothing called the "peep-up'. However, within the existing system, which applies the income-dependent rent increase, the present proposal is an improvement. Tenants with an income just above the income line are no longer affected by an additional rent increase, while the tenants of a social rental house with a high middle income or a high income are going to pay a little more. We can live well with this leveling, even if a small part of that high income is formed by an AOW benefit. The fact that the rent can never be higher than that allowed by the housing credit rating system is a necessary prerequisite. Finally. The draft law contains a scheme whereby very low rents of less than €300 for an independent home may be accelerated by a nominal amount of €25 per month. For low-income tenants this increase will be compensated by the rent surcharge and for tenants with a higher income a rent of €300 is not too high. The question is, however, what is the need for the adjustment, as housing corporations do not get anywhere with it because of the maximum rent increase and most tenants will be compensated by a higher rent surcharge. What is the reason for adding an additional rent increase option according to a completely new system to our rental price system? Are we bringing in something that can be used for rents that are no longer low? Please explain and hopefully reassure the Minister. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u5	I have one more question about the remark of'scrumbled living'. I hear GroenLinks here saying that they are not in principle in favour of tackling crooked living. Now it is in the Netherlands, especially in large cities, that people with maybe two, three, four live a modal income in social housing, so in subsidised housing for a very low amount. Can you explain again why GroenLinks is against dealing with those very wealthy people who are living crookedly in a social housing facility?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u6	What I have just said is that one of the main objections to this approach of skewing is the way it happens, in particular the transmission of data through the Tax Administration. In itself, we are in favour of taking measures to ensure that people pay a more appropriate rent and are encouraged to move to other homes, but they must be there and they are not there now. That is why we are also in favour of regulating the middle segment, which is just above that social rent threshold, so that they also receive prices that allow people who are wrongly sitting in social homes or who could pay more, to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u7	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u8	This is therefore a technical implementation: that the data are shared with the Tax Administration to check it. But is GroenLinks now fundamentally opposed to tackling crooked citizens? Because there are people with three, four, five times a modal income who live in a social housing unit. Are you in favour of dealing with these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u9	I'm not for it. I'm not too bad for dealing with people anyway. I am in favour of encouraging people to pay a rent that fits the quality of the home and their income. That may mean taking measures that encourage people to pay more or move to another home, but the way it was designed, we are not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today it is exactly nine months since I tabled a motion in this Chamber rejecting the tenancy policy of the Minister of Home Affairs and calling on the Minister to allow a temporary stop or substantial preventive measures of a similar nature. It is nice that the Minister van Wonen is on the floor with us today, and also our colleague Henk Nijboer from the House of Representatives. With them we are going to discuss in this Chamber three new legislative proposals on rental policy, including Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal, with which I congratulate him in advance. It is already quite a job to put forward an initiative proposal, but to get it through the House of Representatives unanimously is an even bigger job. That means good work has been done. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing these legislative proposals in the context of a more general assessment of the rental policy as such, also in order to assess whether and to what extent the Minister, after her rental policy was rejected nine months ago by this Chamber, has met the explicit desire of this Chamber and whether or not the relationship between government and Chamber has changed. This is a good time to draw up such an interim balance sheet, the day before the voters set up a new Lower House, after which it may form a new government. Among other things, that government will formulate a new rental and housing policy. That will also affect us here, indirectly, but unmistakably. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the best news. The Minister recently informed us by letter that she has set the maximum rent increase for the regulated rental sector to 0 per ministerial arrangement. This means that there will be no annual rent increase for all tenants in the social sector this year. The Minister called such a generic measure "uneffective" nine months ago, now she tells us that it contributes to the affordability of housing for tenants in this sector. In doing so, the Minister continues to make an important contribution to the appeal of this Chamber nine months ago. This makes my group and I assume a large part of this Chamber extremely happy. Let me add that I assume that today the Minister will confirm that she supports the proposal adopted unanimously by the House of Representatives on the maximisation of the rent increase in the free sector. Nine months ago, the Minister took the view that rents in this sector could increase with inflation plus 2.5%, and now she agrees with a maximum increase with inflation plus 1%. Here too, the Minister is taking a step in the right direction, and my group welcomes that. It remains to be seen that the temporary rental stop requested by this Chamber for this part of the rental sector is not yet realized. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there are any reasons why, partly because of the above average large risks for all tenants in corona time, a temporary rental stop is still possible for the tenants in the free sector. I assume that the initiator will have no objection to this, but of course I would also like to hear his opinion on this. In any case, I commend him for his successful initiative, by which he managed to get the Minister's initial plan off the table. I know that the initiator is of the opinion that a ceiling should be set in any case when it comes to rental prices. His present proposal does not yet provide for this and, if he manages to achieve an absolute maximisation of rental prices, I think that will have to be adjusted in due course. Am I getting that right? I'd like to get an explanation of that. Mr. Chairman. Earlier, this Chamber agreed to the Minister's proposal for a one-time rent reduction in the social sector for about a quarter of a million tenants. The Minister also put that proposal in its wording of the operative part of the Chamber's ruling on its rental policy, nine months ago. As I said, the Chamber supported that proposal, but also supported my motion calling on the Minister to examine how such a reduction might be possible for tenants in the free sector. I would like to hear from the Minister about the implementation of that adopted motion. If the Minister were to meet the wishes of this Chamber, she would make my group and I assume the vast majority of this Chamber even happier. Today, the Minister adds two other legislative proposals to her rental policy. Unfortunately, my group is much less pleased with these proposals. After all, the Minister's proposal for a temporary rental discount does not give additional rights to tenants, but only removes an obstacle for landlords, in this case housing corporations, to allow for a possible rent reduction. The bill may sound attractive at first hearing because it opens the door to a possible rent reduction, but brings with it an unexpected and extremely unpleasant rental catch-up effect, perhaps for many tenants. Unfortunately, proposals in the Lower House to soften that effect were rejected by the Minister and rejected by a majority of the House. Can I ask the Minister whether there might still be grounds for her to reconsider such a softening of the cost of catching up? Mr. Chairman. The Minister's proposal to change the rent increases and income limits in the Housing Act was originally partly unfair and partly imperfect. It was unfair because it lowered the limit above which a single-person household would no longer be eligible for a housing corporation's residence in the regular sector. That was a straight-up single sentence. It was also unfair because it removes the hitherto existing exception of the AOW from the income-dependent rent increase, without giving a proper and sound explanation. If the minister has it, I'd still like to hear it from her today. The additional rent increases for low cost housing also require further explanation. Mr. Chairman. The proposal was and remains incomplete because it raises the income threshold for multi-person households, but is insufficient to allow multi-person households who do not have a serious risk of housing market to be eligible for housing in the regulated sector. In the meantime, the Minister has withdrawn the reduction of the limit for single-person households. That is good news, but she has rejected the increase in the income threshold for multi-person households. My group deeply regrets that. The Minister says that a further increase, to around €55,000, one and a half times modal, would be contrary to EU rules on state aid to housing corporations, as two thirds of the population would then be entitled to a house in the regulated sector. That does seem a lot, but due to the shortage on the housing market, prices have gone through the roof. They can no longer be paid for a large part of the population. Can I ask the Minister to explain again why it excludes a large group of households who do not have a real alternative to suitable housing in the housing market from access to the regulated sector? Is it really afraid of intervention by Brussels, or is there any other reason to explain its reluctance? And can I also ask the Minister about the implementation of my colleague Sandra Beckerman's motion to have the Nibud investigate the financial situation of tenants in the free and social sector? Mr. Chairman. In short, my group welcomes the temporary stop for the social sector introduced by the Minister and the significant reduction in rent increases in the free sector to be achieved by the Nijboer initiative. But there is little joy about the new legislative proposals I have just discussed. The same goes for what happened last week in the House of Representatives. The former coalition parties helped the Koerhuis amendment, which allows the extension of temporary leases, to a majority, which we want to get rid of. Those temporary leases are a product of neoliberal thinking and lead to rent drive and greater uncertainty for tenants. May I ask the Minister what she thinks of this last rewind of neoliberal housing policy? In my view, it is difficult to bear in mind the housing proposals presented to the electorate by the various parties. Mr. Chairman. If my group makes a preliminary assessment of the steps taken by this Minister since the rejection of her rent policy by this Chamber nine months ago, our group notes that a lot of steps have been taken by the Minister late in the day. But there's still a lot going on. I have just spoken about the latter. Let me end positively by summing up the steps forward. There will finally be a generic rental stop for the 2.3 million tenants of a corporation house, as this Chamber asked. Thanks to Mr Nijboer's initiative, there will not be a stop in the free sector, which this Chamber asked for, but a firm generic restriction on the annual rent increase for the 1 million tenants in that sector. If you add up the substantial one-off rent reduction for a quarter of a million tenants of corporation homes and the possibility, at least for corporations, of temporary rent reduction as tenants, too much, then the conclusion may be that the minister is now happily making changes that she didn't see nine months ago, which led to a frontal collision with this Chamber. I call that a big profit for the tenants of the Netherlands. I congratulate the Minister for her willingness to change her policy in the direction desired by this Chamber. I would also like to congratulate colleagues in the House of Representatives for their perseverance in bringing the Minister to that end. Mr Nijboer tempted the Minister to introduce a considerably more lenient rent policy with regard to rents in the free sector. With her rent freeze, Mr Beckerman was able to convince the Minister for a long time that it would be wise to say yes to that proposal and that a 0% rent increase in that sector would be enough at least this year. That the corporations for the lost rent are compensated through the reduction of the BIK my group considers only reasonable, just as we find it only reasonable that the new cabinet will bear the landlord's tax and thereby significantly increase the investment space for housing corporations. Mr. Chairman. Nine months ago, I argued that as far as the rental policy was concerned, it really had to be changed, because the Minister was on a dead end. It seems that the clash between the Chamber and the government has transformed that change, which has led to a step-by-step adjustment of the rent policy. On the basis of the electoral programmes presented by the parties in recent times, it is reasonable that the new cabinet will take further significant steps to control the rents and not to hunt them down anymore, but perhaps even to reduce them in order to increase the affordability of rentals. Many parties have concluded that an unregulated housing market does not offer any comfort in providing everyone with a good and affordable home, which should be a fundamental human right. The realization seems to be that we must make housing a common task again, under the direction of a genuine Minister for Housing, who has sufficient resources to act. The abolition of the landlord's tax, once referred to as a temporary tax, which has become a brake on social housing, seems to be receiving broad support. Almost all parties recognise that the new Ministry of Housing will have to do everything in its power to build large-scale buildings and make existing houses more sustainable, thus reducing the cut in the housing supply and thus also the overall price increase. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares this analysis. In any case, I look forward to the reactions of both the initiator and the Minister to our questions and comments and those of the other groups. In the second term, I hope to be able to reach a more final judgment on the relationship between this Minister and this Chamber from today on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. This is a popular representative who has been vaccinated this weekend, of which I acknowledge. I hear someone say "congratulations." Yeah, you do when you're older. You'll have more rights and you'll get to it first. This is generally true for older people not at all in the Netherlands, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. I will start with the legislative proposals with the dossier numbers 35516 and 35518 and then I will come to the initiative of former colleague Nijboer. We have worked intensively on many dossiers. I congratulate him on this initiative. A number of questions from my group have not yet been answered in the note to the report on these two proposals. I repeat those questions. How often do elderly people move from a single-family home to a smaller, suitable home? To what extent will the rental discount be an incentive to do so if the discount is temporary and if the rental price is an important obstacle to moving? Why would the elderly take the step towards a house with a much higher rent with such poor prospects in terms of income? What more structural solutions do pensioners have at their disposal? Isn't the shortage of suitable housing a much bigger problem? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the law 35518. I want to focus on the position of the elderly. Our Dutch MP Van Otterloo has tabled an amendment (35518, no. 16) to delete the exemption from income-dependent rent in this proposal. Can the Minister explain once again, Mr Kox asked why the exception for AOW'ers has been lifted? We don't really understand any of that. Van Otterloo wanted this amendment to ensure that the exception continued to apply. As a rule, AOWs are no longer able to supplement their income. Indexation has also not taken place for 12 years. This would therefore mean that AOWs would have to spend an increasing proportion of their income, of their AOW and pension, on housing costs in a rented house. With Van Otterloo, my group feels that this is undesirable. It is wrong to assume that AOW's will be able to face an increase in income. The past is not a guarantee for the future, but as far as pensions are concerned, the past is a guarantee for the future. Pensions haven't been indexed for 12 years, I told you, and pensions will not be increased in the coming years. Also, the AOW is not stable, but only valued. This indexation is not due to the pension agreement either, because until the possible start of a new system in 2027, the scandalous accounting rules of the so-called new financial review framework of 2015 will continue to apply. As far as my group is concerned, it is a fact that pensions will be reduced by 10% to 15% in the transitional period until 2027 to a new system, if any. This is a financial framework for the future where the CDA in this Chamber voted with conviction with spokesperson Hoekstra at the end of 2014. He was right about that back then. I was there and saw this happening from the public gallery, as chairman of the elderly organisation KNVG, with 150,000 members. Last week, our Dutch MP Corrie van Brenk tabled an initiative bill to increase the calculation rate to 2% during the transition period, in order to avoid these large pension reductions and allow indexing. Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, we want to maintain the exception mentioned for AOW's. Unfortunately, the Van Otterloo amendment was rejected with the coalition's well-known engine block first. Another example of age discrimination. We urge the Minister to make this exception possible again by amending the law. Is she willing to do that? At the time when the person living in an SGEI dwelling is unable to live there because of this rule due to the level of his income, the possibility should be provided by housing corporations to provide suitable housing in the middle rental sector, i.e. the non-DAEB. This will help citizens with the gradual transition from SGEIs to non-DAEBs. It's like a tax bill, Nijboer! How does the government provide for a gradual transition and assistance? Which brings me to senior complexes, where several elderly people live together. It is necessary to do something about the maximum space available to also allocate to people with a slightly higher income than the norm, in order to strengthen social cohesion within the complex. If you concentrate only the lowest incomes among the elderly there, this means, according to the practice, that in the complex itself a more problematic situation arises in supporting each other. These complexes often run on mutual assistance. Then it is necessary to have a more mixed composition. In the written preparation in the Lower House, the question also played a role in whether the rent reduction, the temporary rent discount, could tempt older people to move to a new home. I'm afraid a temporary rent discount won't help. Many elderly people have lived in the same apartment for decades. You could say that they have benefited from the fact that they have remained seated, because as a result rent has been moderately increased in a number of years. Then when they go to a new place, they get less value for more money. There will then be a jump in rent, because landlords can ask for a new rental. This prevents a number of people from going to suitable senior housing. That jump is too big. We don't expect much of this temporary rental discount. We expect much more from an increase in the supply of homes. Building, building is by far the best solution to put an end to the distressing housing shortage after ten years of Rutte Cabinets. Above all, build many homes where older people like to live, because there is a huge need for them. Jan Latten made a convincing point of this last Friday. During the symposium of the Scientific Institute 50PLUS, I was allowed to discuss housing with him, as well as the AOW, pensions and purchasing power. We broadly agreed on these issues. According to Jan Latten, the need for suitable and cozy homes for the elderly, for the third generation, is much greater than that for young families which he thinks is too much about in politics. I will come back to that later in this Chamber, because it was an interesting speech by Latten. The purpose of the differentiation of the SGEI income limit is to increase the housing stock for multi-person households and to exclude single-person households from this limit. The reason to differentiate the border is that multi-person households have higher expenses than single-person households and therefore the rents for these houses do not fall within the income limit of the SGEIs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u14	I support much of Mr Van Rooijen's speech, but why is he saying that too much is being said about young families? It is precisely in the interests of young families that elderly people go to the cozy homes they want to find, because then they leave those old family homes for the families. According to the State architect who, I think, has the same figures as Jan Latten........................................................................................................................................................................................ Of course, they don't want to live in a meadow house far away from all amenities. They want to live in the urban area, on top of Albert Heijn, near amenities. So why are you standing up to the young people? It is in the interests of young people and older people that such housing should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u15	I find this an interesting question, which I do understand, because I recently, with the support of this entire First Chamber, with a motion adopted unanimously, arrived at an investigation into the need for senior housing. That motion stated that we wanted to do so, in particular because it promotes the flow of older people to smaller homes, creating new opportunities for start-ups and young families. That motion has been passed. The major first Elder Housing Monitor was published in January and the Minister comes together in May with a major action programme with VNG, Aedes, VWS and her ministry to take action by the municipalities. I just remembered Jan Latten, because he said something last Friday during that symposium of the Scientific Institute that struck me very much. He said: politics, and so do we, think that there should be homes for start-ups and young families and that they should be affordable homes, in the right places and not too far from work. We agree on that, even here in this room. But he also pointed out that for an increasing group of elderly people, which is growing from 3.3 million to 5 million people over the next ten to twenty years, suitable and cozy housing should be provided in what I call residential care complexes. That's what he's been paying attention to. He's actually saying that politics should focus much more on that. Then, of course, homes will be available for young people, start-ups and young families, because the elderly go to senior homes. But the apartments aren't here. In addition, he said that senior homes are being built but the wrong ones, namely uncomfortable block boxes with a few rooms where you have no social contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u16	Mr. Crone, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u17	I think you should say that we are both right. This is in the interest of young people who want to live in urban areas and also in villages, but not in new pasture areas where there are no facilities. Then it'll help a lot if we get more housing together. This can also often be stacked construction, because then there is less pressure per hectare and then there are already those facilities. Do not stand up to the young, because then you will also have the 50 miners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Van Rooijen, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u19	I regret that Mr Crone gives the impression that my group does not stand up for young people, in a speech in which we find each other clearly. It's en-and. I have to say that I was extremely disappointed by the motion adopted by a majority in this Chamber, and also by the coalition, within the framework of nitrogen, with the aim of stopping as farmers, and preferably looking at suitable housing in these places. They say: yes, that's about the seniors, the elderly, so that's what we're voting against. The rest of the coalition voted in favour. I find that regrettable, of which I am aware. Yes, Mr. Chairman, everything is political. In addition, I wonder whether, in view of these real alternatives and the shortage in the housing market, the discount on the landlord's tax on housing corporations can be increased. That will appeal to Mr Nijboer. For the sake of clarity, 50PLUS was and remains in favour of abolishing the landlord's tax. That will also be addressed by Mr Nijboer and Mr Crone and their party. How does the government foresee the feasibility of applying the wider allocation area? Is this by means of an income test? Is an annual test carried out to test the income and to achieve the gradual increase on the basis of this? I need to be careful about things with bonuses, incomes and income checks, but you know what I mean. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would once again like to congratulate my former colleague Nijboer from the House of Representatives on this initiative proposal. I speak from experience: initiatives are great jobs and monks' work for the employees, including his employees. Nijboer's initiative provides that rents can be increased to a maximum of three years with inflation plus 1%, with a number of exceptions. My group is wondering whether the housing rating system, the point system, should be extended to the free sector. There is a decreasing number of homes available in the social sector, making more and more people dependent on the middle sector. They also deserve a form of rent protection and a form of counter-force against speculation. I would like to draw attention to a certain group of older people. A number of older people rely on a rental house because of the sale of their home, while it is not possible to buy a property suitable for their age and limited physical possibilities. Then there are regular rent increases, and that while the pension does not rise. That is why we wholeheartedly support this initiative by Mr Nijboer. We await with interest the answers of the Minister and the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Van der Linden, on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. It's a crisis in the Dutch housing market. This year alone, in 2021, the housing shortage is 285,000 homes and this deficit is expected to reach 355,000 homes in 2023. House prices have risen twice as fast as modal income since 1970. The average new house increased this year to a price of €420,000 and the average starter can only borrow up to €255,000. It is also dramatic in the rental sector, on which we are discussing three laws today. Rental prices have increased by more than 26% in ten years. Young people often receive 50% of their income in rent, if they can already find a suitable rental house. It is good to consider the problems in the housing market, here in this chambre de réflexion, on a regular basis, especially when, like today, we deal with legislative proposals that affect the housing market. The current housing crisis is the result of years of mispolicy, and we are not just going to straighten it out. What is needed are great political choices, and I want to highlight at least two. First of all, the current policy choice for high immigration. Between 2015 and 2020, there were net 80,000 more to the Netherlands per year than they left. The total migration balance 2015-2020 was +500,000 people; a large proportion of them disadvantaged immigrants or asylum seekers, who are redistributed to municipalities as soon as possible from azc's political policy. There they are allocated, often with priority, a cheap social housing. There's no way to build up against these numbers, if that's what you'd want at all. It is a political policy choice, and a choice with a direct impact would therefore be significantly limiting the influx of disadvantaged migrants. And then a second policy choice: the current policy choice of high-end climate policy, which has led to new building prices. During the last period of government, the ban on natural gas was introduced, which resulted in the massive introduction of the expensive and uneconomic heat pump. Due to many sustainability requirements, the construction costs of new buildings have increased by almost 20% over the last ten years; a political measure with a direct impact on the housing market. So what we could do is stop this measure, stop the ban on gas from the table and build it affordable again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u22	There's a lot to respond to. I will not do all of that, but I would like to refer to the figures mentioned by Mr Van der Linden on immigration. I wonder where he gets them from, because in the numbers I know, that 80,000 is on average about gross immigration and the net is about half of them. And he says that a very large proportion of them are asylum seekers. I wonder whether Mr Van der Linden can also indicate what he thinks is the percentage of social housing allocated to asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u23	I don't think GroenLinks has the figures right here. These figures are just from the CBS. I double-checked them yesterday: 2015 65,000 migration balance positive; in the four years thereafter about 80,000, and in 2019 100,000. That is the net migration balance, in which more people come to the Netherlands than they leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u24	I'll check that out. And my second question, is the percentage of social housing that you think is allocated to asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u25	I am not prepared to do so, but if you do, I will be happy to inform you about it, and perhaps we can also ask the Minister what percentage that is. The number of people with asylum status currently in a social housing house is also useful information. I don't have that right now, but I'd be happy to look it up for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u26	Yes. In what I found, this was 7% in 2017, a year with a high allocation of asylum status, and it will be less afterwards. But I would also like to hear the latest figures from the Minister. Look, we pretend this is the problem or one of the biggest problems in the housing market. When it comes to these percentages, my question is: shouldn't you be a little more relative?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u27	Well, 7%... We also see this in the explanatory memorandum to the legislation: it concerns 2.2 million social housing; that is quite a lot. So what I am going to say here in the introduction, and then I will go to the legislative proposals themselves, is that there are two very large political choices that are really decisive in dealing with the crisis in the housing market, that one of them is restricting immigration, because that is very large numbers, and that is another: that those prices of those homes are going down by not having that expensive climate policy. These seem to me to be very effective policy choices; political choices, in which I believe change must take place. Or we will, of course, soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u28	Finally, Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u29	They are certainly political choices and your choice is not ours. Let me make one more point: we are not talking about the 2.2 million in terms of the 7% of the number of allocations, because that is not about the number of allocations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u30	You continue your argument, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. Major and decisive solutions to the current housing crisis are simple but politically loaded, as this debate on interruption also shows. They're asking for a major political change. Of course, we will know tomorrow or the day after tomorrow if that change of course is going to happen. Then there are the three legislative proposals we are discussing today. I can be brief about the Temporary Rental Discount Act: we will support it. Then there is the Nijboer initiative proposal which regulates rent increases in the free sector. They may rise to a maximum with inflation plus 1%. When I read the Elsevier this weekend, I had the impression that this bill had already been accepted, because in an interview, the Minister indicated that this bill was one of the so-called groundbreaking decisions that would have been taken in relation to the housing market; that is before this Chamber, the State General, made its opinion on it. Is this really just a ritual dance? The Minister also referred to this law in the same article as "unknown government intervention." We agree, because it certainly is. Nevertheless, my group believes that this intervention is justified in view of the situation on the housing market. Living asks for certainty. We live in a time when many tenants increasingly have less security about work and income. If, in this situation, the relationship between income and rental price is likely to get lost, then the government can correct it. The limit of inflation plus 1% is proportional, but I would like to ask the initiator another question. Housing values have increased significantly in recent years, regularly with double digits. That is much more than inflation plus 1%, but then we also have to look at how inflation is calculated. In calculations of various inflation rates, house price increases are not always taken into account. To what extent does the initiator agree with us that this law can create a long-term imbalance if the rent is no longer proportionate to the housing value? Are we not creating the skeptics of the distant future with today's crisis and this measure? And then a question to the Minister: would it not be reasonable and fair to include the increase in housing value in the calculation of inflation, if we follow this law? Finally, the amendment to rent increases and income limits Housing Act. Firstly, my group can follow the proposed differentiation in income that entitles to a social housing, with the income limit being reduced for single-person households and higher for multi-person households. The second part of this law is to provide more space for local customization in municipalities. We welcome that too, but we would like to hear from the Minister what the follow-up steps are on this point so that municipalities can get to work as soon as possible. So if this law is passed, what concrete steps are needed so that municipalities can get that customised work as quickly as possible in practice with housing corporations? Then there is the third point, the approach to skewed living. In doing so, we have looked at proportionality. Those who have an income well above the social rent threshold of €10,000 must pay a fairer rent faster. However, we would like to make two comments. Firstly, how real is it at this time of crisis that this will lead to a flow of social rent to the free market? Because there is just little supply and this procedure on crooked living is also limited to certain limits. Can the Minister explain why she thinks this expected flow is going to take place? Isn't this the worst time to do that? Secondly, if the flow is reached and the renters leave, then there are disadvantages. Then social cohesion in the neighbourhood could be affected, especially in conjunction with the annual high net immigration rates that I have just pointed out. How does the Minister take that into account? To sum up, our group thinks it is possible to accept the legislative proposals before us, but believes that a lot and much more is needed to solve the crisis in the housing market. Let's start with that on 18 March! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. Mr Van Hattem has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u33	Mr. Chairman. Following the adoption of motions by this Chamber last year to bring about a rent freeze, a temporary freeze on rent in both the social and the free sector, Minister Ollongren has repeatedly refused to carry out these motions in full. Eventually, a motion in the Lower House was needed to freeze the rents in the social sector for this year. But the free sector is still excluded. Now, even after a motion of censure, the Minister does not go any further than a little mess in the margins with the bill for a temporary rent discount. And instead of focusing on freezing rents or, as the PVV insists, reducing rents, she even comes up with a conflicting bill to allow rent increases in certain cases. It is scandalous how it not only passes the parliament but especially our tenants in the cold, who in recent years have faced rent increase on rent increase, with last year's highest rent increase in six years. In ten years of Rutte, rents in the social sector have risen by an average of 26% and in the free sector by 44%. The people affected by the bill by the rent increases are often unable to flow at all, because the housing policy of the Rutte cabinet is failing for them. In this country there are now 330,000 homes too few, including 80,000 social housing. And the dwellings that are available are priceless for many people. The Council of State also wonders where these tenants should be if the cabinet wants to drive them out of their homes with rent increases. What does the Minister want to use these rent increases for? To make the housing market more sustainable, so for making homes completely unnecessary and priceless without gas. Stop with that climate crap and give our tenants a lower rent instead. How could it have gotten this far? Last week in Elsevier, former chief demographer of the CBS Jan Latten...................................................................................................... He rightly raises the taboo for many parties in this Parliament about the link between immigration and housing shortage, that there is no identifiable political link between 'a permanent shortage of houses and the annual uncertainty about newcomers from abroad'. He also states: "Migration and population size are the key puzzle pieces for adequate housing planning." That's the problem. With Rutte's open border policy, mass immigration continues to keep the pressure on the housing market untenable. On average, there is an annual influx of 100,000 people from abroad, a city the size of Deventer or Delft. There's no way to build on that. For the social rental sector, the massive housing allocation to asylum seekers with a residence status, the status holders, is an additional burden. Over the past ten years, over 110,000 homes have been given away to status holders, while our own house seekers have been on waiting lists for years and those waiting lists are also getting longer and longer. Whole streets are given away to status holders. From a tenant from the small Brabant village of Nuland with 4,000 inhabitants I learned that out of the eight social rental homes in his street there were no less than three given away to status holders. And in some places that pressure is even greater. The addition of 32,500 affordable homes, which the Minister talks about with her housing impulse, is already fully absorbed within a year by the ongoing mass immigration. This mass immigration also pushes up house prices and thus also rent prices. And now the Minister comes up with a bill to allow further rent increases, especially for the crooked people, who have to pay an appropriate rent, and the single-person households. In the meantime, corporate homes are being made available to single men who have illegally entered Europe and come here after passing seven or eight safe countries for asylum. Such a single-person household is suddenly not a problem for this immigration-addicted cabinet, whereas it is the real crooked inhabitants. That is why it is also the highest time to stop at least completely the priority allocation of social housing to status holders. The bill also talks about local tailor-made housing assignments, but not a word about stopping prioritising status holders locally. Although it is no longer mandatory at national level, this is still being applied in municipal rules. Last week, in the Pauw election debate, Prime Minister Rutte, in debate with Geert Wilders, stated that priority should be given to status holders in housing assignments: "That is why I also think that we should get rid of the allocation of housing, not only in rural areas, but also in the municipality." It is clear that Rutte only comes forward with such obligatory election talk just before the elections. But the PVV wants to nail the head and therefore asks the minister: why didn't the cabinet arrange this earlier? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u34	I heard in between Mr Van Hattem's fierce speech also criticizing the proposal to allow crooked people to pay a more appropriate rent. A clarification: is the PVV for the rent increase for crooked residents or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u35	We're not for rent increases at all. We're in favour of rent reductions. Now there are again forms of rent increase being introduced. They are supposedly attributed to the deranged population category. But as I said, the real crooks are the asylum seekers. Those are the status holders who are allocated homes that should actually be for Dutch people. We'll have to work on that first. We should not be naming all kinds of categories here that are suddenly skewed on the basis of their income. That's the wrong priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u36	I have also argued that tackling immigration should indeed be a priority in the choices, but there is something remarkable going on here. In Utrecht and Amsterdam-centre, highly educated GreenLinks and D66-voters live well-earned. They sit for very little money in a subsidised social housing that could also go to the ordinary man or woman. Surely it is impossible for you to say: let it continue to be subsidised, cheaply living in the city centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u37	This is the effect of housing policy as it has been harnessed in many years. People have once been eligible for social housing on the basis of their income. So they got that place right. If they started earning more later, that is a development that arises, but to have to immediately expel people from their homes while there are homes going massively to status holders... Those people also have to go somewhere, so that also puts pressure on the housing market. It's not a real solution if you're gonna bet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u38	Mr Van der Linden, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u39	In that sense, this debate is enlightening because Mr Van Hattem is actually saying that we do not have to do anything about those highly educated far too crooked GroenLinksers and D66s in the inner cities; let them live crookedly. This is a striking approach, however much I agree with you that immigration should be the key issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u40	Mr. Van Hattem, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u41	I think it is a non-discussion about living crookedly as long as the problem with the status holders is not addressed. Mr. Chairman. As far as PVV is concerned, there are no houses going to status holders at all. In order to take a first step and take action, the PVV comes up with a motion on this aspect: no more priority for status holders in housing allocation by municipalities. Then we can work on it immediately, because for our tenants each day is longer waiting one too many. Finally, Mr President. Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal, for which I congratulate him, limits rent increases in the free sector. We can certainly support that. The law for the temporary rental discount is a drop in the ocean, but nevertheless better than nothing, so support. On the other hand, we cannot support the third bill on rent increases. Instead, come up with rent reductions. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned. I still have the motion here. If you'll allow me, I'd like to read it to you. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many municipalities still give priority to social housing to status holders;]] [[Whereas the national obligation to give priority to social housing to status holders has been abolished;]] [[Whereas house seekers are often on waiting lists for years, while status holders are given priority status in many municipalities;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to come forward with measures towards municipalities to stop the priority allocation of social housing to status holders altogether,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35518-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a pleasure to speak with this Minister today, and certainly with Mr Nijboer, because Mr Nijboer has made sure that I will return to this point and say that this Minister is going to have a fantastic finish, as far as I am concerned. A lot's happened. The minister has slowly started and has been a lot bothered by the VVD and others, but I will immediately indicate that she is going to make a huge finish, which is going to help the tenants and the housing market in general. Maybe she wasn't sure about that when she came here this morning, but there are still opportunities this last day before the election. The essence of the problem remains, of course, that tenants are still short every month, because the relationship between rent and income is completely out of control. Last week, all the studies showed that, including the Nibud. 800,000 people, a quarter of the tenants, have problems every month. Even for people with the lowest rents, for example €400, it doesn't make much difference if they get a bit more income or a lower rent, because all this is immediately skimmed by the rent surcharge. The Nibud therefore advocates not only adjusting the rents, but certainly introducing a higher minimum wage, because that moderate rent policy alone is not enough. That is the symbol of a social housing policy which is actually failing at the moment. The market has really won at the moment, because whoever has the market power wins. That's how the market works. Whoever's weaker doesn't have an affordable home. I also strongly appeal to the coalition parties, because the market is now working far too well. If you have a house as a landlord or seller, you can pay the price yourself. That's how markets work without a strong market master. But if you have a normal income, you can forget about it without parents' support or overvalue to buy a house. And tenants are at the mercy of the government. We used to say, "Charitas of church and state." You get a supplement if you're lucky, regardless of the implementation problems. That is the red line: a sacred belief in the fiction of market operation. Because the market would still ensure an optimal price-quality ratio, and then people can choose for the best there is. The same market ideology has this coalition for care, for childcare and for rents. The market ensures the optimum price-quality ratio, and then citizens have nothing to worry about. It's like you're in a TV store, because you can actually choose between 50 devices of all kinds and sizes and you can decide for yourself: I do it or I don't do it. But of course that is not true in these sectors. First of all, the supply side situation is already: for my house ten buyers, 100 buyers, 80. For my landlord's house: if you don't want to, I'll get another tenant. That is the supply side, but also on the demand side this is not a normal market, because there are high transaction costs associated with relocations. You don't just switch, regardless of whether you're getting too far from your job, your education and other facilities. So transaction costs here also always limit the free market effect. Of course, this is not new in itself. That is why the Netherlands traditionally has a beautiful protected cooperative sector. But it has now been cut off by the landlord levy and a ban on building middle-rent by the market test, which has been relaxed but still exists. Fortunately, the PvdA has come back to this policy and has been advocating the abolition of the landlord's tax for four years now, because that was a crisis measure. That's in all the counter-budgets of the Labour Party. And fortunately, a lot of parties do that, except for the VVD. Let's hope they do after tomorrow. The VVD does write in its programme the incredible sentence: 'Municipalities, market and corporations cannot do it. The government must intervene hard." I quote it by heart, but I am going to repeat it here for four more years, every day, to Mr Eric van der Burg. Of all parties, the VVD writes the hardest sentences in its program. All parties are still trying to do a little nuanced about market and government. At the VVD everything is loose, until today nothing takes away from the market in the election program. So I'm afraid it's not gonna happen again tomorrow. Warranties only exist on vacuum cleaners, chairman. The result is that the Minister is now looking at an inheritance of four lost years. Again, the finish is going to be fantastic, but it's been four lost years, because it's also her legacy. She had to bow down with the entire coalition for this policy, led by the VVD. There will soon be a very sharp example of this. She's taken steps, but not always heartfelt. Usually against the will of the coalition, because she even needed the support of the Labour Party and GroenLinks for the agreement in the autumn. That is a good agreement: extra money for the construction impulse and the removal of, for example, the single penalty. But the new coalition didn't want to get rid of the market fiction anyway. We are now in this market situation and we now have three draft laws, which I shall go into in turn, which will save a little bit of what is to be saved. Is it sticking patches or is it a fundamentally significant market? Mr. Chairman. First of all... I thought: I'm going to compliment Mr Nijboer, of course, but people are going to say, "White duck, you're also from that party." So I join with all the compliments from Mr Kox, who spoke so fantasticly about Mr Nijboer. If GroenLinks... sorry, if the SP is positive about the Labour Party, then we do something wrong, but in this case not at all. So, Mr Kox, thank you very much, you are absolutely right: it is always hard for a Member of Parliament to file an initiative law and get it through the Chamber unanimously. If only the Kox motion had succeeded then, unanimously. But in any case, this happened after the in vain attempts of the cabinet to get the cabinet on that line. Because, of course, the House of Representatives has long followed the line that the cabinet has to take care of this. The royal road is, of course, not that a Member of Parliament does this, but that the government does so. Anyway, don't worry, because it's gonna be okay now: there's gonna be regulation for private rental in the middle segment. And that is a very fundamental breakthrough; there will be market correction outside the protected area. We very much welcome this, because many ordinary people with ordinary incomes who are not in the SGEI sector, the protected sector, cannot find a home because there are far too few homes there. Either the income limit is too low for them, which means they can't get into the corporation sector, or they have to pay huge rents. I have said it myself in all these debates on the Kox motion: it is not just about the corporation sector, the protected sector, but also about the tenant who is above it. However, we still have questions, because it is in itself an isolated measure that only allows rents in the free sector to rise by no more than inflation plus 1% for three years. That's fine, but it doesn't provide protection for the period after that. So there will be an evaluation in two and a half years. It would help 80,000 tenants; that's really great. But there is still no underlying point system or any other objective rental valuation, because the existing one only applies to rents up to €750. And it also means that rentals for newcomers can still be freely determined on the market. And those powers still determine that the rents are high. Also the incumbent tenants cannot yet call for a better adjustment of the actual underlying rent. I also put a question to Mr Nijboer, but certainly also to the Minister. Should there not be a necessary link, namely a form of a rental valuation? Is the Minister far enough with the preparatory work for further decision-making on this point? And how does it view the option of a rental permit, whether or not it is aimed at certain neighbourhoods? Such a permit could also set a certain limit, especially where investors are now buying large-scale houses to rent out. Mr. Chairman. All in all, my group, of course, is overjoyed by the great advantage and by this initiative law, and by the fact that it has been supported so widely. It is an important correction to market imbalances in the market. Mr. Chairman. The next point is the freezing of rents. How wonderful is it that, after such a rollercoaster, the Minister even overtakes Mr Nijboer on the left. Because it's zero now, instead of inflation plus 1%. So really: the Minister's finish is fantastic. Mr Nijboer also agrees that this is happening; no mistake about that. At this rollercoaster many motions on rent freezing have been adopted in the Lower House. I read somewhere that it was even eleven. But the minister wasn't allowed to carry them out. Next, the entire opposition came in the Lower House, but also here in the Upper Chamber, to face the coalition. We thought this was a necessary step which was worth supporting, especially in this difficult corona time. But then the Minister had to reject all these motions and even defy a motion of censure, which is already unique. And it's amazing that suddenly, just before the election recess, I see Mr Van der Burg of the VVD nodding all of a sudden the VVD went around and said: let's just freeze the rent for a year. This is a big surprise or even anger from the CDA and the Christian Union, who had already wanted it. It's really mean political policy if you don't discuss that openly with your coalition partners and then catch up with them all on the left? Anyway, the result is good, because it's going to happen now. However, I would like a response from the Minister. Don't you feel a little shirty because you've had to face all this in the Lower House and in the Upper House? I say again: you have been granted the opportunity to collect all this on the finish line with one note, but is this not a wonderful experience and did you not deserve that support earlier? And has the VVD apologized yet? I am going to ask Mr Van der Burg in an interruption if he does not come back to that himself in his first term. 'Cause that's not how you treat each other, is it? Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is important that this bill should simply pass through, but I will come to the cover. Something wonderful is going on here too. Of course, there was no cover at all in the first letter. What cabinet has ever submitted a proposal, a decision, to the Chamber without cover? Even in the long time I have been in the Lower House, I should never have. And it's not just a few million, it's 200 million. My first question is: is it now covered, and is it structural? After all, this is a structural freeze, because it does not come back after a year. I have seen that Mr Nijboer has also helped you with a motion that has been passed, about 200 million coverage from the BIK funds. Well, we were already against that BIK, so that's fine. But does the VVD now agree that structural BIK funds or other forms of relief will go off? The VVD is in charge here, you know that, so I'd like to know. You have supported an uncovered proposal. The VVD has never done that before. Where's Salmon? Where's the salmon standard on uncovered motion? If Salmon found something false, it was that you submitted a proposal that wasn't covered. I find it scandalous that the Minister should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u43	Mr Crone had already noticed that I was complimentary towards his party colleague but today mostly defender of a proposal from the House of Representatives. I notice that Mr Crone is now so acidic against the VVD at a time when the VVD is finally doing something good! The VVD ensured that my colleague Beckerman's motion was finally adopted in the Lower House. Is that a reason to be bitter about that, or should we, as good Catholics, count our blessings and say "fine, you are on the right path"? Maybe later we can convince the VVD here in this house to take some other steps that are in line with this. As you know, the motion adopted here refers to a rental stop for all residences. We now have a rental stop for social housing, but we also have that other part, which you also love very much. Wouldn't it be much nicer to give all possible compliments in the direction of the VVD so that we can table a motion in the second term and get the support of the VVD? Isn't that more effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u44	I am not so convinced that the compliments to the VVD are so justified. These are just as good moves then. Unpredictable; is that also unreliable? 'Cause what did they file last week? Mr Koerhuis has tabled an amendment aimed at further increasing rent liberalisation. Now you can sign a temporary lease for two years. That may be for three years, without minimum protection. I am very surprised at that. That proposal is liberalisation again. People can simply be thrown out after three years, so don't build up a good rental career, have to go back to another school with the kids, socially dramatic, but can also get an extra rent increase every three years. If you don't, someone's gonna tell you to get out. So I am not as enthusiastic as Mr Rutte and Mrs Marijnissen, who are so in love with each other on television. Don't let the VVD get to you. Count it on your fingers, because this is a dramatic proposal. No minimum duration, but longer temporary contracts, no more rent protection. What's the SP gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u45	It is not known, but I am fairly well informed about how the summit of my party is acting, but I was not yet aware of a love relationship between the Prime Minister and my group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u46	I meant politically-platonic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u47	No, Mr Kox has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u48	Rutte can only get better if he has more contacts with SP'ers. But maybe we can make a deal. I fully agree with Mr Crone that the support for the Koerhuis amendment in the House of Representatives really is a mistake. If we now know that the Labour Party is tabling a second-term motion on this matter, I shall table a motion in second-term that we should also extend the rent freeze to the free sector. Then we look at colleague Van der Burg in both cases and say: there is so much wisdom in your party right now; support both motions. That would be very nice! Is that a good deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u49	I very much agree that Mr Rutte would be better off if he listened more to the SP, but I was afraid that the SP was going to listen too much to the VVD, because you were so excited about the VVD. But I'm sure that's not gonna happen, is it? You keep your back straight. I'd be happy to accept your invitation. I'd thought about it a little bit, of course. That Koerhuis amendment was not only adopted by the VVD, but also by D66 and the CDA. The PVV, we, you, 50PLUS have all voted against the Koerhuis amendment. If they vote in favour of a motion from me, they also support the Minister, because she is betraying the Koerhuis amendment. I will also ask that in the event of interruption to CDA, D66 and Christian Union, because their election programme also states: less temporary leases. So I think they'll back that motion of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u50	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u51	I'll prepare it with you and anyone who wants it. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr President, by asking the Minister why she did not recommend the amendment, because that means that it was not in the coalition agreement. So they have their hands free.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u52	Mr. Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u53	Mr President, I think that is very good. I will be happy to support Mr Crone's motion, and hopefully so will the VVD. And hopefully that will also happen with my motion on a rental stop, including for the free sector. But just to be clear: if the VVD is politically moving in our direction, then we do not say "go away"; then we say "come here, Our Lord has created everyone, also good liberals." So if the good liberals come our way, we are only happy with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u55	I couldn't agree more. I am very lovingly trying to convince the VVD to let go of the Courhuis amendment, and to give the Minister the space to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u56	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u57	Mr. Chairman. This was an interlude on the Koerhuis amendment. I conclude at that point; that also saves time. I really hope that the majority of the parties here will decide not to liberalise the market further by doing temporary leases for three years. I would ask the Minister's views on this and the scope for at least not to table that bill. to promote the introduction of this article of law. That is a technical question, so that I can formulate the motion better. Can this part of those temporary leases of two to three years be suspended through an AMvB, so that the rest of the law can proceed? We're gonna deal with that law soon, so I'm gonna wait and see. I'd like an answer to that today. Mr. Chairman. The final point is the income limit in the Housing Act and the additional possibilities for rent increases. For the sake of clarity, I agree with Mrs De Boer's questions. We have the same dilemma: high income limits for families are attractive. We need more homes, but we also give that income group a house. Here too, Mr Nijboer, together with GroenLinks, said that the Minister took out the single penalty. That is therefore the sixth point on which the Minister has done well with the PvdA and GroenLinks. But why are sour and sweet now in one law? The other side, like the flow levy, is also covered by this law. The Council of State has already said that this should actually be done in two laws, because it is two measures, acidic and sweet, which have nothing to do with each other, neither in terms of coverage nor otherwise. In this way, our group, depending on the Minister's answer, is faced with the dilemma that, if we support one, a high income limit, we are taking the other, namely a flow-promoting measure. We are somewhat nuanced in that, because it is not in itself illogical that people who earn a high income in a housing corporation house pay a little more, without necessarily having to get out. I believe Van der Linde asked a question about that. That's what we're waiting for the Minister's answer to. Mr. Chairman. I conclude my speech with the hopeful statement that the Minister can make a huge finish. I have already mentioned six points on which she has not only listened to the VVD, but in particular to Mr Nijboer. It concerns his own initiative law, the Autumn Agreement, the single penalty, the rent freeze and perhaps the Minister also listens to my modest opinion on the extension of the contract for two or three years. I look forward to the answer in the first term and hope that this minister will make a fantastic finish, in the interests of the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u58	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Rietkerk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman. In addition to the crisis in the purchasing sector, the housing crisis in the rental sector is also enormous. Affordable rentals are often no longer available, especially in the cities. The shortage of affordable housing. Others have also talked about this.. has led to sky high prices of residential properties on the one hand and years of waiting lists for a rental house on the other hand. Many cities are priceless for young families and middle incomes and in smaller municipalities too little space is now available for new construction and, unfortunately, young people are moving away. The reason is painfully simple: faith in the market was too great. This has already been mentioned in previous debates, by several people in this Chamber. For investors, building more expensive properties or building a business site is more lucrative than building housing for the rental sector or affordable homes for families. In addition, housing corporations have become increasingly limited in their social tasks and construction rules and procedures have become increasingly complex and time-consuming. The landlord's tax is not going to help her, a monstrosity of VVD and PvdA. As a result, other challenges remain: sustainability, renovation and transformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u60	You will find it a monstrosity of the Labour Party and the VVD. It was a crisis measure. In those days, Buma wanted to make much more cuts. For four years in counter-budgets... I have to take off my mouth cap. I always put it on the wrong way. I've been doing it wrong for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u61	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u62	In counter-budgets, the landlord levy is always totally or partially deleted, but your group has always voted against it. You make tough motions about a minister of housing and more money for housing, but you do nothing, except renew the temporary leases. Who's been in power here for the last four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u63	I can imagine a decision being made, because you want to be trustworthy. The VVD and the PvdA have made a deal to convert structuralally 2 billion?2 billion, mind you?, so that the housing corporations could not do the business needed for the rental sector, such as sustainability. That's the point I marked. That's a freak. I'll come back to that later. Then there is the question of why that has not changed in the past four years. My colleague in the Lower House, Ronnes, has made a number of proposals. Fortunately, the first proposals have been temporarily accepted. We will see if we can make a fresh effort in the negotiations to remove the landlord's tax in the coming period, but we need other parties to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u64	But if you had done that two years ago, we wouldn't have had a dip in housing next year. Housing production collapses because no one has the assurance that you will reduce it after the elections, regardless of the outcome. You have had at least two years to reduce the landlord's tax, even temporarily, for a few years. You didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u65	No, but we would have lowered it if the PvdA hadn't come to the stupid idea of organizing a 2 billion landlord levy with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u66	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u67	The CDA Group wants housing corporations, as real social enterprises, to regain the space to build affordable buildings, especially for the middle class. Housing corporations should also be able to invest in the social viability of neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and villages. The CDA is strongly in favour of giving that space to corporations and giving them back the investment power they used to have. In addition, it is necessary to work on the flow of housing markets, so that too large single-family homes become available to young families. The proposals, a temporary rental discount and a change in the rent possibilities and income limits in the Housing Act can, in our opinion, contribute to this flow. The group of the CDA also appreciates the efforts of initiator Nijboer (Nijboer), who also congratulates us on an initiative law to resolve the problem of rent increases. The CDA has long been in favour of limiting rents, so there are affordable rentals in the free sector. In 2018 the Dutch MPs Ronnes of the CDA I mentioned him just now and Van Eijs of the D66 Group have already tabled a motion on an emergency button that can counter exorbitant rent increases. That is why the CDA Group also supports initiator Nijboer, who has substantially strengthened Minister Ollongren's plans. That has our support. The CDA Group considers it a core task of corporations to house those for whom this is virtually impossible. This core task has been explained in recent years as if it were only people with a small scholarship. Unfortunately, due to the current housing shortage, it has become almost impossible for middle income to find an affordable home. The CDA Group therefore believes that corporations should start housing these middle groups again, because the market has left that very clearly behind in recent years. That is why the CDA Group supports the extension of these income limits. However, this does not mean that we should not look at the flow and that it should not be promoted for those who really make too much money. The other groups have also indicated this. I am surprised that the PVV Group, which calls itself social after all, does not want to tempt the people who really make too much money, the crooked people, to move on. For certain rentals we need both the investors, the free sector and the housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u68	I am more surprised that the CDA is still not doing anything to put an end to the massive allocation of residences to status holders entering the country. They're supposed to be staying here temporarily, but they're getting a social rental right away. Isn't that a much bigger and much more serious form of crooked living?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u69	The crooked people who would have to move to a suitable home because of a much too high income are also a priority for the CDA. When it comes to the crooked people you mean, I am also in favour of equal rights for start-ups in the social rental market and status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u70	With regard to too high incomes, all kinds of housing projects are supported at the same time, including by the CDA. Especially in the big cities, very strong inner city buildings are built on homes where people start living as starters. Then there's this compulsion to flow through, but can't it be that people are just happy in the place where they live, independent of their income? Isn't that factor relevant, too? Or does the CDA say we should stop building those kind of popular places?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u71	The CDA is for building, building, building, not only in those places, but also in other places. We are also in favour of abolishing quotas in some regions. That's far too restrictive, too. When there are more houses, that means that the flow can increase and that those crooked people need to move, because that is simply not social.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u72	Finally, about those crooked people who should be moving. Again, the PVV doesn't want to chase anyone out of their apartment, nor does their rental house. But where would these tenants go? There's a big shortage of homes. If there is no affordable home available elsewhere, people will still live in that place. This is often also a place where we feel comfortable. That choice is up to people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u73	Mr Rietkerk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u74	That choice is up to people themselves, but we do believe that the broadest should bear the heavy burden. People who have far too high incomes should move, as far as we are concerned, so that there is room for others who are entitled to a rental house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u75	It's nice to hear that colleague Van Hattem doesn't want to chase anyone out of his house, except people who have come here from outside. Well, I'm sorry about that, but who knows? Mr Rietkerk welcomes a number of steps taken in the rental and housing policy. I think it is better not to talk about the pot and the kettle that are blaming each other for seeing black, but I would like to ask Mr Rietkerk whether the CDA is now happy that the rents in the social sector are frozen by the Minister, by ministerial decision. You were against it, but are you happy with it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u76	If your question is whether we agree to moderate this for the entire rental market for social housing, then I say: we are in favour of moderation, but we are not in favour of going back, as the SP Group has proposed for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u77	My question was whether the CDA now, considering everything, agrees with the Minister's decision to freeze the rents in the social sector this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u78	When it comes to short-term measures, we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u79	Mr. Kox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u80	That's good, because that's in line with the motion that was passed here. But the other part of that motion concerned the free sector. Can I ask Mr Rietkerk whether he could look generously at a proposal to do so temporarily for the free sector as well? Can we also count on the support of Mr Rietkerk when we say that one part is now well done, temporarily; can we do so temporarily for the free sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u81	Mr Rietkerk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u82	We are not in favour of that 0%. I'll tell you why later. We are in favour of Mr Nijboer's proposal to use plus 1% for investors temporarily for the next three years. We therefore support Mr Nijboer's initiative on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u83	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u84	You're in favour of a temporary lease stop in the social sector, but not in the free sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u85	No, I'll tell you why. Because the sustainability goals, the renovation and the transformation, do not come off the ground. We, as CDA, have those ambitions too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u86	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u87	As I said to Mr Kox, for certain rentals we need both investors, the free sector and housing corporations. The CDA wants to get rid of the landlord's tax. I just reported that. Then the corporations can build more and the mid-segment landlords get closer together. We also need investors and private and institutional investors. They must contribute to the new construction. The IVB states that all its members would act within the objective of the proposed initiative. A letter has also been written about it and a publication has been published about it. Could Mr Nijboer, and perhaps the Minister, indicate whether that is the case? How does the initiator see this and how does the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u88	Mr Crone had a short interruption, I understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u89	I understand that in the initiative proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u90	Mr President, time is still running, and I will not be able to do so. That was the same thing. I'll be done in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u91	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u92	I understand that the initiative proposal states that the rent adjustment can take place if there is evidence of improvements in housing, including sustainability. You didn't bring that? Because then it's good to do that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u93	We also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u94	Yes, but you said, in response to Mr Kox's interruption, not in the private sector as a whole. If this is an exception, housing improvement and sustainability, then is any kind of freezing desirable in this tight housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u95	Yeah, because I don't think it's gonna get off the ground on a macro-economic level. I think we need that volume to make it more sustainable. I will end with a question about the sustainability of the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u96	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u97	As far as the CDA is concerned, it is a good thing that the group of people eligible for social housing is being increased for families, as I mentioned earlier. In particular, start-ups, older people and families with incomes just above the income line are eligible for affordable housing. However, the underlying problem remains. On the market, families are currently at the mercy of bizarre rental prices. Is the Minister prepared to take another critical look at the borders, perhaps in view of the dossiers being prepared for formation? In view of the desirability of flowing into the housing market, attention should also be paid to policies relating to destabilizers. We just talked about that. The members of the CDA Group asked the government to reflect its implementation effects. The CDA Group can live well with the income-dependent rent increase proposed in this bill, but reiterates the importance of flow and considers it desirable that it should be promoted for those who really earn far too much. I was just explaining that. Furthermore, the CDA Group would like to draw attention to the issue of natural gas-free housing and, more specifically, social housing. Recently, research carried out by Nieuwsuur, among others, showed that the agreements in the Climate Agreement, in which housing corporations, construction companies and energy suppliers have agreed to release 100,000 rental homes by 2022, are not feasible. The implementation of the Treaty on European Union, which we are discussing in this Chamber, is proving too complex and not enough systematic. Aedes indicates that in a number of cases sustainability does not prove profitable, despite State subsidies. Even with higher rents, Aedes does not expect to recoup that investment. The CDA Group notes that in response to questions from the Lower House, the initiator states that the initiative proposal should not constitute an obstacle to the achievement of the agreement under the Climate Agreement. Does the initiator, I am now asking him, expect that the derogation from his own initiative proposal should be used to achieve the natural gas-free objective? If so, does the initiator expect this to undermine the objectives of his own initiative proposal? I'd like a response from the initiator and from the minister. Finally. It is essential to build, build and build sufficient rental homes. Does the initiator agree that the so-called quotas, which his party strongly supports, should be released in the region in order to build adequate housing? This brings, in our view, the ambitions regarding affordable sustainable housing closer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u98	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u99	According to the bill, the increase in rent intended by the bill to deal with the so-called skews is intended, among other things, to make the housing market more sustainable, including the far too expensive removal of gas from these homes. How does the CDA view the use of this money for another, wrong impulse in the housing market, namely making the housing market far too expensive through these measures to make homes gas-free? Isn't that just putting the horse behind the cart?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u100	The CDA is for the sustainability measures that work and are feasible. In my contribution to the initiator and the Minister, I said that we do not believe that the natural gas-free rental homes are feasible. I am curious to hear the response of the initiator and the Minister. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u101	Thank you. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a compliment to Henk Nijboer. It is really a lot of work to get such a proposal here and then again, hopefully, next week with a happy ending. Besides, you've been very active in this file for the past four years. That's worth a compliment, too. I would add that it was a completely different sound from the previous four years. Anyway, that might be a bit more party-political comment. Mr. Chairman. There are now several proposals here which are in fact complementary to the policy pursued by the Minister in recent years. Especially during the corona crisis, she tried to protect people from excessive rent increases or removals. This Chamber wanted a lot more generic policy. In that respect, the Minister was between two fires: between what the Lower House wanted and what the Upper House wanted. But now there are a number of proposals. One: the social hires are frozen and wonderfully paid out of the BIK. I do have a question about that. It was, of course, a wonderful political game, not of the highest level. Is there release in the BIK next year or is that release there this year, because the payout has not yet started at all? I'd like a reaction to that. Then there's Nijboer's proposal. Free market rents are maximized: inflation plus 1% for three years. Temporary rental discounts - a proposal from the Minister; a nice cooperation between opposition and government - are possible as well as customization by corporations. The income limits are raised to help more middle income to get a good home. There is also a further approach to crooked housing. Now living crooked is a tricky point. Yesterday I heard an example of two young people, starters living crookedly: one in The Hague and one in Rotterdam. They want to live together and they try to buy a terraced house in The Hague that is for sale for €500,000. Unseen, they offer more than that $500,000. They actually go to the limit of what they can offer and the broker says: no, you have to offer a lot more to come and see. That's how crazy the market is at the moment. Also in the rental market people pay between 40% and 50% of their income in rent. In short, the market is completely stalled and anyone who expected the liberalisation of the market, which the previous cabinet has also been involved in, has come home from a cold carnival. We are now almost all pleading again for a new ministry, focused on cohesion within and grasping this housing market. This concerns coherence in RO policy and coherence to bring together economy, housing, nature and sustainability. The Ministry has to go back. But a limitation is the landlord's tax. The Minister has now reduced it twice, but there is still a phenomenal amount open. That is, of course, a point for all those who will be participating in the negotiations. If there is still about 1.5 billion in structural terms, there is still something to be done. D66 calls for this amount to be allocated to a fund from which the corporations can build and from which the corporations can also make housing more sustainable. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she looks at that. By the way, it is also a compliment to the cabinet that it managed to build a record number of new houses in 2019, for example. The nitrogen crisis came in between, causing the building volumes to fall again, but it can be done; 2019 has shown this. Last week we had the nitrogen debate here. I am not quite sure that it will not be difficult again to reach those volumes. A number of infrastructure projects are already being stopped. Buying out and buying out the peak chargers must now be done to reach enough volume to keep building. Then a question to the Minister. The first tranche of the housing impulse has now been provided. 60% is for lower incomes and middle incomes. When is the second instalment due and how does it view it? Mr. Chairman. Then Henk Nijboer's initiative proposal. An intervention in the free rental sector is in itself an intervention on property rights. There must be very good reasons for this; the Council of State is talking about it. We think there are. European case law shows that what he proposes can be done. It's a temporary arrangement for three years. By the way, it is not so easy to get rid of temporary arrangements again, because then what are the effects? You also sometimes see that temporary arrangements become final arrangements. I would like a response from him on that. The scheme serves the general interest. The scheme has exceptions, for example for sustainability and government measures, as well as a transitional right. So it's just a good setup. Our concern is how to deal with short-term contracts in the free sector. Isn't this law very much promoting them? I'd like a response from Henk Nijboer. To be honest, I expected that the bill would also include a regulation of the starting rents, but you did not. Could you reflect on why that didn't happen? I would also like to hear from the Minister how she views it. Many landlords in the free sector also limit themselves when it comes to the rent increase, but not all of them. We all have concerns about the problem that rents are rising far too heavily there and that there are other effects, such as the large-scale buying-up of houses. We also have concerns in the cities where there is a lot of student accommodation, about the activities of the so-called cottage milkers. B and W Groningen have developed an approach to this, which I think Mr Nijboer also knows about. This Groningen approach was also discussed in the House of Representatives. In the case of malicious cottage milkers, not only permits are granted, but you can take them again. The Minister would like to look at how you could deal with that nationwide. We think it is extremely good that you are getting a better grip on that. In short, we support all these proposals. They are in line with what we said earlier, but they are far from solving the problems in the housing market. There are still major steps to be taken. We would like to await the response of the Minister and the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u103	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u104	I thank Mr Pijlman, because he has given a nice analysis, which I think is quite right: more buying up rentals. And he asks Mr Nijboer: why do you not have rent regulation on the level of prices? How do you or your party explain voting for temporary leases last week? 'Cause they're in favor of the landlords. So they're going to buy up houses now and rent them temporarily for three years instead of two years, and then they can raise the rent every time. That's contrary to your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u105	Well, right... Look, that's an assessment you're making. The temporary leases, is that a contribution to making it possible to give people a home even longer in this crisis, or does it have a lot of disadvantages, as you argue? And I see, frankly, those many disadvantages, too. So I'm gonna wait for the discussion. You have already announced that you will table a motion on this matter. I would like to say to Mr Kox that I have always said this in response to Mr Kox that we do not like the fact that this Chamber repeats the same debate fourteen days after the House of Representatives has spoken, possibly with a different outcome. It is possible, but the political mandate is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u106	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u107	Yes. Since Mr Pechtold's autumn agreements, the First Chamber is no longer important, because it arranged everything from the Lower House to your group, so here too. But let's not be opportunistic about that. We're talking about tenants here. Of course, we are going to deal with that law, but let us send a signal to this minister that she was right: 'It was not in the coalition agreement; I will discourage this amendment and I will ensure that none of that happens'. And let's at least wait and see the investigation that's been promised to evaluate it. Because your speech started with: we thought liberalisation would help, but it didn't help... Well, if anything doesn't help, then it's temporary leases, making the landlords... You have given the examples!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u108	Do you have another question, Mr Crone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u109	Yeah, or we're waiting for that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u110	You begin to repeat yourself now. I understand your arguments, I said. I would also like to hear the Minister's reaction, and then we will consider it. But you will also have to understand that this Chamber should not put itself in a position that it always repeats the discussions. We have had this before, and we find it extremely unfortunate. We do not have the political mandate here, but we will look very closely at that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u111	Of course, we are still going to talk about the bill for these temporary leases. I have another question. Mr Pijlman began his speech with the Minister's praise for her policy, and then he referred in particular to the tailor-made work she has done. He concludes his speech by saying that there is still a great deal of structural need to be done on "people's housing" in order to use that word. Then I ask a little reflection, because that customization was of course a very large part of corona-related. If you look back on the past period, do you think that there has been a structural effort to tackle this housing crisis, and would you not have preferred to have a legislative proposal on the regulation of the free sector before us today, and that greater steps would have been taken in that protection? Because it sounds a bit like: there has been customization done and we are very happy about that, and we are now going to start with the big structural steps. But now it's the end of the cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u112	I can't agree with this summary. I have just argued that I found the contradiction between what the cabinet did and what Kox asked for, for example, much less than it seemed. The cabinet was committed to customization and here it was asked for generic measures, and eventually the House of Representatives took the crisis for a very long time, of course, now also opted for generic measures. I praised the Minister for the fact that in 2019 the construction volume was very beautiful. We should be aware of that, because building, building, building, that is the solution to this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u113	I understand. That's part of the solution, as well as the affordability and some things you mentioned at the end. I am glad that you mention this too, and I hope that D66 will continue to insist that it is important to take real steps now with regard to buy-back protection, but also with regard to the regulation of the middle segment and the continuation of the housing valuation system, even if it is a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u114	I think that abolishing the landlord's tax is ultimately the lever. We need them very much and we will certainly need measures in the interim period when the housing market is not yet what we all hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u115	Mrs. De Boer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u116	Yeah, once. Then let's start by not defining it as the housing market anymore, but as the housing market, because it needs to get more off the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u117	I totally agree with you, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u118	The landlord's tax was briefly discussed. It was set up quite a few years ago, partly because a number of housing corporations were out of line in terms of core tasks and how they were managed. Well, it's true that that landlord's tax can be discounted by housing corporations when they come up with new construction plans. That amounts to quite a large amount, I think almost EUR 1 billion. I just heard D66 plead for an additional fund of 1.5 billion to stimulate housing. What does that add to the 1 billion space that already exists when they come up with new construction plans to stimulate housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u119	That too is not a very good summary of our programme. We call for the amount of the landlord's tax to be converted into a fund from which you can build and from which sustainability measures you do not want but we can be financed. In fact, it is a certain regulation because you do not give it back to the social sector in a single blow, but you say: this is the purpose for which it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u120	That fund sounds very technical, but perhaps Mr Pijlman of D66 can explain it. There is now a landlord's tax and you can get a discount up to 1 billion, if you have good housing projects. Then why should there be such a complicated fund structure? This can already be done, and there's room for that already, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u121	Mr Pijlman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u122	You know as well as I do that the landlord levy is still much higher than the amount of the discount scheme you are referring to. So it could certainly be a very substantial contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u123	I hear Mr Arrowman of D66 making the call to build, build, build. That seems to me to be quite clear and important, but in the meantime we are stuck with D66 and its measures with a nitrogen problem which we cannot build. So shouldn't we be getting rid of these nitrogen measures? We also have a sustainability statement imposed by D66, at least by this cabinet, which makes building far too expensive and too slow. So why don't we stop with those zero-on-the-meter houses, those gas-free homes, so that they can be built much faster and cheaper, if D66 seriously wants to build, build, build?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u124	Mr. Pijlman, please be brief, because we're about to have to suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u125	The problem is that the PVV always looks backwards while we look forward. Those measures of sustainability are simply necessary. You know that too, but you're structurally denying it because it's populist or easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u126	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u127	I'm looking forward too, but I'm mostly looking at what's happening right now. What we see is that those zero-on-the-meter houses just turn out to be a big fiasco. People are in stone-cold homes that they don't get hot in the winter, while on summer days that too heavily boarded isolated homes with heat pumps are just way too hot because of the insulation that makes it all need air conditioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u128	Do you have another question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u129	The so-called sustainability that D66 wants to impose on the housing market is simply a farce that makes the housing programme far too expensive and therefore far too slow. So isn't it just much better to build, build, build and build without all these crazy sustainability measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u130	It's a bit of a rerun of moves. I think Mr Rietkerk has also asked a few good questions about this sustainability. And yes, gasless is another whole project. You shouldn't want it too fast, because we've barely started it. But of course it is the task that we all face in society, individually and collectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u131	Mr. Van Rooijen, one final question. No, Mr. Van Hattem, I'm sorry, we're running out of time. I have to go to lunch. By the way, we will continue with this deadline this afternoon, so you will certainly have the chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u132	Very briefly about the task we all face. Maybe we should all get rid of that task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u133	Mr. Chairman. I was intrigued by a comment by Mr Pijlman on the position of the Second and Upper Chambers. Now I have some experience in both Chambers, also in the Lower House. The Dutch Parliamentary Group of D66 voted against the 2017 Tax Plan, with a tax reduction for workers alone, not for the elderly, of 5 billion. 5 billion, just before the election, and then a decision had to be made in the First Chamber. Rinnooy Kan, chairman of the D66 group, was faced with the question of whether he would support Pechtold by saying no or losing weight by saying yes. In the end, Rutte and Wiebes called me to save the cabinet, along with the OSF and the Party for Animals, to make sure there was a majority. At the very last moment, Rinnooy Kan went through the pump.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u134	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u135	Is the House of Representatives alone the boss, or can it be that for whatever reason, for legal or political reasons, the First Chamber ultimately makes a different choice? Eventually Rinnooy Kan opted for support because he went through the pump with the municipal Kolibri, as I called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u137	For the historiography: you are in favour of an independent position of the First Chamber, like that one...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u138	A very short answer
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u139	It was more of a historical argument that the elderly party 50PLUS had saved the cabinet. Well, let's leave that for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u141	By the way, of course, I am in favour of the position of the Upper Chamber which has the Upper Chamber. But just as we have argued before, I do not like the political mandate here, because there is a different majority and then it is repeated fourteen days later. You must be very reluctant about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-4.u142	Thank you. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
