ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on responsibility for the year 2020. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Before we start this debate, I would like to say a few words to the people in the public gallery, because as of today we will have the opportunity to welcome visitors again on Wednesday. And I think I speak on behalf of everyone: it also belongs in this house, this house of democracy, that there are visitors. It also immediately creates liveliness. During the past period the debates were of course online and on television, but a gallery with only empty seats does not belong in the House of Representatives. But unfortunately, it had to be because of the corona pandemic. And of course, we're moving soon. I hope that in B67 we will again have the opportunity to welcome visitors. I think I can also say this on behalf of trade union K, and certainly on behalf of the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who has an important responsibility when it comes to renovation and relocation. Then let's talk to the members. We have many speakers. The order is in line with the budget; we always start with the largest opposition party. Speaking time is based on the key in plenary, which I have also established with you. In terms of interruptions, I would like to agree with you: four questions or moments, what you do with those moments, is up to you in the first term for the Chamber, and six questions addressed to the directors. And the request is, because there are many of us, to do this briefly, without too long introductions. Then everyone comes to their senses. Well, with this kick-off, I would like to give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV, for his contribution. But first Mr Azarkan of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you. I have a point of order. We have, of course, seen how the General Court has destructively ruled on the VWS ministry. In fact, I would like to ask that the VWS Minister join us today, so that we can also get first-hand answers. I suspect that colleagues too will have a lot of questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	We know there's a WHO from VWS on June 23rd. That's where questions can be asked. However, on your point of order, I would like to ask my fellow Members: is there any support for Mr Azarkan's proposal to invite the VWS Minister to this debate of accountability? First of all, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	The delegation in box K has already been exchanged several times, including during the procedural meetings. And I don't need it myself. And I would have liked to have heard this request earlier, in order to consider supporting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	No support. I'll see if anyone else thinks so. The Party for Animals? I'll give you the floor in a minute. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	We do not have any questions about this. We'll call it. But if a colleague needs it, I think that should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	I also think it is a good thing, because of course VWS is under enormous fire, also from the General Court, and the deal with Sywert van Lienden is prominently on the agenda. These are all matters that the VWS Minister should answer for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. You support it. Now Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	The cabinet is, of course, ultimately about its own delegation. For me it is not necessary, because in this series there are also WHOs with the Chambers and Directors themselves. We have a lot of questions about this, of course, but under the Compatibility Act Article 4.11 of my mind, the Minister of Finance also deals with the coordination of financial management, so a lot of my questions about VWS go to the Minister of Finance. So as far as I'm concerned, this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	Fine, thank you. Then Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have a lot of questions about that, too. The cabinet just has to answer them. And if during the debate it appears that the answers are inadequate, then we can always ask the VWS Minister to come here. But I assume the cabinet is prepared for the question fire from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. Finally, Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	For the sake of clarity, I would like to support this. I also have a lot of questions about this, but I expect the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance to be able to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	Then I conclude that there is no majority for the request. I suggest you start with your first term. I call Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about 2020 today. What a nightmare that was. What a year. It all started out so beautifully. In the meantime, the cabinet thought it could sit back for another year, then up to the elections, because everything was going smoothly. The economy was spinning nicely. Unemployment was low and public finances looked good. At the IRS, the money fucked up against the plinths. Whoever hurts me must have thought this finance minister. Well, it may be. After two months, the coronavirus entered the Netherlands. The panic struck. Everything was locked. In less than three months, the Netherlands had changed from a vibrant country to a ghost town. No chicken on the street. Get rid of traffic jams. Everyone stayed inside for the tube. Whole sectors were closed by government orders. There was even a curfew. This was unprecedented. This cabinet, in its own words, in the fog, in a thick fog. They didn't see a hand in front of them anymore. My first question to these rulers, in retrospect, with the knowledge of today, is: what else would they have done? The Minister of Finance opened all registers. Money didn't matter. He had deep pockets, very deep pockets. One aid package after another was rigged. The NOW, the Tozo, the TVL, the TOGS, the COL, the TONK: all arrangements to support the economy. In the meantime, therefore, the numerator stands at 80 billion in aid. This excludes the 16 billion in deferred taxes. Mr. Chairman. But beneath the surface it brews and bubbles. The future is and remains uncertain. Are we making a flashy start, with catching up and prosperity, or are we still facing delayed misery, many bankruptcies and mass unemployment? The question is therefore what the cabinet will do when all the fog is raised again. Is it going to cut back or invest? The PVV hopes for a generous policy. Do not make the mistake of 2012, when the cuts were made and the burdens were increased to color within the lines of the European Commission. 'Cause that was stupid. Stupid policy and oil on the fire. The PVV still wants to reduce the burden on citizens. More than 1 million people in the Netherlands, 650,000 families, suffer from problematic debts. And that was before Corona. And when I read that one in five workers can whistle at their holiday money, that they have made the groceries 9% more expensive, that the petrol climbs to €2 and that the energy bill threatens to go through the roof again this year, it does not get any better this year. So according to the PVV, lower those charges. Mr. Chairman. So much for the future. After all, it remains Accountability Day, also well known and better known as meatluck day. The Court of Auditors is therefore cutting it short, because in financial terms, 2020 was a mess: EUR 9 billion in commitments and EUR 4.3 billion in expenditure were not found to be legitimate. The last time this happened was 12 years ago. More than half is due to corona. The Court of Auditors found no less than 50 shortcomings. In EUR 5 billion, the Chamber is late or incompletely informed. Our budget law was violated. Mr. Chairman. The great culprit, there he is. He was VWS. Financial management was seriously inadequate, i.e. it was a mess. 5.1 billion in public money was spent illegally on testing equipment, equipment and mouth caps. It lacked receipts and receipts. So we don't know if and how much stuff was delivered. The General Court therefore formally objected to the Minister. Speaking of masks. Which brings me to Sywert van Lienden. This case is exemplary for how it went with VWS. Because this represents so much more. This member of the CDA programme committee thought for a moment that he could be the merciful Samaritan with his aid troops. He would solve the problems surrounding the delivery of the mouth caps. "Don't worry about it," because of course he didn't have to make any money. "Are you crazy? I'm here to help from the CDA mindset," he must have thought. He was widely praised as a savior in every talk show as a hero in need. But what does it turn out to be? These same Sywert and his friends made millions, to be exact, 28 million euros. This place smells like CDA-friend politics and nepotism. My first question is what the directors of the CDA house knew about this. Because how is it that a prominent CDA, an official of the municipality of Amsterdam, without experience, without capital and without company suddenly gets an order of 100 million euros to deliver mouth caps? How is this possible? It's like a movie! He was flabbergasted himself that he could do this. When the millions flew him, he said that he also reported it to the CDA's integrity committee. So everyone knew about it, including the minister of VWS, Hugo de Jonge, his PA, the minister of finance. They're all CDAs who knew about it and let it happen. This reeks of mafia practices. There's gonna be a survey. Then this will certainly be taken into the interrogation. The Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries objected to this deal. Sywert and his friends were found unreliable and unfit and the mouth caps were too expensive. They were no less than €1 more expensive.We heard that yesterday at Nieuwsuur.... than if he sold them to other nursing homes. €1 times 40 million mouth caps: that's 40 million euros too expensive! Besides, they weren't really necessary. Yet this deal was pushed through. To this day, these 40 million mouth caps are rotting away in a shed with the stamp 'approved'. Now he's sorry. Instead of returning the money to the treasury, he wants to invest it and spend it on charity, such as underprivileged children or children with cancer. You've got to have the guts. I'm glad KiKa and KWF refuse to receive this blood money. I'm saying he has to throw everything back and be ashamed of himself for the rest of his life. What a mess. Where was the Minister of Finance? 'Cause we don't hear much of him. He should have ensured that VWS' financial management and accountability were in order, but he points to the VWS Minister. Why didn't he intervene, is my question. What did he know, and what did the Prime Minister know about this shady deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	In my opinion, Mr Van Dijck has been spokesperson for some 15 years. The questions he is asking the Minister of Finance, which I understand, I would like to put to him. What has he done over the past 15 years as a spokesperson for state spending to get the financial management of VWS in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	In the last 15, 20 years, I think it's passed 17 times. I have to review all my speech texts from the past 15 years, but every time there was a serious flaw in VWS about subsidies and too much is being spent. Every year you always ask for attention to be paid In the end, that way, in my view, artificial windfalls are created. These are all matters that I have to denounce, but this is just a very exemplary case of 5.1 billion. That's unique and never happened before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	I think that I heard amounts that do not quite correspond to the case, but it is precisely that structural aspect that concerns me. I understand all the questions about the incident. That's bad enough. An investigation has also been announced. But I am also trying to look at the role of the Chamber over the past fifteen years in this structural problem, what we can do in the coming period and what I can expect from the PVV. For it is simply the case that many of the groups that are present here, including groups with far fewer members than the PVV, do make all kinds of efforts to provide rapporteurs, for example in analysing the annual reports, while the PVV fails to do so. My question to Mr Van Dijck is simply: can we also count on Mr Van Dijck's group in the near future, even if it is not due to noise but simply to follow the structural monitoring of the improvement of the financial weather, which is urgently needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	Yes, of course. We always like to think about where we can do better, but of course it is up to the cabinet. I simply notice very clearly the illegality at VWS, with 5.1 billion public money. Then you can give me... I'm not the Minister of Finance. They won't even talk to us! In other words, do you now ask me if I can come to a solution, so that the Minister of Finance takes more control and draws more supervision? That's what the Minister of Finance has to do. That's what I'm talking to him about. If we can help from the benches or participate or do something in the votes or something, we will of course do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	The PVV Group can certainly help as one of the larger groups in this House, for example by providing a few rapporteurs instead of zero, so that we can do that work. But you can't just put this on the board of the Minister of Finance. I think that, as a Chamber, we should also discuss this with the US Secretary of State. We must not only note that there is an injustice in the coming period. Mr Van Dijck himself says that he has been doing this for 15 years. Apparently that didn't work. So let us also ensure that we, as a Chamber, remain more involved in the coming period and intensify that supervision. That also requires something from Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	We certainly need to step up surveillance, but the direction is ultimately in subject-K. That's where it has to be. I have always been faithful and involved in debates on the Court of Auditors. My input is, therefore, that it is not going well. Mr. Chairman. I need to see where I left off. And now he's sorry, but instead of the money... Oh, I told you. I say return it all. Where's the VWS Secretary? Why can't we hear him? His department is under severe attack, and this CDA has also been approached several times by Sywert van Lienden. Hence my appeal to have him here, so that he can answer. Mr. Chairman. Dan Groningen, also one of those debacles that haunts us. Most of the victims are still waiting for their money. The NAM is being very difficult. She wrings herself in all sorts of turns to get out of her responsibilities. They refuse to recover and refuse to pay. 26,000 houses are waiting for the NAM. And the director of the NAM said in an interview, but that turned out to be a bit of a slip of the tongue, that he was willing to repair 50 houses. To tell you what the attitude of the NAM is! And who's gonna get hurt like that? Those are the Groningen. The General Court also found that the cost of assessing the damage is disproportionate, i.e. ridiculously high. Each house costs an expert of as much as €50,000. For every euro in damages paid, the government has lost 56 euro cents in costs. Isn't it time for the Minister of Finance to get involved in this? 'Cause this is gonna blow up, too. And so the NAM has so far refused to pay BZK an invoice of 295 million. The same applies to the surcharges. That's where it goes wrong. Lots of bleat, little wool. Secretary of State van Huffelen was so panicked that she promised €30,000 compensation to all those who were injured just before Christmas, on Twitter, to bring peace to the tent. Just before Christmas! But it entered into an obligation of EUR 0.5 billion. Of course, it's fine that we are generously compensating the victims of the premium affair, but it's not okay to put the Chamber before an accomplished fact and not inform us in good time, in order to override our budget right. That's not okay. The Recovery Organization has already cost 527 million. 527 million! But that money was not paid to the victims but to officials. Because here too: a lot of overhead costs but little money to the victims. Of the 40,000 parents only half received the promised €30,000. And so far, you don't believe it, President-in-Office of the Council, the real damage has only been determined by 14 parents. 750 officials have spent a year trying to identify 14 actual damages. Mr President, they are more in the process of meeting; that is also what the General Court says. It's all bureaucratic and poachy, they're managers, team leaders and employees, and they're meeting all day about the internal organisation in the long term. But they're not working on the core to compensate those people. Here again the question: will the Minister of Finance finally intervene and intervene? Because here too, things are in danger of going completely wrong. The Minister of Finance is running away from his responsibilities. He's not in control of the pennies, and that's bad. The General Court also considers that the Minister has failed as a supervisor. First, on the decision-making of aid packages, second, on the monitoring and enforcement of rules in tax regimes. And he should have intervened earlier at VWS, where financial management and accountability were completely derailed. Finally, my question to the Minister for Finance is: what is he going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD. It's his maiden speech today. There are no interruptions to be done. There are several people with a maiden speech today, so before lunchtime I want two people who have made their maiden speech to receive the congratulations and the other two at the end of the first term of the Chamber. So we do it in stages. I call Mr Heinen. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	Is the tissues ready? And no PowerPoint presentation, I say to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Chairman. It will not have escaped some of you that I recently became a father again. All the clichés about having children are true. Kids, for example, keep a huge mirror in front of you. They confront you with your own shortcomings to the fullest. In my case, children also make it clear that not everything that has value in life can be calculated. Parenthood also brings back forgotten memories from your own childhood. For example, a few weeks ago, I was in a classroom with my wife, picking out a little school for my son. Suddenly, of course, I remembered my own classroom. I saw that not so much has changed. The same little chairs, small benches, cheerful drawings on the wall. The only thing that really seemed different was the chalkboard. That has been replaced by a whiteboard. As I stood there, I remember how above the chalkboard from my time a very large map hung. It was completely red-colored: the Soviet Union. I watched that every day with amazement. Then I remember my first presentation. That's pretty traumatic for most people. Who doesn't remember? Usually it's about something like your rabbit or a panda bear. I thought it would be a good idea to talk about the differences between East and West Berlin. I was in sixth grade, and I had to practice a little bit how to tune your message to your audience. The teacher looked down head-shaking and those poor kids really had no idea what I was talking about. And I really didn't do it myself. For how can differences between prosperity and poverty be so great and separated by a simple wall? I would not find the answer to that question until much later, after extensive studies of economic and political systems. I will not bother you, but the conclusion is that economic differences can often not be explained by cultural or geographical differences, by differences in climate or religion or by people's popularity. The choice of prosperity simply depends on the choices we make here in this Parliament. The choice of free democracy, the rule of law, the market economy and free trade. I sometimes hear politicians loosely quote a quote from Churchill, that democracy is the worst form of governance, with the exception of all other forms. But quite frankly, I find that a rather lazy thought. It's a thought that fits when you have the power, but you won't have the power. Then you're just happy that you're living in a democracy and that you can correct that power. No, liberal democracy is not the least miserable form of governance, it is the best form of governance. Our democratic rule of law, in which freedom is central, is superior to everything. That's my sacred conviction. Where else are people more prosperous, happier, healthier? Where else can you be who you are, love who you want to be and become who you want to be? Where else aren't you gonna be dealt with on your faith, on your origins? Of course, that does not apply to everyone, I say to a number of parties in this Parliament. Not everything is perfect. But look in another country, and you thank God on your bare knees that you live in the Netherlands. That gratitude should be shown a little more often. Mr. Chairman. It's a privilege to live in this country. It's a privilege to be able to raise my children in this country. It was a privilege to grow up in a time when freedom had won: the 1990s, a unique period in world history. The Wall had fallen, borders opened, Europe integrated, the State was reduced, the Church was reduced. Privatisations and the free market were central. Individual freedoms were central. Prosperity was increasing visibly. We grew up thinking that history is one straight line forward and that everything will eventually be okay. But how different is that for the people who grew up less than a decade after me? The dotcom crisis, accounting scandals, the banking crisis, the European debt crisis, top managers who paid each other millions of bonuses; the free market failed. It was also a period when it became clear that the middle class didn't automatically advance on it anymore. A period in which a new red danger arose in the Far East and joined free international world trade. A period in which populism finally broke through in Europe. As Raegan and Thatcher symbolize the time I grew up, Trump and Boris Johnson will eventually symbolize the period when people grew up just after me. They built their political careers on the enormous uncertainties of very normal people, by ruse and deceit and by offering false solutions. That does not mean that the problems they raise are wrong, or that the people who vote for them are wrong. Their concerns are certainly justified. Many ordinary Dutch people no longer automatically benefit from our current systems, from the free market, open borders and unlimited migration. It is important that we acknowledge that. It is even more important that we are working on real solutions. We need to get the economy back to working for a broad middle class. "Shaping the fringes of capitalism" we called it earlier. We must recognise that there are limits to globalisation and to the continuous maximisation of shareholder returns. We must recognise that a strong government is sometimes needed to protect businesses and sometimes to protect citizens from businesses. A strong government also requires proper control of that government. It's about a government that's accountable. With that, Mr President, I come to the subject we are debating today: Accountability Day, one of the most important days of the year. A democracy distinguishes itself from all other forms of government by being accountable, a word they don't even know in a country like Turkmenistan. Good accountability lays the foundation for society's trust in government. Or, as I hear a lot of people say, I don't mind paying taxes, as long as it's spent a little well. That is the central question here today. I would like to focus on three main points: expenditure during the corona crisis, the budget law of the House of Representatives and information from the cabinet. Point one. I understand that during a crisis speed sometimes goes for care. While ambulances run off and off all over the country and people take a breath, the first thought is not whether your files are well archived. Then your priority is to help people. Then patients go for bookkeepers. Still, that shouldn't be a pass. I therefore had to take a breath myself when I heard the Minister of Health in the First Chamber, when asked about the 5 billion in unlawful expenditure, reply that it had to be done quickly, but that he had never heard the House of Representatives about the legality of the expenditure, and that the Chamber never asked for it. That is true, Mr President, but I can assume that a minister will simply abide by the law, namely Article 3.3 of the Compatibility Act, which states that a minister is responsible for the legality of financial management. Moreover, the problems are deeper. That has already been referred to. According to the General Court, the financial management of VWS has been inadequate for some time. The corona crisis has only strengthened this and therefore brought even more to the surface. My colleague from D66 will deal with this structural problem in a moment. You read that in the paper yesterday. With regard to the EUR 5 billion in illegal expenditure, which is a gross exaggeration, although we will be discussing this later, it is partly unclear whether the purchased goods have actually been delivered. In the midst of a crisis, that is still quite explainable. I assume that the Minister of Finance has in the meantime set up a project to find out. It's a matter of calling care institutions and counting devices. How's that going? Point two: the budget right of the House of Representatives. On the basis of the Compatibility Act, a minister, with a minister, can only spend money after the Court has given its consent. However, the law also provides for an exception, Article 2.27, paragraph 2, to be precise. It states that the Minister of Finance can also spend money without the permission of the Chamber if the Minister considers this to be in the interests of the Empire. It is a fairly open article that requires further elaboration and requires better justification under which conditions this exception clause can be used and how the House of Representatives is subsequently informed. I would like a response from the Minister of Finance to that. And is he willing to clarify the Compliance Act on this point? Can the Minister also comment on the NRC's report on the development of the National Education Programme and the EUR 8.5 billion that has been made available for this purpose on an occasional basis? According to the NRC, the Minister of Finance wanted to spend the money as quickly as possible to radiate urgency. That seems to me to be a bit at odds with budget law. I assume it was the Minister's job to help the children as quickly as possible and to avoid learning disadvantages. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this later. I was surprised that the money was promised without making clear agreements on the purpose, the target groups and the intended result. The Court points out this in the annual report of OCW. This also seems to be contrary to the Compatibility Act, Article 3.1. Can the Minister comment on exactly how this was done? The third point is the provision of information by the cabinet. The Court of Auditors does not give an opinion on the policies pursued in the past year until May during the Day of Accountability. However, according to the same Court of Auditors, in many cases it was already clear that financial management had shortcomings in several ministries. If the Chamber is previously aware of threatening abuses, it may also be possible to intervene earlier. The Minister should therefore inform the Lower House sooner if the Court finds that mistakes have been made. In short, a reporting obligation for the cabinet in case of abuses in financial management. I would like a response from the Minister of Finance to that. Mr President, I will conclude. I started my contribution with the memory I had when I was standing with my wife in the classroom thinking about the big map that was hanging over the blackboard in my day. I was also wondering what kind of map my son will be looking at, my two sons in the meantime. Is that a map with a new red danger in the Far East? Will populism dominate? Every man for himself? Or do the free democracies prevail? I'm an optimist and I think the latter. Simply because our democracy, in which freedom is central, is superior, takes the best out of people and leads to the best results. But it's not gonna come on its own. We in this Parliament will have to fight hard for it and work for solutions for very normal people. Not neoliberalism, but middle class liberalism, which I am committed to in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you. Then I congratulate you on your lovely maiden speech. It's a very nice personal but also political-historical story. I'm curious to see what your little boys are about to have a talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	I hope about rabbits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	I hope they can decide freely. Very good luck in this House of Representatives. For lunch, we're going to congratulate you a little more. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Heinen on his maiden speech. I disagreed with a great deal, but in the future we will probably have enough opportunities to cross the swords in substance. But let me say that at least I agree with one thing: it is a real privilege to live this beautiful country, also for a socialist; despite everything, I would almost say. Mr. Chairman. Today we look back on a painful year. Above all, painful for all those people who have become ill or loved ones have been lost in the corona pandemic. Almost 18,000 people died in the Netherlands from the effects of the coronavirus and almost 4 million people worldwide. It is good to realise that this is the painful background to this debate today. Worldwide, governments have had to take extraordinary measures to reduce the number of poor sacrifices, including in the Netherlands. Many of these measures were themselves painful, but necessary. That is why the SP has supported many measures, but most of them have not. In order to reduce the damage to the economy of the corona measures, aid measures had to be put in place as a matter of urgency. Billions have been spent to keep businesses and jobs alive, albeit in hibernation, with a major impact on public finances. I have a lot of questions about that policy and finances by 2020, but anyone who looks through his eye hairs at the policy pursued must still see a victory of left-wing ideas. The VVD even started her speech by saying goodbye to neoliberalism. Those left-wing ideas are carried out by right-wing apologists, but still, they are left-wing ideas. Organised solidarity has gained from the every-for-one mentality in our economy. Central direction and cooperation have won it from commerce and competition in healthcare. And independence and production at home have won free trade when it comes to many essential products, such as mouth caps and medicines. The increasing victories of left-wing ideas are promising for the future of our country, but there is still a great deal going on in terms of implementation and accountability to the parliament. A pandemic is not commonplace; I also realize that, but it should not be a free pass for reckless governance and panic football. That is what we have seen a lot, unfortunately. The tolerance limit for unlawful expenditure and obligations has been exceeded for the second year in a row. Added together, this amounts to some EUR 13.3 billion. That is about €1,000 per adult Dutchman on which the government cannot answer. Everyone understands that in the middle of a pandemic, you might have ordered too many masks afterwards, or test material. The SP doesn't blame the government for that. We understand that, in retrospect, you may have paid too much for that. I don't blame the government for that, either. But what I do blame the government is that the accounts and the organisation were not in such a way that we as representatives of the people can't even check afterwards whether too much has been bought and whether too much has been paid, simply because there is no receipts or no proof of it. Contracts have often been awarded directly to suppliers through the Ministry without any justification or evidence, for example through political connections. That is therefore €1,000 per adult Dutchman who has been illegally issued by the government in such an unDutch way. The Court of Auditors is therefore right to object formally to this. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he will take full responsibility for this. When did the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance hear about the major shortcomings at the Ministry of Health in the pandemic and what did they do? The shortcomings were already clear in September 2020, but no action was taken at the time. Why not? Mr Van Lienden stated on Sunday that also officials from the Ministry of Finance were simply involved in these kinds of private deals in the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. Was the Minister of Finance aware of this too? How did he intervene? Does the Prime Minister, on behalf of his cabinet, promise today in Parliament that the percentage of illegal expenditure and obligations will again be well below the 1% limit next year? Mr. Chairman. In this pandemic, the SP has repeatedly sent the signals from the workplace to the government. For example, for too long, only or too much has been spent on hospitals and care for the elderly and disability has been left behind. But we have also raised the alarm about the organisation, strategy, deficits and the so-called 'central approach', which has failed time and time again. Nor have we forgotten the ministers and mayors who pointed out to each other when measures had to be taken in the autumn. It has just become clear in 2020 that our country is a lot less organized than we all thought. Certainly the Ministry of Health has not been able in many respects to act adequately in a crisis situation as a pandemic. That is, of course, a major problem, because it is very likely that this will not be the last pandemic we will have to deal with. What is the government going to do about this? What steps is she going to take to make the Ministry of Health pandemic proof? And what lessons have been learned from the challenges of 2020? Mr. Chairman. The vast majority of the aid measures were not for concern, but for companies. That is legitimate, as long as these measures benefit the people in the workplace. People's sense of justice is seriously affected when companies receiving state aid pay high bonuses to the top executives at the same time. Whether it is generic aid, such as the NOW scheme, or specific aid, such as KLM: that money simply does not belong in the pockets of wealthy top men. Unfortunately, I note that the government is not getting through when bonuses are being paid to companies of this kind. There's a lot of barking, but there's no biting. And so it just keeps happening, for example with KLM and Booking. That last company decided after actions by the SP to repay the aid, but still not to waive those bonuses. They are so used to it; it has become so normal. How does the Cabinet intend to maintain support for this type of large-scale support if it continues to bark at antisocial top men, but does it not bite through? If the cabinet finds this difficult, then today the SP will come up with a proposal to really tackle those grabs at the top. Mr. Chairman. The Job-related Investment Discount is perhaps the best proof of the government's lax attitude when it comes to transferring money to large companies. They wanted to give 4 billion euros to companies. There were all the aid measures, and we supported a large proportion of them. On top of that, however, the government wanted to give 4 billion euros to companies, in the middle of a pandemic and in the middle of a crisis. Eventually, it was flagged back by Brussels. That's how this gift was lost to business. The third attempt has thus also been lost: after the abolition of dividend tax and the reduction of profit tax, the BIK is also off the table, and that is entirely right. What lesson does the cabinet draw from this failure? The ease with which the government transfers money to companies is in stark contrast to the way it deals with ordinary people. 2020 was also the year in which the Implementing Organisation Recovery Fees was set up to compensate victims in the supplement scandal. The conclusions about this organization are murderous. Not only the SP gets a signal from people about the large-scale abuses at that organization. The Court says: "Too much attention is paid to the internal organisation and too little to contact the parents. Many parents are in uncertainty for a long time and do not understand the complicated procedures. The Tax Administration communicates in technical language and is not sufficiently empathetic." The Ombudsman says about the same organisation that he is deeply concerned about the speed of the recovery operation. He fears that the organisation will not be able to decide on the recovery requests in good time and that as a result the confidence of the victims, which is already at a low point, will be further damaged. Meanwhile, the responsible Secretary of State continues to play nicely this morning, as if she were living in a different world than the rest of us, and as if she were living in a different world than those tens of thousands of families involved in these organizations. The Prime Minister must also get all these signals in the ministerial sub-committee on this matter. What world does he live in, I ask him. How does he look at the slow implementation of the compensation in the supplement scandal, which has been the subject of a cabinet and which, moreover, is constantly making major mistakes? Is the Prime Minister prepared to intervene himself and put things in order with this implementation organisation, if this continues? I also ask the Minister of Finance the same question. Unfortunately, the surcharge scandal is not in itself. Think of the chromium-6 scandal, and in Groningen there are similar experiences. The 56 cents of every euro that goes to the settlement of damages in Groningen is paid for by implementation costs. That's what the PVV has already mentioned. That's incredible, isn't it? 56 cents of every euro! The distrust of the cabinet in people is therefore too great, but their confidence in large companies such as the NAM, KLM or Booking may even be greater, and that is a big problem. The SP is for a fair government. Whether they are the victims of the chromium-6 scandal, the surcharge scandal or the earthquakes in Groningen: the government must be there for them, for ordinary people with a modal income, who do not come to the wind. Unfortunately, the opposite is true: the inequality in our country is still too great. The number of households dependent on the Food Bank grew by 7.2% in 2020. In Amsterdam, this increase was even 26%. Surely that should not be necessary in a rich and beautiful country like the Netherlands? It is a disgrace to this debate and, in fact, to all the debates we are having, that we still have so many people who depend on the Food Bank and that it is increasing every year. More and more people, who the government began to realize in 2020, are "essential professions" that keep our country running, are having trouble getting around every month. These millions of people deserve the trust and support of our government, not the multinationals, not the shareholders and not the top executives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66 for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mr President, thank you. I must say: I myself knew the son Heinen before the father Heinen. But his praise for liberal democracy certainly tastes like more. Congratulations and welcome. Mr. Chairman. The European Football Championship is at the door. I myself am especially looking forward to the beautiful football, but I have also sometimes understood that some people can enjoy these endless post-match interviews, after-views and talk programmes about the reviews. I am not very fond of football, but I am sure that we can learn from it in politics in The Hague, because the emphasis here is mainly on the budget: new promises and new policies. On Prinsjesdag we even take the carriage from the stable and the hats come out. But if the game is played and all the expenses are done, then the review is often a bit raffled. While, in my view, that is where the opportunity lies to learn and do better in the new political season. This also means, as far as I am concerned, that we must take a critical look at our own role as auditors, whether we have exercised them properly and what can be done better. So let me start with that. The President of the Court of Auditors rightly mentioned the results of an extensive parliamentary self-reflection of 15 years ago when presenting his report on Accountability Day in Box K. Of course, thanks to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance, but also the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations, many new proposals have been added. However, most thoughts about strengthening Parliament's controlling role, power and counterpower, are not new, but fortunately they find more and more support and the sense of urgency also lives wide. But it's mostly a matter of doing. When I look at the way in which we as a Chamber deal with our controlling government spending, I see clearly positive developments. More permanent chamber committees than ever have appointed rapporteurs to monitor the annual reports. Almost all committees are now also holding legislative consultations on the annual report. The audit of the annual reports is even a mandatory part of the annual plan of all the committees with the new Rules of Procedure. More and more colleagues are using Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act against me in conversations, so that is also positive. And the science test, which we have established in collaboration with VSNU, has already been successfully deployed several times. However, I find that it is often difficult. For this rich spending task has many characteristics of what economists call "a public good": everyone benefits from the proper exercise of this task, but much of the work is invisible and politically, internally or externally, not always equally rewarding. I would like to refer the fans to The Logic of Collective Action by Mancur Olson, for some theoretical reflections on this point. Because of the fragmentation of the House of Representatives we are sitting here today, fortunately, I say, with eighteen political groups, there are also fewer groups that can afford it, or at least those who think they can afford it, to work for it in this way. With a wink, I would add that, after all, 4 500 motions must be tabled every year. But it is precisely this controlling task that requires concentration and concentrated attention. I believe that the re-establishment of the Committee on National Expenditure offers new opportunities for this. But it is above all a question of what we are doing with it, because it was not abolished five years ago for nothing. In the city council of The Hague, I was allowed to chair the Accounting Committee for four years. It was the only council committee where members were not addressed with or by their party name. And whether the alderman who sat opposite us was called Marnix Norder, Ingrid van Engelshoven or Sander Dekker, they found a united committee opposite them, who questioned critically and constructively when discussing progress reports on the financial management of their services. Mr President, this was a nostalgic moment, I hope you will forgive me. But it proved to me that it could all be done, even in a highly politicised environment such as the Hague City Council, as some members of the Chamber can remember. After four years of consistent attention, management had improved considerably. I believe that the Committee on National Expenditure can do the same, but can only succeed if it actively seeks to connect with the rest of the Chamber. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	I know Mr Sneller as a diligent, involved colleague, who has been monitoring the proper, legitimate, effective use of public money for years. But it is true that we have made a great deal of effort in recent years; that is what Mr Sneller is talking about. Only, that actually leads to the reverse results. Indeed, the number of deficiencies has gone from 35 in 2017, to 47 in 2018, to 47 in 2019 and to 50 in 2020. So where does it go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	I do not need to explain to Mr Azarkan that things that are temporary do not need to have a causal link. I think there are some other factors. But although I do see positive developments, I am less optimistic than he is, because I do not think we have done enough ourselves in recent years. I am also thinking of what we ourselves have done from the Finance Committee to see what we can do with this financial management from the point of view of government spending, which the Finance Committee also had. I asked that question to Mr Van Dijck, but I also look at myself and I think: we could have done more ourselves from that spending of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	I think it is absolutely very good that we are looking at our own input and at the moment when we can carry out our monitoring task properly. We need to be able to put down ideas for that, get regular attention for it and not say once a year: it was all bad and wrong. In this respect, Mr Sneller has done a good job in recent years. However, the rules and procurement procedures are clear. There is an annual audit of the General Court. I was looking for something too, because of course there is no dependence. Perhaps there is a correlation between the fact that D66 has been in the cabinet since 2017 and the fact that it went up then. I don't know if there's a dependency there. I wouldn't go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr Azarkan is mild, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	Yes, there is a wind of mildness blowing through this Chamber; we also have visitors today. But still, I wonder how, if it's all clear and we're more committed to each other, it's going in the wrong direction. Then I didn't even bring Corona. It's just a wrong trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	I fully agree with Mr Azarkan that it is a wrong trend. I believe that in recent years and also during the less well-visited legislative debate on the Annual Report on Finance or the general discussions on budgeting and justifications, I have always tried to put my finger on this. I think it is our expensive duty to be more alert to this; I come to speak about it further. As Mr Azarkan also knows, a great deal of attention was paid in the 1980s and 1990s to get a positive statement at all. Then we cannot accept that this trend was already going in the wrong direction for corona. That is why I am very motivated to do even more with the task of spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	In the place where Mr Sneller stands, I have sometimes fought for... Of course, we know a Bureau of Legislation, but we don't know a Treasury Office. This means that it is quite complicated for many political parties to dive into it: apart from being small, it is also complicated. It is already complicated for the General Court. I know that Mr Visser, as President, often says: we have too many reports and too much information rather than too little information. Maybe it's an idea. I'll talk about it briefly later. To what extent can the Chamber be included in the plans earlier? Often it is for budgets for a lot of parties: sign at the cross. Then we talk about the budget for two and a half months and, on balance, we turn 0.3%, tops. So: how can we be taken sooner and better, both when making the plans and when controlling them, instead of looking back here once a year and saying "well, it wasn't right"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	Three different answers. One: the capacity of small fractions to analyse properly. I also presented this to President-designate Bergkamp at the time. After the Jetten motion, which brought more support to the political groups, we must also look at what we can bring to the whole Chamber. We will also have the debate with the Bureau in two weeks' time, in the person of the President, I think, on the budget of the House of Representatives for next year. I hope that we can look back at what we can do to strengthen the Department of Analysis and Research, which is a bit of the Chamber's financial agency. Last year I did so together with DENK in that debate. Then formally give more substance to the Chamber's budget right. I had a text on that. Let me read it to you right away. An important part of the Court's analysis concerns Parliament's budget law, but the discussion seems to narrow down to the narrow question of whether or not the Cabinet complies with the Compatibility Act. That's what I wanted to say. That is a very important question, but how can we really strengthen that budget law? A budget often comes with expenditure on articles that are more than 90% legally required. And then you have all the administrative obligations. So is the Minister of Finance prepared to look at the possibilities of giving the Chamber budget rights for the years after the year in question in the budget? I also drew attention to this at the time with Mr Alkaya or Mr Snels as colleague rapporteur during the legislative consultation on the annual financial report, but I still do not see enough on this point. Then there is the third part of this very long answer to Mr Azarkan's brief question. I think that a general government agreement, which is now singing around, and the idea of setting more targets instead of all kinds of policy instruments, also ensure that you can be more involved in planning at the beginning, at a time when it can also have more real effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	I would like to put a genuine question to Mr Sneller. He talks about 'we': 'we need to be more alert' and 'we need to pay more attention to the things that go wrong in ministries, such as financial accounting and the like'. In recent years, has he always felt all the freedom to really go through with "this is going to go wrong" and, for example, to vote against proposals from the cabinet that are important at least in the imagery, such as the BIK? Did he feel that freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	Not as much freedom as I would like, but I think that is also inherent in coalition agreements. In a country where you compromise, you sometimes vote for things that you're not a hundred percent fan of. Do I think we could arrange that differently or should we? Yes, but in that respect, I am in favour of a much larger system intervention. Anyway, I have found few supporters for the elected prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	I get that. But something like the BIK wasn't in the coalition agreement or anything like that. It didn't have such a basis in coalition agreements that you couldn't possibly oppose it. In all these debates, I did feel like I was fighting against the Beer Cay. I'll give you that. Although I was able to convince you of the substance, certain things seemed to be so stuck that those debates did not seem to have any influence. Mr Sneller says we need to be more alert. Does he agree with me that we should, we all, send proposals back more often if it is really obvious that there are a lot of hooks and eyes on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yes. That is what representatives of D66 said before and after the elections. That also requires a different way of making such agreements. I think that's something that's getting wider and wider. Moreover, Mr Alkaya did not have those debates with me. So I find it difficult to comment exactly on the ins and outs about the BIK. A second question is whether you are the only one in a group to vote against if someone else is the spokesperson. I think that we need to be more critical of the questions arising from Article 3.1.Compatibility law, precisely when it comes to tax instruments. That was often asked in this Chamber at the time. This time the Court of Auditors is calling for attention to be given to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u46	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u47	So I shall come back to that connection with other committees in the Chamber in a moment. Mr. Chairman. The building blocks for a trend break are there, I think, and the need for a turning point is certainly there. 'Cause what about that responsibility? I'd say he's been on the elevator for years. Alone, I'm afraid that elevator is going down. This year it was already remembered there were no less than 50 imperfections, of which 2 were serious. There were more departments this year that did cross the border for errors and unlawful acts than departments that did not. For years, I have called it our expensive duty not to slacken, because we must guard the legacy of the 1980s and 1990s, which I have just mentioned. The biggest mistake we can make right now is to see these problems as an incident. 'Cause, uh, the corona crisis, huh? Of course it offers a context for the imperfections, but it is not a indulgence for all sins. Sometimes I hear the false contradiction between legality on the one hand and managing the crisis on the other. It ignores missed opportunities for interim action, the structural causes that vexed last year and the long-standing trend of rising error rates. And yes, then those weaknesses in a crisis come to light mercilessly, and then it turns out that checks-and-balances are in order. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Department of Defense. This year, unfortunately, again no flag or flag. But there are signs of recovery and modernisation. Yet the dominant image remains that the foundations are fragile. I have three points to make. Firstly, two deficiencies were solved, but also two new ones were immediately added. Most of all, my group is concerned about the worsening situation surrounding the ammunition supply. How does the cabinet view the Court of Auditors and, in particular, the worsening situation in the administration of the ammunition stock, I ask the person in charge who wants to take it up. Secondly, the report from the visor, which showed that defense cut nearly 0.5 billion less than planned. Could the Minister of Finance reflect on this? When did the DOD see this coming? And how could it have deviated so far from the financial plan? Thirdly, therefore, this year the Court of Auditors notes this serious flaw in real estate management. The interdepartmental policy research on this issue is also very critical. That's no small thing when you realize that Defence has to manage no less than 11,000 buildings and 340 million square meters of land, as much as the area of the municipalities of Amsterdam, The Hague and Utrecht together. The insight into the value and maintenance of the real estate is limited, and the collaboration with the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf remains suboptimal. I would like to hear, also from the Secretary of State, how this problem will be resolved swiftly. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Health, Welfare and Sport, VWS, where the Court of Auditors also found a serious flaw and even used the instrument of objection. The financial management of VWS has not suddenly deteriorated during the corona crisis. The Court of Auditors has been warning us for many, many years. Although the figures and qualifications that fly around in the public debate are not all equally accurate, Mr Heinen also referred to this issue, but it is clear that financial management has been out of control. We can see, for example, that the Court of Auditors is heavily critical of the buying-in of the corona policy, while the purchasing process of the National Consortium Resources has not even been specifically investigated. The agreement with the Relief Goods Alliance B.V. may have become the most painful example of this. We still have some questions about this deal, but they have also been put in writing. An external investigation has been announced, and there will be another legislative consultation on the VWS annual report. However, for the wider picture, I also ask the Minister of Finance how he looks at the added value of the Court of Auditors to investigate this, not just the case, but all three major deals that exceed 100 million. Because only then can you draw the equation. Are these all being included in that independent investigation? And can these become public right now? Mr. Chairman. If I then zoom out of the financial management of VWS, the role of the Ministry of Finance will also be shown. So can the Minister of Finance also indicate what his involvement was, when the signals came to him last year that the financial management at VWS was not doing well and what was done then? It was only last month that this improvement plan came from the Court of Auditors, and perhaps there was also a responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Chairman. So two serious flaws. I believe that we in the Chamber should be able and willing to follow this approach in the near future, so that we are not shocked again until next May that it is still not in order. So I think that the Chamber should also take more intensive care of this. It seems to me that it is important that the Committee on National Expenditure also cooperates with the other committees that the Committee on VWS and the Committee on Defence itself are in charge of this, but that we provide backup and other support from the Committee on National Expenditure. Tomorrow morning, therefore, we will meet for the first time as a committee with the rapporteurs from all the other committees. This increased monitoring also requires the directors of VWS and Defense to keep us informed more often than only in the annual report. I will therefore table a motion in the second term to receive two progress reports on this subject for the next annual report, so that it can also be discussed with the responsible directors. Mr. Chairman. I'm joining the Compatibility Act. I think that many people can understand the fact that exceptional times call for exceptional measures. The problem is that even the exception clauses have not been respected; Mr Heinen has already spoken about them. Instead of a normal budget, the exception is that incidental supplementary budget, which is then subject to the emergency control provided for in Article 2.27, i.e. I shall start to spend, but the Chamber has been informed. But even those minimum requirements have been violated to a considerable extent. These events give sufficient grounds to evaluate the Compatibility Act. I believe it is scheduled for five years after entry into force. If that 1 January 2018 has entered into force, then that will also be the case. So what is the plan of action and what is the precise time plan for this evaluation? Is the Minister of Finance also prepared to include in this evaluation how the Ministry of Finance itself has been twice called upon by the General Court of Auditors, and whether this is due to the law itself or to its implementation? I'm very curious about that myself. Then the Monitor Brede Prosperity. It is increasingly being taken into account in the formulation of these objectives, the effectiveness and effectiveness of that Article 3.1. I was pleasantly surprised by the self-reflection and preview of this year's cabinet response to the Monitor Brede Welvaart. After years in which the enthusiasm, especially of Mr Van Raan, came from this Chamber and other parts of the House of Representatives, this seems to have taken up a post in the cabinet and that enthusiasm seems to be shared; for which compliments. The next step is to integrate the Broad Prosperity Monitor or the core set the planning agencies are talking about into the policy cycle. I'm glad the Cabinet is prioritizing that. My question is: is it going to be prepared for this? Mr. Chairman. When we talk about setting and evaluating objectives, I also get...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u48	This is a maiden interruption. Is Mr. Sneller allowed to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u49	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u50	Okay. I'm interested in the Monitor Brede Prosperity. In itself, I am not against this at all. I think it is important that we look more broadly than just GDP. If we go to the next step and we are going to integrate it into policy, then my question is whether Mr Sneller thinks the monitor is complete. It contains important indicators, including sustainability and climate. Anyway, I have a lot of trees in my street and behind every tree a thief can stand and I personally find that security is really lacking in that Monitor Brede Prosperity. How does Mr Sneller view this? Does he think that monitor is complete enough to be included in the policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u51	I think there's security feelings as an indicator, too. The monitor shall be set up independently. So I find it difficult to say as a political one: this indicator still needs to be included. But there has been some evolution in the composition and at the same time the monitor is actually very wide in its entirety. It's more wide to use than not wide enough. At our request, the planning agencies have therefore considered a core set, as they call it. I fully agree with Mr Heinen that it should be a bit of a reflection of what, so to speak, I say the crazy thing, Mr Alkaya thinks is important to what Mr Van Dijck thinks is important. So that composition has to be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u52	Then I hear Mr Sneller right: I agree, we should not have a very wide set of indicators, because at some point you won't see the forest through the trees. But you therefore agree that we need to move towards a core set, in which there are a wide range of issues, including security, integration, migration, and also the other issues. I can't see him looking harder, so I'm asking you to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u53	Yes, wide, but now Mr Heinen is smuggling what he is doing in his own right for a first interruption, after all, a number of other issues that are not in there at all. But, for example, the ACVZ, the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs, has just written a report on labour migration, in which it also shows how to approach such a theme from a wide range of wealth. I think that is a very productive approach. And I would like to discuss the specific composition with Mr Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u54	I'm actually very happy with the input... But let me begin, of course, with the congratulations. Oh, to the wrong person?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u55	Yes, Mr. Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u56	Good. Then I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u57	I'd like to collect it for me four years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u58	Yeah? Then so is this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u59	Great, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u60	I was actually happy when my colleague brought in the Monitor Brede Welvaart, because I think that is a nice tool to agree on the state of affairs and the state of the country. But it also hurt a little, because I remember a few weeks ago, when I was in the place where you are standing, I asked for a really ideological debate: let's talk about the growing income inequality and wealth inequality in our country. And it really hurt me that the VVD was one of those parties that said: we do not support that. And when I hear your speech through the President, do not blame me, it actually sounds like you're looking for some more ideological debates; before we get to all kinds of details, just talk to each other about how things are going and what can be done better. I wonder if I interpret that correctly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr Sneller has come out of this business, that of the D66 Group. So I'm not really VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u62	I hear I'm doing everything wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u63	No, no, no, there are so many...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u64	By the way, D66 was also one of the parties that stopped it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u65	I also saw the video on your Twitter account that turned off that arrangement of work. It was not at all that we did not want an ideological debate. It was more that we have had this debate very often, that 150 new debates have been requested and that it is put at the bottom of the list, so that this debate is rather better, for example, with the Spring Paper next week or the General Financial Reviews in October. But on the contrary, I am very much in favour of holding fundamental debates, including on income inequality, and also on property inequality. And I am also very pleased with the addition to this year to look at shock resistance in that Monitor Brede Prosperity, where indeed the unequal distribution of those assets, the size of those assets, but also the debt gets a very prominent place. So Mrs Simons always knows where to find me for ideological debates in the Chamber or outside. But I do...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u66	... on behalf of D66! All right, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the education. Previously, reference was made to setting the targets and considering whether you can also evaluate them. How do we make efficiency demonstrable and insightful, without teachers having to spend hours on Excelsheets, fill-in forms and tracking systems? See also the other critical notes of the Court of Auditors on high administrative burden in audit. Mr Alkaya referred to that. And especially in view of the impossibility within the square kilometres of the Hague to take the importance of education for economic growth into account in our analyses, I also find it difficult to have teachers account for themselves in detail. And so we see examples of educational investments where teachers had relatively much freedom to use them at their own discretion. And I understand that the Court of Auditors is critical of the control of efficiency, but it would also be a shame if we went back to the approach to top-down the money without serious participation of the lecturer. My question to the Minister of Finance is to look together with the Court of Auditors to avoid such wrong incentives. For example, can we look at ways in which the sector itself develops clearly measurable standards? A permanent part of the Accountability debate has also become the state of ICT. 2020 has also shown the importance of working at home. If I may believe the State of the National Accountability, corona came exactly when even the Ministry of General Affairs was ready for a homework revolution. My question to the Prime Minister is whether I should now take this as a compliment for the appropriate response of his department to the corona crisis. Or is it more of a sign on the wall that that pandemic was needed to make one person work at home at all? I read that a little bit in between. I do not want to worry that after the crisis General Affairs will become the first employer to face problems if the Work Initiative Act, where you want D66 and GroenLinks, has entered into force. Mr. Chairman. In any case, this Chamber period has begun well from the Chamber, with a new Digital Affairs Committee. The work for this committee has not diminished. That is why a few years ago the Chamber also adopted the Middendorp motion, of the VVD, for an investigation into a state inspection digitization. This could, by analogy with the Ministry of Finance's Ministry of Finance, control the ICT economy. At the end of 2019, this idea appears to have died silently, after a report by ABDTOPConsult and a letter of inquiry about all good progress. We can read in the accounts that that beautiful progress has not brought heaven. What about thinking about the ICT control structures after rejecting the idea, I ask the Secretary of State. In reply to Mr Azarkan, I have already raised the issue of budget law. Then I'd like to close this review, Mr. Chairman. I hope that all the attention paid to Parliament's controlling role will not only lead to us having 17 million federal coaches, but also 17 million Presidents of the Court of Auditors; and at least 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. I propose that we suspend for lunch after Mrs Inge van Dijk's contribution, but have the congratulations for the maiden speeches before that. I call Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the compliments to Mr Heinen for his beautiful maiden speech on the presentation he gave at primary school, with a map of East and West, on the freedom that is so important in our democracy. I would also like to wholeheartedly endorse that. A joke is sometimes made at our home about my first presentation at elementary school. I don't remember it like that, but it was about a cat Mr. Heinen accused his fellow students of. My presentation was indeed about a cat, about how much boy they can get, how old they get and what fur they have. But the latest sheets were about the cost of a young cat, including cat grit and feed. Perhaps that explains why I'm standing here on this Day of Accountability. Mr. Chairman. There's a cabinet of very different cut than a social-democratic cut. That also makes different choices than the PvdA would have done in the past four years. We had paid much more attention to the fight against inequality in the country, in particular the lack of capacity. We had spent much less money on multinationals and large companies, a choice that this cabinet has systematically made. We would have invested more in education. We had ensured that housing was detached and that affordable housing became a larger theme. Certainly in terms of sustainable economy and nitrogen, I would say: had gone through once, to speak with a well-known list leader. Mr. Chairman. Account must also be taken of the choices made by the cabinet. That is what this debate is about today. That is what I will focus my contribution on today. Then I'll start with a heartfelt compliment. Last year, in 2020, a huge crisis broke out. People have had sleepless nights of it and lost relatives. The care has gone all the way over the top. On ic's the absenteeism is about 20%; so that's immense, still. And then there is an economic crisis. But it has been averted, partly by the policy of the cabinet, with many tens of billions of huge support packages. To a large extent, it has also been issued responsibly. It also shows that it can be done. Minister Koolmees deserves a real compliment in this respect for having set up so many complex, large-scale schemes that are working quite well. That doesn't mean there's no criticism. See for example Booking and the possibilities to pay out bonuses. That should have been taken care of. I also have concerns about the amount of companies that have to pay back. That's 60% of the NOW scheme, so that's gonna be a bit of a fuss. But given that you have to act in such a short time, that really deserves a compliment, especially as the results are there. Unemployment has been very limited in such an immense crisis. Income has also remained reasonably stable. The individual who gets fired or loses his job, like the taxi driver, has nothing to do with that, but that is what the crisis package has done. The Labour Party also stands for employment. It is therefore appropriate to pass that on in such a debate. Mr. Chairman. However, I am very critical of financial management, as is the Court of Auditors. It really has a very hard-hitting opinion on the financial management that has been carried out. He objected to a budget. That never really happens. In his role as supervisor, the Minister of Finance has attributed this to a lack of policy. It doesn't seem to come in. I wonder what it takes before the cabinet, and the finance minister in particular, realizes how serious that is. Because last year, when we were talking about the illegal purchase of KLM's shares and about aid, I made a big point of that time and again in debates, it was from the same sheet a suit. Then it's like "it's a crisis," "emergency breaks the law," "it's not all that bad." They look away and blame is shifted to other departments, like this time to VWS. But what didn't they do right? I really miss that in the reactions of the cabinet, especially as it gets worse over the years rather than better. The number of imperfections is increasing. The Minister of Finance says that there are only three more than last year. That's right. Last year there were 47, now 50. The ambition should always be that there should be fewer, but at the beginning of the cabinet period there were 35. So that has deteriorated in recent years. I expect the Minister of Finance, especially when he's been there for four years, to make things better and to spend time on it. Why doesn't he see that as a big problem and say it's only a marginal difference? Then the most important point. VWS, public health, is the largest department in terms of expenditure, now together with Social Affairs through those support packages. So I expect the Minister of Finance to be on top of that on his own, especially since there are always a lot of overruns, as Mr Van Dijck said. The Court of Auditors says that 17 deficiencies have been detected over the last 20 years. So I expect the Minister of Finance to be on top of it to see if things are going well there. At a time of crisis where you know that care needs to be scaled up, test streets need to be built, ventilation equipment and mouth caps need to be bought.................................................................................................................................................. Because I understand that the minister and all those officials there are in the process of solving the health crisis. So I expect the Minister of Finance to say: boys, there are billions going into this crisis, so we're gonna sit down. But the opposite has happened. It's just been said, department, fix it. Then the Court of Auditors said in the autumn, in September, that this really is not going well. That's when nothing happened. Then in November they pulled the hand brake. Then it took another month for a few people to come. In response to the questions of the Chamber, the Minister says: I would like to support and help if they have problems there. Yeah, fucking hell! The Minister shall be responsible for the lawful spending of funds. Of course, the Minister of Health is primarily responsible for this in his own department, but if you know it's going wrong, you have to intervene. That didn't happen. That is what the Court of Auditors is charging the Minister. So does the PvdA. I don't understand how little people look at what's going to happen next year. The Court of Auditors also says that these irregularities will continue next year. I haven't read a rule about what the minister's gonna do to prevent that. That's what worries me. Then there's the second theme. That is also big, and also big money, really big money. We have 116 tax regulations. That's what 111 billion is about. Part of it is tax rebates. We all know that. Whether you're setting that up or something, it's a technical discussion. But I take the most eye-catching example of last year: the Job-related Investment Discount. It does not actually meet any test criterion, but it has been pushed through. It's two billion, or two times two billion, that is, four billion. So that's big money. That BIK goes against all the laws of responsible budgetary management that you can think of. Does it have a clear objective? Does it reach the targets? Are there no alternative means of achieving that goal? Is it well-spent money? That's a whole list of questions. Seven questions the Minister has for that. Everywhere, the answer was no, to all questions of science, of the Council of State and of the entire opposition. As far as legislation is concerned, it was submitted after the Tax Plan, so that is also wrong. It was also linked against the Hoekstra motion. There's been tying. And now it's moved back in. Well, if that's the example for other departments of how to handle public funds responsibly, then things are going badly. So this is an illustration of that. The Court of Auditors is right to say that there are 116 schemes, of which it has selected four. I think that's in Table 4. Well, from the part about those arrangements, tears jump into your eyes. There are seven crucial questions: "no" or "no idea." One of the seven says "maybe" or "possible." But it is the case with all these schemes, from the agricultural exemption to the KIA to the... Well, the BOR hasn't been investigated, but I can deliver it myself. We need to get rid of that. It is also important for the Tax Administration that there are no 116 deductions and discounts, that it becomes a bit feasible. I expected the cabinet to do more about it, and I certainly didn't expect it to deteriorate the tax system with such a BIK. I say this in addition to the political choice, which I do not share, to give to the large business community. I have already mentioned the number of imperfections. I told you, that has increased. I expect a plan from the Minister of Finance to bring it down again. 'Cause that trend was down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u71	I heard Mr Nijboer speak of the BIK. I know his position in that. But still a step back. We used to do it to improve the locational climate. We were not so much concerned with multinationals as with creating jobs and jobs here. You should address that as the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u72	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u73	Then we started the dividend tax. Well, then we don't have to repeat the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u74	That wasn't such a good idea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u75	Then we tried through corporate tax. At the dividend tax Mr Nijboer was angry, at the corporation tax Mr Nijboer was angry. Then we went to the BIK, which was also for SMEs. Mr Nijboer was angry again. And when I read his election program, with 42 billion burdens, I thought that Nijboer is really angry. May I ask, then, how would you like to be attractive to companies from other countries to settle here? What's your vision on that? 'Cause all I hear is what you don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u76	If you make a different political choice, my priority is investment in education, in housing and in minimum wage, then it is not always that you are angry. Then you just disagree. I believe that this cabinet should not have given priority to reducing the burden on large companies. The profitability of business is not the problem of the Dutch economy. The problem of the Dutch economy and society is that the inequality of opportunity in education increases, that there is not enough investment in it. The problem is that people can't get away from their jobs, so sometimes they need two or three jobs to make ends meet. That's why we need to raise the minimum wage. And that's what I'm giving priority to. This is also good for the business environment. Because companies do not want workers who come home emaciated, unable to make ends meet or who have had poor education or infrastructure that rages on all sides. But those are other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mr Heinen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u78	In itself, I agree with that. That's what you have to invest in, in education. All those things you mention are also important. My question was just how Mr Nijboer intends to improve the locational climate in the Netherlands. He moved the debate to education and matters like the labour market. Also important, but that was not my question. My question was: how do you want to be an attractive country for companies to settle here? You say that there should be 42 billion in burdens and that every multinational is actually bad. I'm curious to hear your views on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mr Heinen concludes from his wrist, but I never said that. My belief is that companies choose the Netherlands, and should also opt for the Netherlands, because we have a highly educated population, because we are a great country to live in, because there are also houses available for everyone and because there are good public transport and good connections. And I want to invest in that. I do not think that the Netherlands should be in a position to compete with the tax environment. Luxembourg and other countries may be more proficient in this, but I do not think that should be the earning model for the Netherlands for the future. We can spare those mailbox companies as a pain in the tooth. By the way, they leave every time a hare comes over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u80	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u81	So that's a whole different view of society. And that is a good thing, because that is why we are here in politics: to discuss it. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the Department of Defense. The Secretary of Defense constantly says that she needs more money, that she cannot meet NATO standards and so on. You can put up a tree about that, about whether it's necessary for the DOD to need more money. But if you do it the way it has been in recent years, if you give it to Defense while the financial management is at a certain level, then you might as well throw it in the ditch. It just doesn't make any sense. The property is not maintained; it is seen to be worth less. That's where more money goes, and it's gonna be worth less. And what you spend on it, people don't know where it's going. And this has been a problem for years. I call on the Minister to intervene in that too. That's not gonna work itself out there. There is already a structural problem. For the same reason, next year we will have the same kind of example as in the case of public health, which will then be in the defence sector. Mr. Chairman. Something that this time isn't very important is the ICT problems at the Tax Administration. They're a bit named, but they're immense. Computer programs from the 1980s for VAT returns were still in operation. That's not gonna go well forever. It is one of our country's most crucial services. So I ask the Minister and also the Secretary of State, who I believe is responsible for the ICT side, to answer this question. Is that going to be all right, and can it not help to cut these tax regulations? Mr. Chairman. One final point on budgetary policy, as far as I am concerned, is the concerns I have. I also raised this last year, but I am actually considering tabling a motion on this subject this year. This is about the freedom that ministers have to conclude private agreements. I found the agreement on main lines with the NAM to have a huge impact. The Minister for Economic Affairs is allowed to do so; that is legitimate, but it has a huge impact. That's what many billions are all about. No parliamentary debate, no Parliament's budget right, nothing. Should this not be better regulated in the Compatibility Act, so that Parliament also has control over it? This also applies to very large tenders. That freedom is huge. I'll come to a conclusion. The PvdA Group would have liked to see broad prosperity and I have been allowed to sit on that committee of inquiry led by former colleague Grashoff.. was really the basis for the debate we are having today. I also think that what comes out of that is very helpful to base future cabinet policy on. You see inequality growing there. You can see that the educational deficits are increasing. You can see that people are still relatively happy now, but that this can come under pressure if we do not invest enough in society. So I would like us to talk about this next year, with a new cabinet, with a different direction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk of the CDA, for her maiden speech. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I hear Mr. Nijboer talking out of his hands like that, I am very jealous. I hope to be a newcomer in four years' time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In a maiden speech there is room for a personal note according to good use. Dear people, I grew up with the VARA Guide and Pisa. For those younger than me: this was a satirical television programme, made by Henk Spaan and Harry Vermeegen. For those of my age, or perhaps even older, "cup of coffee, glass washer?" And "cold, huh?" His well-known quotes, which you yourself may have used once. I want to talk about the common man. This was also an item in their programs, and they even made a song about him. When I was little, I really had the heartfelt belief that this song was about my father. He liked kale with sausage. He has a daughter and a son and he believed in hard work until you rolled into your bed exhausted at night. He also had shoe size 42. But this ordinary man, our dad, was also very clear. He was the parent and my brother and I were his children. We also knew very well what he expected from us. In that he was also quite spartan. "Can't" doesn't exist, and: trying is fun, but you can still do better. We made mistakes growing up, of course. So we wouldn't have kept those appointments, and most of the time we came home roaring. Our dad looked at us with his blue eyes over his glasses and he said: that hurts, huh, with your head against the wall! "But," he said, "you're a Van Dijk, and a Van Dijk just gets up and wipes the blood off his head." That's what you learned. On that aspect of "knowing what to expect of each other, living together in that way, indeed sometimes making mistakes, but also being transparent about it and getting the space to do better next time I am about to talk about it in this Accountability debate. Back to our dad, the regular guy. The lyrics of song end with: well considered I am unique. He was, and that's every Dutchman; just very special. Those ordinary people, who are just very special: I promise I will work for them in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. This year's debate on responsibility is something different than usual. 2020 didn't start out so crazy at all. 2019 showed positive developments in many areas. This trend seemed to continue in 2020. Then came corona and began a period of crisis management. Because that's where we sat and we're in: a crisis. A health crisis. An economic crisis. But let us not forget: a social crisis. We went from a first to a second lockdown. Shops and restaurants closed. The whole economy had to adapt to the new normal. So is the budget. We are seeing the movements of the huge support packages and expenditure in the areas of EZK, SZW and VWS: results, figures, deficits, EMU debt and so on. All this was dominated by much uncertainty and fear. Within these frameworks, the government and the Chamber acted and made their choices. We've struggled through the year. Fortunately, it seems to be moving in the right direction again. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, two things are important in this review. That is what I want to focus on today in my contribution. The first point is: have we done things right? The second point is: did we do the right thing? The first point: did we do things right? We have a cabinet and a parliament in the Netherlands, each with its own role and responsibility. Of course, that wasn't just a thought. The CDA attaches importance to this rotation and to the core tasks of us as representatives of the people. One of them is: thorough and in-depth control of the government, such as control of the legitimate and effective use of collective resources. Here in The Hague, we have established rules on government spending. Actually, they're very simple in the base. The Minister shall draw up a budget and the Chamber shall approve it. The Court should then be able to check ex post whether the budget has been properly implemented and to give a blow to that effect. The reason for this is that we want and need to be able to justify to the citizens that the money has been well spent. Of course, it is not for nothing that my fellow party members have tabled a motion for the redesign of the National Expenditure Commission. This was also welcomed by the Court of Auditors. We see over the past year that accountability has gone well in a number of areas, but also in a number of areas, as the General Court has established. To be precise, this amounts to EUR 9.1 billion in commitments and EUR 4.3 billion in expenditure. In doing so, we are crossing the 1% tolerance limit on both points. This also has a few causes. First of all, in order to be able to check, the Chamber must be given the right information in time. We understand that, in times of crisis, action can sometimes be taken quickly, but for that we have very clearly Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act. This law allows that, if the situation so requires, expenditure can be made without waiting for the approval of both chambers, provided that the Chambers are informed of such a decision. The Court of Auditors has found that this has not been done in several situations. As a result, illegal situations have arisen, particularly in the case of the corona crisis measures, but also in the case of the Catshuis scheme for disabled parents. At the same time as the letter to the Chambers, the Secretary of State communicates via social media that all the injured would receive a compensation of €30,000, without distinction. And also that the implementation of this scheme would start immediately. And now, in 2021, we see similar communication about the debt take-over regime. We do not want to say that we do not think that anything should be done in this area, but we believe that the process should be carried through correctly. A citizen must be able to rely on the legality of a member of the board's commitments without the Chamber being called upon to act. Mr. Chairman. This is really an important point for the CDA. There will often be good reasons to deviate from spending rules, but we must ensure that this way of working becomes normal. Because it is precisely in crisis time, when a lot of money is spent quickly, that it is extremely important that we should be able to answer to the citizens in the near future. We therefore want the Minister to be ultimately responsible for the expenditure of the State to improve this information. If it's as simple as sending a note, we want this to happen by default. Should the practice prove more complex, we would like to see a crisis protocol on the provision of information to the Court on expenditure under Article 2.27. How does the Minister see this? Does he also think that the Chamber should be taken more seriously in its budget law and control role? If so, how are you going to do that? I'd like a response. Second. In order to be able to check properly, the Empire's accounts must be accurate. In other words, the insight must be in order. Now we do not want to bring up every receipt because this is the rule. The Chamber has indeed called for speed. We would also have found something if the administration had supplied the necessary ventilation equipment a day later to our hospitals. However, we also see the consequences if we do not have information or leave the financial administration to be desired. This means that we cannot check afterwards whether expenditure has been properly carried out. Then we cannot check whether there has been fraud with expenditure. Then we do not know whether sufficient monitoring has been carried out, because the information is missing. How, then, can a citizen trust that Community money is handled wisely and carefully? So we need to learn from this for the future. This is not the first crisis and it will certainly not be the last. Here too, we ask the Minister to come up with a plan to improve financial management, which is lacking in several departments. We would like a state-wide analysis of the financial management departments within the different departments, so that we know where deficits are and the departments can learn from each other, because many things are also going well. We would then like to receive a comparison of these results and comprehensive recommendations. Is the Minister really prepared to take a firm step forward here? A third point is the supervisory role of the Minister. The Court of Auditors has noted shortcomings in a number of areas. Firstly, the Minister should have agreed to the granting of loans and guarantees as part of the aid measures before the Council of Ministers decides on them. However, this has only happened in 10 of the 27 cases. The Court of Auditors also considers that the Minister should have monitored compliance with rules on tax arrangements and that he could have acted earlier in financial management at the VWS Ministry. How does the Minister see these shortcomings? Can he explain why these originated and what lessons he draws from them? Secondly, have we done things right? This year CBS has again published the Monitor Brede Welvaart. In it we see that we live in a beautiful country, a country where people are actually quite happy. Our parents have left a legacy of prosperity, care, renewal and freedom. And even after a major crisis, the Netherlands appears to have resilience. Millions of Dutch people, parents, entrepreneurs, nurses, teachers, police officers, farmers and scientists have contributed to this. The question is, what do we do with that inheritance? Yesterday's solutions are not tomorrow's answers. We see an increasing confidence of people in each other in the monitor. We also see relatively equal prosperity and even an increase in material prosperity. And we see a highly developed knowledge and innovation economy. However, we also see important negative trends, for example in the field of health....................................................................................................................... The proportion of households living on long-term low incomes has also increased dramatically. The working poor is really a serious focus for the coming years. Furthermore, we see once again that this year there has been a clear decline in social contacts with family, friends, neighbours and volunteering. Now that is not so strange in corona time, were it not that this falling trend has been perceptible since 2013. According to the OECD, social cohesion is essential for the proper functioning of society, in which family, neighbors, friends, associations and assistance and support form the basis. As has been stressed on many occasions, it is very important for my group to promote this coherence, by supporting volunteering, family care and association life. We ask the Prime Minister what he thinks is causing this trendal decline, but above all how he sees it in order to move it in the right direction. Another point from the Monitor Brede Prosperity: the affordability of homes is under increasing pressure. House prices, housing prices, continue to rise and we see an increase in the percentage of the population that lived too small in 2020. The mortgage per household is growing and there are concerns about the debt position of households to the future. How do we prove that all the above findings are linked to policies and expenditure? How can we see whether what we are doing and what we are spending money on is contributing to the positive impact of these broad welfare indicators? Only then will we know whether we are doing the right things now, but also towards the future. Can social objectives and impacts be added as a separate paragraph to the explanatory memorandum, such as in the framework of the pilots with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act? In the context of checking whether we are doing the right things, the Court of Auditors concludes in the Insight of Quality report that this really still deserves time and attention. As far as we are concerned, the conclusion is that we need to improve the translation of decisions, in particular into measurable objectives. If this becomes the standard, and we really do understand that this is not possible everywhere one-on-one, a better evaluation of effectiveness can also take place. Can the Minister indicate what possibilities he sees for improvement? To this end, the General Court has been particularly critical of the proliferation of tax regimes, which we share. Is the Minister prepared to launch a comprehensive review of the current tax arrangements? How much do they cost? What's in it for them? And are they effective? In doing so, we believe it is important to involve users, our citizens and our businesses, so that we can also get a stronger picture from the ground up of the rules, where the real problems lie and how we can solve them. Some schemes look very nice on paper and come from a model, but in practice they do not work or do not have the right effect. Finally. Back to our dad, our dad. Sometimes things change in life. Then something comes along that you could never have thought of in the front. I think Corona is a very clear example of this. Then we have to act differently than we thought of and agreed on beforehand. And that's not even so bad. As long as we are transparent and open about that at the front, we proactively inform each other and finally do things better together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you, Mrs Van Dijk. Also my congratulations to you for your very beautiful, personal maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u85	I propose that we suspend until 2.15 p.m., but first we congratulate Mr Heinen and Mrs Inge van Dijk for their maiden speeches. So it is good for them to come forward. I would ask you to at least take account of the 1.5 metres. If you stand here, Mrs. Inge van Dijk and Mr. Heinen, then everyone can walk by and give the congratulations. I shall at least suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m., including lunch break.
