ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome the Minister. We are going to start a two-minute debate on a new phenomenon in this new Chamber on the Decision of Final Examinations 2021 and the cabinet response to the motions on further special education examinations. I will be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66. I hear saying: that's always wise. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I stand here with a heavy heart, because as you may recall from the previous period, I have tabled two motions on the vso: one on an extra rematch and the other on extending the thumb regulation by one year. These motions have both been adopted with broad support in this Chamber, but they have not been carried out. We've all been able to see the letter. There are capacity reasons, implementation reasons, in particular for not granting that re-launch. I'm not here to retable motions, because I've already filed them. They've already been hired. I am standing here, perhaps for the last time, perhaps on the one-after-last occasion, to call on the Minister to look for alternatives to re-launch, because of course there are. They were also considered at the time for regular secondary education. I really want to ask the Minister to take another look at that. I know he's being given options from all sides. That's one. Let's have this vulnerable group somehow and how we do it, I don't care about those rematches. The second concerns the thumb control. A thumb control for the certificate students in particular is of course only useful if you can put that thumb somewhere on such a result in several years' time. That is why, in my view, we should decide to extend the thumb regulation for a year now. That's what the motion said. I see no reason why the Minister should not decide this now. We're a room full swing now. We made that statement. It is a good habit here, I would say: more than ever, as a Chamber, we are showing what we stand for. That's what we showed you. Then it's up to the Cabinet to do that. So on that point, too, I would like to ask the Minister once again to do so now. There can be no objection to that. It's a decision we can just make today. I would like to give those two things to the Minister again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I wholeheartedly endorse what Mr Van Meenen said. It is not for nothing that this Chamber has twice said that something must be done for that group in secondary special education. As Mr Van Meenen pointed out, we do not hang very heavily on the way. We simply want more opportunities to be offered, but we see that every time the suggestions are made and even when a majority of the Chamber votes in favour of one of these suggestions, it does not happen in the end. Where I can understand a lot of practical concerns, I still hear stories from, for example, examiners in secondary special education who say: I have not been asked at all whether I can help to facilitate a second round of re-launching. Then we wonder what all these professions and apples have looked like. If the Chamber repeatedly says "make it possible" and if the Minister says "it can't" how do we know if not every examiner is asked to do so? Secondly, there is another proposal to see what we can do to give the students a little support. That's what we talked about last year. It didn't work out then. That is the role of the mentor who is allowed to join the exam. Of course, the examiner is always the one who says what should and should not be, but we have seen that there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether a mentor should or should not say anything or that he should only verbatim repeat what has happened. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mentor or confidant may attend the oral examination of pupils from special secondary education, but may only reassure the candidate for examination;]] [[Whereas pupils from special secondary education should not be at risk of getting a heavier examination programme than other students taking the exams;]] [[invites the Government to allow the mentor or confidant to repeat examination questions and/or to make an illuminating remark during the oral examination in the secondary special education, in which the examiner monitors the integrity of the examination as an expert,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld, Mr De Hoop and Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-456]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have two questions on the elaboration of two motions previously adopted. In the first motion we asked to ensure that students can complete the current training, even if they are over 18 or 20 years of age. The Minister replied that the decision to extend or not extend a declaration of admissibility is made on the basis of the student's development perspective. But there are also students who we have talked about more often, who will never pass a diploma. For example, students with Down syndrome are involved. They will sometimes never get a diploma or a paid job, but often benefit from longer education, for example because they learn to speak better. If they learn that better, it will benefit them for the rest of their lives. I would like to ask the Minister about this group of children in the context of the answers he gave. In the second motion we submitted, we asked to look at the availability of examiners and the possibilities to offer a rematch to the candidate for whom obtaining certificates is necessary because of the further education or age. The Minister writes that he will inform the Chamber after the summer if this is possible. He says that this is only possible if the group is very small. But then I would like to ask the Minister: how small is "very small"? I understand that this is a performance issue, but it does feel a bit arbitrary that the ability to carry out that motion depends on the size of the group. I would like to ask the Minister to answer that question. Mr. Chairman. Then we have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many traineeships and work experience places for pupils in special education have not been continued by the corona measures;]] [[Whereas the acquisition of practical experience is essential for students following a labour market-oriented learning path;]] [[Whereas additional time may be helpful for pupils who wish to do so;]] [[Whereas a re-indication application rarely leads to a rejection, but requires an irresponsible time investment for the behavior experts of specialized education at this time;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from re-indications of already existing declarations of admissibility, so that pupils wishing to complete the school year are given the opportunity to complete the school year and schools are not charged with additional administration in the context of the Declaration of Admissibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint and Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-457]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am in good company here, with the previous speakers as true experts in this area. It is a whole new policy area for me, but I am delighted to be here this afternoon. I've been well prepared for this. I have heard good initiatives from the Minister to adapt the Decision of Final Examinations 2021 in such a way as to enable as many secondary pupils as possible to obtain their diploma in these difficult circumstances, without prejudice to that. That also seems very important to me. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear statement that the motion is not feasible, however regrettable it may be. She's not feasible, so I'm gonna leave it at that. In this context, I would like to ask one question. I saw that the Minister evaluates the entire campaign and the results of the exams become known. Is it possible to give insight into the results of the final examinations of the secondary school students in 2021 and 2020, which was also a corona year and also to look back at 2019 and 2018? Then we have a slightly broader perspective: how do these numbers relate to each other? Perhaps this has already been used. Then I dedicate it to my inexperience. Otherwise, I would very much like to hear it from the Minister; I would also like to hear it in good time, so that we can make our efforts in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	First of all, welcome behind the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mrs Michon rightly points out the importance of feasibility. I understand. You can have a whole discussion about whether or not this is the case in this case, but I understand the reasoning. But me and others have indicated that the Minister could also look at alternatives. In the end, we are not talking about the means, but about the purpose, which is to give these vulnerable students an additional chance, who may have been affected more than any other student by corona. That puts them at risk of graduating. Is the VVD prepared to ask the Minister to look at alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	I have read very well in the Minister's documents that this decision must be taken before 16 April in order to allow it to enter into force in good time. So the time he has left is short. If you had these alternatives, I would also like to invite you to give them to this Minister by way of motion. You are now asking the Minister a rather open question, namely to reconsider alternatives. I'm also curious to see what his reaction to that is. If these are realistic, viable alternatives, then my group is prepared to look at them, but I have not yet seen a motion from your group on what would be a realistic alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	That's right, but we have this debate for a reason. We can table a motion on every point on which we find something, but I do not and I do not think the VVD Group will. My question is whether the VVD Group is prepared to accept alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	I await the Minister's response to your question. And then we weigh that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you. I call Mr De Hoop of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. School must be fine, safe and cheerful for every child, and that must not be less true in secondary special education. The best education with the right support, where everyone's talent is done and every child can move on to further education. Especially when it comes to the examination, that support is crucial. The PvdA therefore finds it incomprehensible that the Minister does not want to carry out the motions that have been passed which could have been put forward for this purpose. Too easily the Minister addresses the implementation problems at the College for Keys and Exams. We have an expression in Friesland: "As it just kin sa't it moat, then moat it mar sa't it kin." We need to look at alternatives. The PvdA wholeheartedly supports Mr Van Meenen's appeal and we are also co-author of Mr Kwint's motion. In addition, the Minister makes the problems bigger rather than smaller by talking about all state examination candidates, while the sub-certificate candidates from secondary education need specific tailor-made work. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pupils in secondary special education are subject to restrictions;]] [[Considers that they need more adapted examinations and exceptions that do not necessarily apply to other State examination candidates;]] [[calls on the Government to do better justice to the diversity within the State Examination Candidate Group and to inform the Chamber of how it fills this out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-458]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. I still have one motion to make, but I can get started. First of all, I would like to congratulate all Members of Parliament who have been elected, in particular those who have been elected for the first time. Mrs Michon and Mr De Hoop, I do not know if this was your maiden performance in this Chamber, but I am very happy to see you actively here as well. I shall start directly with the questions put by Mr Van Meenen, who indicated that he had a heavy heart. I recognize that, because I have it myself. We discussed with each other the changes we wanted to make for the exams, both for the regular exams and for the state exams. You know that my commitment was to treat all pupils equally. In the end, as I have indicated in general terms in your direction, this was also the reason why we did not allow another re-launch, in addition to the additional re-launch that was already there. Adding one more was a request from the pupils in particular. Those who should take state examinations would not be able to make use of them, at least not before the end of the course year. We didn't think it was right. We wanted them to have the same opportunities to get their degree in this course year. In the end, that is why the thumb regulation has been introduced. That thumbs-up is therefore also applicable to those who take a diploma in State examinations, including those who do so by means of sub-certificates. So the commitment has been from the very beginning to treat all students, including the students of the vso, equally. This has also been done on the basis of the proposals that were put forward. In general consultation, the request was raised to include those who will be awarded partial certificates and not to offer rematches for the diploma. As you know, I have been in close contact with the implementation organisation in order to know whether that was feasible. A maximum effort of our entire exam chain, including the execution organisation, is already required at this time with all the adjustments that have been made. This should be added to the list. In the end, they indicated that they can't do that. You know that, because you received their letter. In general terms, however, you have once again referred to me the urgent request and even underlined it with a motion which I believe was adopted the same day or a day later. Then we came into contact again, of course also with the implementation organisation, to see again whether it was still possible to do so. If you turn everything around, there'll be a lot of rolling out. And once again, you have also seen the written report on this, which was their response: we simply cannot do this, because the numbers are too large. We're talking about about about 6,000 additional students who might qualify for such a rematch. The number that goes before the diploma is a little less than 3,000, so that's another 6,000. This is simply not true of the number of people available; more have been added, because recruitment has continued in the past year. Considering everything, that was also the reason for me not to ask them at the end of the day. You know that we must also look carefully at what is or is not possible in the implementation. This applies, of course, not only to pupils who do not go for a diploma, but who also finish courses in the state exams, but also to pupils in regular education. There too there are students who, sometimes even in the pre-graduate year, complete one or even several courses. The same applies to them, so they are dealt with in the same way again, so that they do not have any additional provisions, because we also want to draw one very clear line in that respect. Has there been any consideration of alternatives? Of course. That's what we've been talking about. You know that the alternatives that have been offered to us have gone a long way, for example to put the thumbs-down on the core subjects, not one year but two years. Such proposals have been made to us. There was support, indeed. Try to make sure as soon as possible that also the part of the state exam that concerns the vso... That's a decent group. Ensure that they can also make use of all support provided. You know that 1 March the support also started digitally and that there has been a very conscious and careful look at whether it is accessible to everyone, also for students who are in the vso. The answer to that is yes. They can also make use of it. In the written answers, you have already read the extent to which they are used. That is what has happened over the past few weeks. You have, of course, just increased these answers. So that's a support we're also offering. With regard to moving the thumb regulation to next year, I indicated that we now need to start preparations for the Final Examination Decision 2022. Those preparations are now also starting. In the coming weeks we will receive further information on this, including the tests to be taken now. They will of course be included. Mr Van Meenen's motion, which will take place next year, will, of course, be part of that, including the considerations that must then be made. I will outline to you before the summer the whole route in which we are sitting, because a general measure of governance will have to be taken. In the end, we also need a new beating-bag scheme. We'll take this motion with us. It will then have to be considered in full that the value of the diplomas will be identical for all pupils, both in private and in regular education, and that there will be equality of law with regard to the additional possibilities for a new examination decision in a year to come. I will return to your Chamber for that, so you are there to confirm the choices that will be made in it. We'll do that soon. Normally, we don't do that until the calendar year in which the exams are taken. I or else my successor will try to make arrangements with you on this subject this calendar year. Once again, Mr Van Meenen's motion is one of those.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	We need to listen carefully to what the Minister says. I hear the same story about the rematches, so I'm gonna stop talking about it. There's another motion specifically for the vso. Well, I guess I'll just stick with that. Now let's talk about thumb control. If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says that the motion adopted by the Chamber is taken into account and that we are still hearing about it. I don't think you should do that with a chamber motion. That motion has been adopted and I think it should simply be part of the decisions that the Minister is now taking. My question is why it isn't. How am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	I have just indicated that this motion, therefore, is part of my view that I have taken that word literally in the mouth of the considerations that we then have to make with each other in relation to a new examination decision that needs to be prepared. That is a general measure of governance. We need a new one for the regular exams and for the state exams. I'll take this motion with me. I have made one comment which is important in itself, also from the responsibility I have for the diplomas and the system. The diplomas must be the same for all pupils. Of course, students are entitled to this: that they receive the same degree as the others. If we are to change the beating-pocket regime, to which your motion expressly requests, we must also monitor the equality of the pupils who are in other places. That's the trade-off we have to make. That's what we'll discuss with each other. Again, you are also there to assess whether it meets your commitment to do something extra for these students.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	This doesn't sound like "we're going to carry out the motion, and we're taking it with us, not in the examination scheme, but in the examination scheme." That's what I want to hear. There are all kinds of complicated things. But the starting point is she's being taken. I just don't hear the Minister say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	At the time when we are going to change the bag-slag scheme for next year, so for the students who are going to take the exam next year, this is part of it. We will have to take a broad look at whether we are also doing justice to the other students who are going to take the exam next year. There should be no legal inequality between what I call the extra facilities that we offer students, and the pocket-coating scheme that would apply to them in non-corona time. That could literally be the execution of your motion. It could also be that, on the basis of the information we get from the exams in the coming period, other options might also reflect the commitment that is made for this. That will really have to be assessed at a later stage, namely at the time when we are going to take final decisions on the examination provisions for 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr Van Meenen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	Let's just say, in the context of power and counterpower, we hear nothing else all day long, for once, assuming that the Chamber itself has already taken that consideration and said, "No, this should become part of the examination scheme. We have now taken that decision, and that is what the Minister is going to do." I hear again a huge story about considerations, equality and this and that, as if we can't think of all that here. No, the Court's conclusion has been: it has to be done. Now I'm gonna tell the Minister, for the last time, just do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	I think I've been clear about the final consideration that you need to make broad. Of course, for this part, it's clear what the Chamber wants. There is no doubt about that. I have also indicated to you that this motion will be part of the considerations that need to be made. But if you're going to adjust the bag-layering scheme, you're also going to have to do justice to all students regarding what you're offering them that exceeds what you're asking them to do from the normal bag-layering scheme. That's the trade-off we're facing. I will also share this with you in full transparency and submit it to you. Then you can rest assured that there will be movement. I think the Chamber has been very clear about this: you want something to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	That term "pocket-coating" is stuck with me. That's a complicated term. I asked one question in my term. I hope you'll take it with you in this preparation. I mean the quantitative figures of the number of successful or unsuccessful in the years 2021 to, looking back, 2018. This also allows you to compare what the arrangements we have now established with each other, and what the differences are with the years we didn't have corona. I believe that these quantitative figures are also below your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	I had not yet got to that question, but that is indeed an important question, also in the context of "how do we get out of this corona time?" Let us hope that this will be the last time that the exams will have to be discussed and adapted in this way with regard to the pocket-coating scheme, a term which is very common in the education system which is then in office. The CvTE, the execution organisation and the Cito are currently investigating the exams 2015 to 2019, i.e. before the corona time. I will make sure that this information is present and can be included in the deliberations. The same applies to the comparison between what happened in the corona time and before. Mr. Chairman. In his motion in part No. 456 asks Mr Kwint whether the mentor may go further than is present and ask questions as asked by the examiner. You know that we have gone very far in the space we have offered our own teachers. Communication to schools and students on how this teacher can be used has continued, also on the basis of your questions in general consultation. The first time we did this, we noticed that it did not work everywhere. There is a limit to what a teacher can do in such an exam. He's not the examiner. He is the face and the person to whom the student is addressed, if the student appreciates it. That's a choice. It can be very trusting, even when it comes to the place where the exams are taken. They are sometimes very special places, which give the students the peace to do well. Such a mentor should not go beyond the questions asked by the examiner to further translate into the student. He can't add his own business to it. That's the line there is. In that respect, I must discourage the motion, which goes just beyond the position of the person concerned. Again, he's not an examiner. The exams must be taken in a similar manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yeah, but then we'll be back to last year's discussion. The Minister says we've gone very far. Someone who is present in space and who can literally repeat what has already been said, I do not think goes very far, quite frankly. What is at issue here is that a mentor, as the minister rightly says, is also a trusting figure and that sometimes, because he knows the student well, by just using a different term... all of this happens under the supervision of the examiner, who may say at any time "Ho, wait! No, we're not gonna do this." That examiner shall monitor the integrity of the examination. If we're all upset that it's hard for vso students to pass their exams this year, then this is a very small step, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	It is still very important that we want all pupils to receive an equivalent diploma and that oral examinations are taken by examiners who are also trained and qualified to do so. That's always been the line. We have moved on, because we noticed that the tension of this corona time for students was quite exciting to be confronted with a stranger, even though those examiners were very well trained. I only call him "strange" for a moment, although sometimes there was even a prior acquaintance. For that reason, we have the addition that there may be a teacher of our own. If it is really necessary, it may also ask the questions the examiner asks. That's really the maximum of how far we can go within the limits we maintain for taking exams. This is just getting over that. Well, that's why I'm gonna have to draw a line here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	This motion is dissuaded. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	Then why is this getting over it? It is explicitly stated that the examiner is doing a great job of preparing students for such an examination with an examiner, up to and including free time encounters, to ensure integrity. It's okay to repeat. A small clarifying remark may be made. Why? Because such a teacher, who has taught a child for years, knows: he really knows this, but now something is going on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr. Kwint, your point is clear. One more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	If my point is clear, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	But it's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. I understand very well what Mr Kwint means. Imagine the emergence of a situation in which such a lecturer, because it is not quite clear 'Yes, I may ask a clarifying question or clarify something', goes beyond what the examiner considers acceptable. Then there is also a very annoying situation for the student. So it's just very important that we be very clear. It's okay, we're okay with it, we're okay with all the room for that, we're okay with the questions being repeated, but that's the border. Then it is clear to everyone, including the teachers present at those exams, what their role is. That is the way in which we are now communicating towards the schools, so that there is no ambiguity about the presence of this teacher in the taking of teachers trained for these examinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mrs. Simons, I'll see you at the interrupting microphone. For your information, we have agreed in the new Rules of Procedure that people who have not taken part in the debate should not ask questions either. But if everyone here in the Chamber finds the agreement that you are asking your question, then that is possible. I don't see people going on the barricades, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you for this coulance, Mr. Chairman. From now on, I will abide by the new Rules of Procedure. I would like to take up the questions raised by Mr Kwint, because I hear the Minister's answers, based on the possibilities or inability of examiners and teachers, but not from the student who is there at the time to get that diploma to the best of his ability. I hear a lot of technical reasons now, but what does this mean for the students, who may or may not have the chance to ask such a clear question, to pass their diploma?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	It is precisely from the students' perspective that we have undertaken to create the space for our own teachers to be included and that our own teachers may even repeat the questions, because that will not apply to the students. We are trying to create the right atmosphere for them. What is important, of course, is that these pupils are entitled to a full degree, a diploma as others do. It is important that we monitor very closely what the powers of the examiners are, and that those who have been trained to do so and who have also been given the powers to take the test can therefore take responsibility for these students. With support, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mrs Westerveld, do you also have a question on this point? Because I would actually like to move on to the next motion and a ruling on it. Or do you have another point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	I have a new point. That's also about this motion, which I'm also under. We had this discussion last year. I would like to give the Minister one more thing, namely that we are very often inclined to reason from the average pupil. These are very special students, with very special qualities, but they sometimes learn in a different way. That is exactly why this motion calls for pupils not to be addressed in the content, but in the way they learn and in the way they ask questions. I would like to pass on that point to the Minister, because I often find that we may be starting from how we went to school ourselves. I am not saying that the Minister does, but that is often the way we deal with it, while these students sometimes learn in a different way. Let's give it ample space for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	We are aware of that. Therefore, these examiners are also trained for a very long and long time. Even if they've done it a year earlier, they'll have to go back to training the following year. There are a lot of places to choose from. Let me give you one example. There was even an exam in a horse stable once, because that was a place where someone felt nice and pleasant. In other words, the student is being looked at very carefully. But this student also has the right to a full degree, according to the standards on which the diploma is assessed. I think it is very nice that we are implementing these additions, but you must recognise that there is once again a limit to what you may and may not ask in them, otherwise you will be undermining the diploma. Of course, that doesn't help the student either. It is really important to stress that once again. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Westerveld asked to refrain from re-indications. I would ask you to hold this motion because we are still talking to the representatives of education about the choices that we want to make in it. That is because we want to give parents and students the opportunity to re-indicate themselves if they want to. Otherwise, you'd remember them completely. I also realize that this will not go for everyone, so we are working to fill that out as lightly as possible, just to put it bluntly. I therefore ask you to hold this motion. I promise you that we will try to inform you before the May holidays about the outcome of the talks that are currently underway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	Are you prepared to do that, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	If, of course, we can quickly be informed before the May holiday, then that seems very...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	We are doing everything we can to achieve that, because we understand that people want to be clear quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (31289, No. 457). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	That was my point. I do have one more question, because the Minister says that it also deprives people who do want a re-indication of the possibility, but it is precisely in the motion that we write that it concerns students who want it. We don't say anywhere: you can't have another re-indication made. In this motion we say above all: do not do it by default with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	That's what the conversations are about right now. I will inform you about this before the May holidays. Perhaps that coincides perfectly with what you are asking for in this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then there was one more question from Mrs Westerveld concerning the vso. This concerns staying longer in school from 18 to 20-year-olds. We've had that discussion before. The law provides the room for pupils who are also literally listed in the law "to obtain an exemption in the case of further education and employment opportunities." They may use them until they reach the age of 20 to complete their training. In the case of students who do not need to be longer for work or for further training, there is simply a question of whether there is a suitable place for them to move on. That's what those two years are for. 18 years is usually the limit, because one law: they no longer go for work and no longer for further training. Then a good follow-up place is sought where hopefully they can be safe and beautiful for years. That's how we settled it in the law. If you would like to do so otherwise, wide, for everyone, then the law should be amended accordingly. You know I'm no longer qualified to take all of that down right now. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr De Hoop's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yeah, the motion to part No. 458 by Mr De Hoop, in conclusion. Two things. First of all, we did not accept this easily, absolutely not. This has been talked about so intensively. We fought so hard for it, even when we realized the changes to the exam decision for this year, that the vso-students could fully go along with it. Only, we did cross borders; that's right. However, these limits apply not only to students of higher education; they apply to all pupils of State examinations, including those who do not qualify for a diploma in mainstream education. I was in the process of taking that course to continue to look more broadly at how we deal with the exams in vso. We see that the enormous pressure they put on the state exams is not conducive to dealing with this in a good way for these students. That's still going on right now. If I may understand your motion in such a way that you underline that we must once again talk separately about exams, the vso and the manner in which those exams are to be taken, then I am prepared to take it further in that context. Then I can give this motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	The essence of this motion is that I often hear the Minister say: we want to ensure equality between the various state examination candidates. I think it is important to recognise that equality is not present at the moment. Those equal monks aren't here. Those students in special education are simply suffering from certain limitations that other candidates do not have. That is why we must look at other possibilities in this respect. I believe that this is also the willingness shown by the Minister. In that sense, I'm fine with it. But it really matters to me, namely that we recognise that there is really a big difference and that it is not "equal monks, equal hoods" at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	For the sake of clarity, these students do want a diploma that has the same value as a VMBO, HAVO or VWO diploma that is awarded in other places. That's the tension field we're in. That is also why we are doing a lot for them in addition. Because we know they need it. But in the end, we do want them to have an equivalent degree. If you agree, it is important to emphasise that the commitment is to obtain an equivalent degree, with the same value as diplomas awarded to other pupils. They have a right to that. Is that what you're trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	Yeah, that's definitely what I'm trying to do. In that field of tension, I'd be happy to look with you, so here's to it. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. In this way explained I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this two-minute debate. Oh, there's another question from Mrs Westerveld. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	I asked a question about students who go for a certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mrs Westerveld once tabled a motion on that. There was never any record of what reason students were getting certificates. We are now in the process of registering this year. Don't ask me to include it in numbers. The stakes are simply that we are really going to make a maximum effort to see if with the capacity available and possibly a little more can be expanded, it is possible to offer a rematch for the students who go for further training. I will inform you about this after the summer. Then, of course, we've processed those figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this two-minute debate on the Final Examination Decision 2021.
