ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the own-initiative proposal 35296, Law on the Enforcement of Cracking Ban. We now need the response of the initiators and the minister in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u2	I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u3	Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon. You hear my voice. There's a little virus going through the family with us. That's what happens with four little kids. A majority has been tested. Me too yesterday. The results are all negative. Hooray! First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contribution. I will start my contribution with an introduction and then deal specifically with the blocks of workload, time savings and the position of the owner and how the squatters have been associated with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u4	May I ask Members to continue the talks outside? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u5	I'm standing here as Speaker Wonen. I shall therefore, above all, fly into the bill from that side. Mrs Van Toorenburg is here as spokesman for Justice and Security and will fly it from that side. So we're treating both these cubes, but from a different angle. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Initiative Law Enforcement Cracking Ban. Since 2010 it is forbidden to crack a house in the Netherlands. So it's illegal to take someone's house. That makes perfect sense. In 2017 I became a member of the Lower House. As spokesperson Wonen, I quickly ran into cracks. For although the ban has been in force since 2010, there has been a loophole in the law where squatters have subsequently dug in, with all the consequences of that. This initiative law is not something of the past, but it is a long process. In 2018, we had a debate in the House of Representatives about squatters who had cracked more than twenty social rental homes in Amsterdam. Then, as it turns out, they were allowed to stay in those social housing for eight weeks. This was a slap in the face for anyone who's been on a waiting list for years. During this debate, Mrs Van Toorenburg and I tabled the motion which states that the ban on cracking has been undermined and calls for the ban on cracking to be restored. The House of Representatives adopted this motion on 22 May 2018. Then six months later, I believe, after the squat of more than twenty social rental homes in Amsterdam, the fort near Velsen was cracked. This is a unique piece of UNESCO World Heritage in the Netherlands. And what's pale? Once again, squatters were allowed to stay in that world heritage for eight weeks. Then we came to the conclusion that legislation needs to be improved in order to combat this criminal housing model. The cracking isn't something I only know from the paper. A friend of mine's neighbors had a place cracked last year. Such a thing leaves not only the owner in despair and with a sense of impotence, but the whole neighborhood. Is there any maintenance? Do we have to wait eight weeks? Up to eight weeks it could take squatters to get out of your building again. Eight weeks of nuisance and damage. Eight weeks of running costs. It rightly separates feelings from desperation and impotence. As a politician, we must have an answer to this. It is therefore necessary to stop this criminal housing model, because that is what it is. Unfortunately, this story is no exception. It is not an incident policy; it is a structural problem. Unfortunately, the ban on cracking is still not being enforced enough. Because it takes a long time for a judge to confirm that they have to get out. This makes it attractive for many to stay in someone else's house. They often do this for eight weeks, to continue after eight weeks, hunting for a new house, but not after leaving the previous house in ruins. This housing model needs to be broken. The fewer crimes the better. Because that is what we are talking about today: fighting crime. Of course, we have also looked at the criticisms of our legislative proposal. The D.A.'s afraid of extra files. But that will not be the case. In fact, things are relatively simple in nature. The situation is quite clear. There's a report, an owner, a building and a group of squatters. In the long term, there will eventually be even fewer files, because cracking does not pay any more. This initiative law by Mrs Van Toorenburg and myself puts an end to squatting as a housing model. This law will allow squatters to be deported within a few days. This puts an end to this housing model. Cracking will no longer be attractive and this will end in the relatively short term. That is precisely why this bill is so important. I'll go through the blocks of questions now. The first block is workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u6	Can you tell me how many cubes you have and what they are called?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u7	I have four blocks: workload, time savings, position owner and the way the squatters have been associated with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u9	The block of work load. Several parties have asked about the impact of the legislative proposal on the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u10	Before you start with the cubes, I would like to ask you a question as initiator. You have repeated several times that a squatter may remain in a building for eight weeks and that the bill provides for a solution within a few days. I have already put my question to Mr Doornhof today, but he referred me to you, so now I'm putting it to you too. We hear from all those involved in this dossier, including the prosecution and the judiciary, that in practice it does not take eight weeks, but two to three weeks because policy agreements have been reached. They say unanimously that this proposal will also take two to three weeks. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u11	That's my second block, the block about time savings. I'd like to go into it, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u12	I'd like that. I'll just wait and see. But since you have said a number of times that it will be eight weeks from now, I assume that you have not indicated any time savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u13	I'm gonna move on to the workload block, Mr. Chairman. Several parties have asked about the impact of this bill on the workload. I'd like to point that out. It's usually clear. Last year, Amsterdam was evacuated in all cases. Sometimes there are difficult cases, such as in Tilburg where recently no one was evacuated because of corona. Our own estimate is that a year earlier this could have just been cleared out. We expect that a number of cases which, in the current procedure before the court hearing, will be withdrawn will probably be brought before the judge in the new procedure. On the basis of figures from the Public Prosecutor, this would be 22 additional cases in 2019 and 33 additional cases in 2018. In addition, there are dozens of emergency expulsions every year. Some of this will be handled through the mayor. Another part will be dealt with through the new emergency expulsion procedure. I would also like to point out that it is not the case that there is no dossier at all now. The D.A. can't carry out emergency evacuations now if there's no ground for that. The squatter can then go to the judge. I regret that the experts' meeting did not ask the public prosecutor and the case-law as to what such a dossier would look like. The answer would have been simple. 'Cause what's in the file? The declaration, who the owner is, whether the owner is actually the owner of the property and that there is a group of squatters in it. That's all there is in a file like that. I am also sorry that no question has been asked as to which file will be sent to the Judge Commissioner. One thing will be added, namely the hearing of the squatters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u14	The author actually repeated the sentences on the additional items in the note following the report: there would be 22 additional plenary sessions in 2019 and 33 additional plenary sessions in 2018. I asked a specific question about this. Do I understand that the figures you mention refer to the interim proceedings which have been withdrawn in the past? And you're counting it now? That's not a good comparison, is it? I calculated that you're talking about 80 squatting cases in a year in the Amsterdam region. All of these will now be submitted to the Judge Commissioner. Isn't that a lot more than the 22 and 33 extra sessions you call?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u15	We have based ourselves on national figures from the Council of Justice. The figures to which the SGP Group refers are the figures that were rightly presented at the expert meeting and which relate to Amsterdam. Can I peel that off? Of those 80 squat cases a year, which indeed took place in Amsterdam, an interim action was announced in an average of 24 cases. Five of them were the subject of interim proceedings and nineteen of them were withdrawn just before the hearing of the interim proceedings. So we had a total of 80 cases per year in Amsterdam. Twenty-four of them have been notified of interim measures. That went on five times and not nineteen times. I hope that puts the figures I have presented here in perspective. Because these are about Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u16	Clear. But of course it means, drawing the line from the past, that you are now going to have an rc session 80 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u17	No, no, no. Cracking cases are solved in a lot of ways. One is "in the act." The others are: by the mayor in the event of the disturbance of public order, by the mayor in the event of the forsaking of danger and through the OM emergency evacuation. Then we've got another one, and that's the interrogation. There are really five different ways to solve a squat. This initiative law ensures that the latter is taken into account, so that we shorten the procedure for interim measures. We're not talking about the 80 that's going to sit at the rc. There are an average of 24 cases a year in Amsterdam where an interim notice has been announced. Of these, five went on a year. Nineteen of them didn't go through. A large number of these nineteen, or all those nineteen, will be present in the court commissioner in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u18	I actually have the idea that the question is how often it is cracked. Because in all cases where there is crackdown and there is no "death" there will still have to be a hearing at the rc. It is a bit tricky with figures, but does the initiator now agree with Mr Van Dijk and I that there will always have to be an authorisation, and so there will be a rc-session, in all cases where there is no 'death'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u19	No. Again, there are several ways to solve a squat. That is indeed what the Party for Animals indicates. One of them is indeed "in the act," but there are still some cases between the "death" and the interim proceedings. That's a mayor who can evacuate on the basis of public disorder; that doesn't have to go past the rc. The mayor can also evacuate on the basis of danger; that doesn't have to go past the rc. The OM emergency procedure will have to go through the rc in an emergency. And then, of course, you've got the interim injunction; that's gonna go by the rc later. It is not the case that all these 80 cases a year in Amsterdam, which you have heard in the expert meeting, all have to go to the rc. My estimate, our estimate, is that in the short term, the five cases per year that are now there will be a maximum of 24. We are convinced that this breaks through the criminal housing model and that you end up going to far less cases than those 80 and 24 a year, which we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u20	I have a question. The initiator says "my assessment," but what is the assessment based on? For if Mr Van Dijk and Mr Nicolaï say that their estimate is 80, then who is right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u21	I took the figures from the expert meeting. So I do not come up with these figures myself; they come from the expert meeting. There's an indication that there are 80 squats a year. Again, 24 of them have been notified of interim proceedings. That's what our bill applies to, not to the rest, but to the 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u22	Allow me to zoom in on that for a moment, because then we will have it sharp. Of course, there has also been talk of a number of which the officer sets a deadline of seven days, in which you will be given the opportunity to request a preliminary ruling. Then how do these things relate to those 24? I'd think they'd come up, so you'd have to bring those issues up at the rc.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u23	Those 24 cases for which an interim injunction has been announced can be expected at the rc in the short term. Then you do have a number of other things. This has not become clear at the expert meeting. It is also a pity that we have not been asked what the breakdown of the rest is. You do your 80 minus 24 and then you have 56 cases left. What's the split up of that? That has not become clear to me. Part of it will indeed be about squatters who have started walking in the first seven days. They have thought: we do not announce interim proceedings, but we are going to walk before those seven days. Yes, you can. But those people can still walk, because also the rc will make a request to hear and then the squatters can still walk. The question is, therefore, how much will be on top of that, but unfortunately it has not been asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u24	That confirms a little bit that we need to take more account of things than the 24, if you bring it back to Amsterdam. This is a separate matter from what Mr Arbouw has said about other cities. Let's not forget that either. But then again, you will have to come back to that later, as the officer has also pointed out, you cannot escape the fact that you are also obliged to obtain an authorisation from the rc for matters for which no interim proceedings have been initiated at all. You've got a bigger workload on those issues. I think you might recognize that, too. You'll come back to that. But it is then a question of how to more or less recognize that and how to prevent other criminal offences from being compromised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u25	I fully recognise that there will be more workload for the judge Commissioner, because there will probably be 24 cases in Amsterdam in the near future. On the other hand, five interim proceedings will no longer have to go ahead, and they will take much more time for the case-law. You may have, in the short term, 24 cases with a judge commissioner versus five interim proceedings now. You have to weigh that against each other, when you're talking about workload in justice. On the other hand, this law breaks the criminal housing model, puts an end to cracking, and eventually you go to far fewer cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u26	I am getting a little confused, also by Mr Koerhuis' introduction. He said that this law should be passed, because it would end in the short term. In the debate on the figures, I actually hear him say that it is precisely a replacement: where there is now an application for interim measures, it is through the judge-in-chief. But that doesn't put an end to cracks in the broad. You say the mayor and everyone else should keep doing what they're already doing. So it's just a matter of replacing those interim measures? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Then how does this bill put an end to cracking in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u27	There's gonna be an end to squatting as a housing model.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u28	That's a little too vague that it's a housing model. So that means you just have cracking and cracking as a housing model.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u29	You can now see that there can be carousels. I'm about to figure out how long squatters can stay on average. A squatter carousel can now be created on the basis of average lead times in the case-law. We also saw how that group travels around Amsterdam. This bill will put an end to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u30	Mr Koerhuis uses the present and the past together, I think. This bill came into being in the period 2017-2018, also in view of the examples mentioned by Mr Koerhuis. He is now talking about how that squatter's carousel is still moving around, when we have understood from all those involved that it has just ended because of the changed model of the government, the prosecutor's office and the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u31	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u32	That's more time-saving and then I get to my next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u33	No, it's not in time savings, it's in time placement when you've written this initiative bill out of annoyance and what the situation is now, as we've been suggested, in the reality of recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u34	Mrs Van Toorenburg will go into the quote in Trouw that the SP Group is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u35	Mrs Veldhoen, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u36	I'd like to get back to the numbers. You're talking about 80 cases. I'm looking at what the D.A. has given us at the expert meeting. That says that between 2014 and 2020 there were 560 squatting cases in Amsterdam. That led to 169 interim proceedings. They also say that this bill would require them to file a case before the courts in 560 cases. That's not a breakdown by mayor, police, prosecutor and so on, but just 560 squat cases, 560 files. The same in the caselaw. The case law says that there were 169 interim proceedings in 2014-2020 and 131 of them were withdrawn. They also say that the rc through this bill in all the 560 cases, not even where an interim action has been announced, but in all those cases, has to give a ruling. According to the Office, this leads to an increase of 1374% in the workload. I find it very difficult to place your figures in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u37	Again, I wasn't at the expert meeting, I was watching. I would have asked the question how the Council of Justice and the Public Prosecutor split out those 80 cases a year. I think that is the question that should have been asked. The second question is what such a file that the D.A. is now building looks like and what the difference will be with the file. Those are the questions that need to be asked, but unfortunately that has not happened. It's come out that the D.A.'s office should be preparing a file on all these cases right now. It's not like the D.A.'s office, without a file, is putting an announcement on a building that they have to leave within seven days or bring interim proceedings. That doesn't happen without file-building, so the D.A. needs to build up a file now. Unfortunately, this question was not raised at the expert meeting. Then I think it would have come out that the file is relatively simple and will soon be relatively simple for the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u38	That would have been the answer from the D.A.'s office, that's guessing for you. We are provided with figures from the D.A.'s office, assuming that these are all matters that come up on the D.A.'s plate. So then it is not relevant whether they should be broken down, because the public prosecutor will of course not mention anything that is actually on the mayor's plate. I think you're magical with numbers. I have no reason to doubt the figures provided by the D.A.'s office. The result is a huge load on both the officer and the rc.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u39	I did ask the D.A. what this file looked like. Unfortunately, that did not happen at the expert meeting. Such a file looks relatively simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u40	I would like to continue with the question that Mr Janssen has just asked. Mr Koerhuis then replied: this bill puts an end to the squatting carousel. You've also been watching with the experts' meeting. The experts there have said that the reform of the policy has already put an end to the squatting carousel. So my question to you is: how can you say that this bill is going to put an end to something that has already been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u41	First of all, the adapted policy in Amsterdam. Indeed, the aim is to evacuate within two to three weeks. There are a lot of concerns here about the position of the squatter. Quite frankly, that's two to three weeks in which a neighborhood is distraught and feels powerless. Owners see damage to their premises and have no access to their premises. I'd like to have said the same thing. The aim in Amsterdam is now two to three weeks. That has been the goal of nationalism for a long time. And what have we seen nationwide in recent years? Despite the goal of two to three weeks, it takes an average of four weeks for such a building to be evacuated. It could take up to eight weeks. I don't think that's acceptable. We do not think that is acceptable. That is why we have come up with this bill, to do something about that feeling of impotence and desperation with an owner and a neighborhood, who still have to experience this for three, four, five, six, seven, sometimes even eight weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u42	I object to the way you put this. You say that a lot of work is being done here on the position of the squatter. No, what we're doing here is assessing a bill based on legal status, feasibility and enforcement. That's what concerns are focused on here in the Senate. I think you should take that into account in your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u43	I'll take that into account, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u44	Mr President, a new point. I would like to take a look, with your permission, at the initiator, with the question of whether that point will be dealt with elsewhere. I heard him talking about exactly what the file means. Is that in this cube, or is that gonna come up later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u45	That's this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u46	This cube. Then I have a question. I hear Mr Koerhuis say that this is nothing different from the dossiers that are already being drawn up. In the expert meeting, I just understood the following from the D.A.'s office. I think that's on tape, too. The prosecution said that if we want to obtain an authorisation from the judge-supervisory officer, which is a matter of full proportionality, we will have to do a great deal more than what is happening now. If I understand Mr Koerhuis correctly, he says: you have a report and there are squatters. Does the initiator agree that the prosecution will actually have to deliver much more? Who are these squatters? How many squatters? Are there any mothers with children? And you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u47	Unfortunately, the question of what extra needs to be provided was not raised at the expert meeting. That question wasn't asked. I think the answer would have been: it has to be made more formal, because it has to go to the rc. But in terms of information, you have a report, an owner, a property and a group of squatters. It's just the request for evacuation. It's not about prosecuting the squatters yet. There is only a request to evacuate the property, so that the owner gets back access to the property and the neighborhood feels safe again. That's what we're talking about. It's not like one, two, ten, twenty squatters have to be prosecuted. There is a simple request to evacuate the property at the request of the owner of the property. It's not harder. It is a pity that that question has not been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u48	Does the initiator agree with my group that in order to obtain an authorisation from the Judge Commissioner, you can not just lodge a request for evacuation, but that this must be a substantiated request?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u49	I agree that this must be substantiated. That the owner is the rightful owner, for example, must of course be substantiated. I assume the D.A.'s office will check the land register to see if the owner is indeed the owner of the property.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u50	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u51	I understand that the judge Commissioner, Mr Koerhuis, may come back to that, but he must also look at the question of the protection of the right of residence. Fundamental rights must be weighed against each other. So if an authorisation is ultimately to be given by the Judge Commissioner, that must be done on the basis of a review of all kinds of facts. He can't suck those facts out of his mind. Someone's gonna have to tell him those facts. Since the initiative went to the D.A.'s office, the D.A. has to come up with that data, I understand. I would like to clarify how the initiators see this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u52	The D.A.'s gonna have to come up with numbers now, too. It's not like it's just gonna hang up a notebook with the announcement: bring an interim action within seven days, otherwise it's gonna be cleared. It's not now. Even now, the D.A. has to draw up an internal file and provide figures. If the question is really about the proportionality test, I would like to leave it to Mrs Van Toorenburg as spokesperson for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u53	Just a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u54	I am not concerned with the proportionality test. I ask the initiator how he imagines it. I hear him say: it's very simple; it's really nothing wrong with the file that's there right now. But how does the initiator imagine it? Should the D.A. go to the judge's commissioner and ask for an authorisation for a very important operation, which must be substantiated? The initiator made this law this way, so how does he imagine this going to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u55	Well, in the event of an emergency procedure, it may be oral, but the internal file that the prosecution has already got it in most of those 80 cases... will have to go to the court commissioner with the request for evacuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u56	Then I'm really going to see Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u57	Part of the question has actually not been answered. That's why I'm gonna stand there for a while. The initiator does not seem to realize that the officer actually takes over the plaintiff's place in an interim proceedings. He must provide all the information to the Judge Commissioner so that he can conduct a thorough investigation, because that is what the Supreme Court says: an in-depth investigation in order to assess proportionality. In that case, the officer will have to deliver much more than just a declaration and something from the Land Registry, as you say. There must be an in-depth investigation, so he must put all the facts and circumstances on the table that allow that thorough investigation. If the initiator talks about "a file" in which only a declaration and information from the Land Registry need to be included, I do not think that can be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u58	I didn't use the word "file," so I'm far from it. I am particularly concerned about the comparison with the current situation. A number of parties here make it look like the DA isn't making a file right now if there's an announcement to evacuate. I'll fight that. That file is now being prepared. It's not like there's a complex criminal case prosecuting multiple suspects. The request concerns the evacuation of a building. That's a relatively simple situation, because you have the report and the property, and you can see in the land register who's the rightful owner. That's relatively clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u59	Does the author agree with the following? If a file is now to be submitted to the Judge Commissioner, then at least, as Mr Nicolaï pointed out, it will have to be very clear about the owner's property rights and about the house law of the squatters concerned. Is that all in that first file? That's a demand that's coming to its full capacity now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u60	This goes towards the proportionality test. I would like to leave this to my colleague, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u61	I do not agree with you, but I understand from your reaction that Mrs Van Toorenburg will come back to this in detail. That's clear. Then we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u62	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna round off the block of workload. On balance, we expect more cases to be dealt with in the short term. We believe this is justified in order to combat the criminal aspect of squatters effectively, because they cannot stay in the building for weeks before they move on to another building. This is expected to lead to a reduction in the number of cases in the medium term. Then we'll save the block of time. The discussion about time savings is always that there are agreements to deal with a squat faster than in eight weeks and therefore this law would not be necessary. I'd like to put a little nuance to that. The attempt to speed things up was already there before we started this legislative proposal. However, the figures show a less rosy picture. The average lead time in the current procedure is between three and eight weeks. It makes a great deal of difference in this regard as regards the decision on the application for interim relief. The shortest is a withdrawal. Then the lead time is on average 21 days. A judgment by default lasts 22 days. That makes sense, that's the day after. On average, a judgment on conflict requires a 40-day lead time. A cancellation and oral procedure costs 51 days. In the new procedure, this is reduced to three days. And quite frankly, in the case-law, the treatment is now no more than three days. Then I'm talking about the time the judge is on it. He needs to look into the file, there's gotta be a hearing and there's gotta be a verdict. Those three separate days we bring back to three days in the beginning to break cracks as a housing model.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u63	I have one more question about time. It's in civil law now. There's two, three parties in court. And those squatters are a match. Criminal law works differently in the main proceedings, because it always sees the defendant. With that, every cracker is a potential suspect and thus party. Now, the circumstances of previous squatters in a squat will be about the same, so much more time won't take, but shouldn't you consider, as a suspect, whether there are any details for each suspect to be able to make that assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u64	No, because there's no prosecution. This bill doesn't see the steps after the evacuation. After the evacuation, the D.A. could possibly prosecute. Then of course you have to look per person. But if you're talking about the evacuation, you're talking about one building and one owner and one group of squatters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u65	I doubt that. I understand there's no prosecution. It is a question of proportionality. Again, in civil law, it is just two parties. But it is precisely criminal law that does not know the phenomenon of "Parties." I've done a squat myself as a state's attorney myself. That's where they were just talking about N.N. 1, N.N. 2, N.N. 3. Well, that was about something else, but it has to be individual. That is the essence of criminal law. You're not pursuing a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u66	I don't see the difference of opinion here. I think we're talking about the evacuation of a building. I would, however, like to point out that there are two types of interim proceedings. The spokesman for the Labour Party knows that better than I do. He was a district attorney. You have two types of interim proceedings. Now the D.A.'s gonna make an announcement to evacuate, unless an interim order is brought within seven days. In that interim action, it's the D.A.'s office against the squatters. Or it's the squatters against the D.A.'s office. This is a civil case other than what can always be done: that the owner himself is bringing a civil case against the squatters group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u67	Mr Recourt, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u68	Then let me use it for the second term. I'll give this a rest. Again, it's not about the prosecution, it's about me that you have to balance proportionality. Criminal law is aimed at a suspect. Shouldn't you at least make that proportionality weighting per cracker in theory?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u69	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u70	Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to the proportionality test. We're gonna do a lot of funneling over there right now. I tried to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u71	To make it clear that I hear Mr Koerhuis say the following. You have a property. You have an owner. You got squatters. That comes with the judge commissioner, he'll have to order an eviction. And he says there's no prosecution. Then I think I'm going to put it together correctly. Then I do not really understand why the initiators choose to place this conflict, this balance of interests, in criminal law with a judge-supervisor and not with the civil courts, in the interim proceedings, as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u72	I have a simple answer: then the criminal housing model will remain in place. That is what we want to break through. We find it unacceptable that a group of squatters should be able to stay in a building for an average of four weeks, that owners should not have access to it, that damage should be done and that the neighborhood and the owner should have a sense of powerlessness and desperation in something that is punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u73	But then we get back to the point: is this bill going to prevent that or not? That's what it comes down to in the end. You said: yes, our bill prevents a squatter's carousel. We hear at the expert meeting that this squatter carousel is already a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u74	I have just shown that the aim now is to evacuate within two to three weeks and that it is already taking longer in the country. We've seen for a longer time nationally that it takes an average of four weeks. Some people think that's acceptable, but we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u75	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u76	Then I get to the block about the owner's position. I think I've said some of this. In criminal proceedings, the D.A. is indeed a party. The prosecution is now also party to the civil proceedings in the interim proceedings brought by the squatters. It is precisely the owners who are very keen to shorten the procedure. That is what we heard at the expert meeting. Those owners would like to have this bill because they now have to wait a long time for them to have their property back and now they're going to pay for all the damage. In addition, I have just said that a civil proceeding initiated by the owner on the basis of a tort, is still possible. That route for the owner is not closed by us. We are talking purely about the other interim measures, which, in our view, take too long. Then I come to the block about squatters who don't make themselves heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u77	In fact, I had asked a question about other people about the position of the owner. But no matter how you turn it around, there's going to be a hearing of the judge commissioner. The judge-supervisor should in principle hear the squatters. Well, a squatter says, "Yes, but the information that the owner starts the renovation is incorrect. I have this information and I have spoken to the contractor." He'll come up with a whole story. Or someone else, a mother with a child, says, "I also had contact with him and he said, "Well, you can stay a few weeks." We don't know if it's true, but it's said. Then where is the owner of that judge commissioner at the time to contradict that? That is, of course, a very different situation than when you have an application for interim measures, in which the various parties are represented by lawyers. So my question is, again, can you be more specific about the owner's position? How is it protected when it comes to moving what was governed by civil law to a criminal hearing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u78	First of all, as we heard at the expert meeting, the owners want this law. They also see that this law is going to speed up the evacuation. There are a lot of things being brought in that squatters can bring in to the judge commissioner, who aren't in the law. I can't have Kraken. It's forbidden. So there are a lot of things that I do not think are relevant to the cases that are before us. You have a group of squatters. They're in someone else's building. That someone else filed a report and wants access to his property. That's the law, and that's what the judge commissioner needs to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u79	I am beginning to feel more and more that this initiator does not fully understand what he has submitted. However, it is about a situation that it was not in the act of creating a right of residence, and that the Minister can also agree that a judge must, on the basis of even Treaty provisions, assess whether the right of residence is wrongly violated. So we have this situation and not the situation: a property has been compromised, and if you can prove it, we're done. There must even be a proportionality test, which weighs that right of residence. In this context, a person who invokes the right of residence may invoke all kinds of things. Surely the initiator can't deny that? If he's leading things, where's the owner's position? That was my question and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u80	All kinds of personal attacks are being made, like I don't understand. I understand very well what I've submitted. We've only agreed to return to the proportionality test. Mrs Van Toorenburg will answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u81	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u82	But I would like to hear from the initiator: where does the owner stand when we're standing there with the judge commissioner with the squatters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u83	Again, the owner's position is in the current civil proceedings for interim relief, which was instituted by the squatters, as follows. The D.A.'s the opposite. Those are the two parties. You got the squatters and the D.A.'s office. It already is. In my view, there is another type of interim action, i.e. an interim action which may be brought by the owner against the squatters. That's still possible, but that's not what this bill is about. We can do that now, and we can do that later with the bill. This bill concerns the interim proceedings instituted by the squatters. And that's not where the owner is the opposing party, it's the D.A.'s office. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u84	Thank you. You continue your argument, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u85	Finally, the point that squatters do not make themselves heard. I have three things to say to that. I've had a lot of e-mails from the squatting movement, including in the Internet consultation, that they really don't want this law. If you had followed social media during the treatment in the Lower House, you will have seen that a Daniel Koerhuischallenge had been started from the squatting movement. I think I've been tagged hundreds, thousands of times. Today, the GroenLinks youth party in the Dagblad van het Noorden states that cracking through our initiative law will not be an option anymore. So I think the squatting movement is going to be heard. Mr President, that was my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u86	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, but not after I have given Mr Arbouw the opportunity to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u87	I had asked what alternatives the initiators weighed in the lead, before they finally came to the solution of this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u88	We have indeed considered alternatives. An alternative that also emerged in the expert meeting is the right to speed up the process. But the problem with that alternative is that you need permission from the squatters themselves. And that's difficult in this case, because they don't want to leave that building. So they're not gonna give permission for quick-track justice. Another alternative that we have considered is to get the judge all the way out. Then you can have the prosecution evacuated much faster, but according to our estimate we do not comply with the ECHR. What we have also considered is giving more powers to the mayor. We all know how it is under pressure these days, so that's why we chose this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u89	Thank you. May I ask Members to keep as far as possible the 1.5 metres away? Where that is not entirely possible, at least I would ask them to wear a mask. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u90	Thank you, Mr President. May I begin by thanking you for being willing to discuss this initiative law with us today? I appreciate that very much, because in the foreseeable future, say, a week, I'll be out of here. I am very pleased to be able to discuss this with you today in a debate. I would also like to thank the various Members for their kind words. It is true that I am not known as a very timid Member of Parliament. I'm trying to keep my head down, too, because there are really things that have been said that's gonna bring some kind of fire to me. I know you sometimes appreciate that in the senate's serenity. So I'm gonna do my best to keep it a little businesslike. But really, I can honestly tell you that I've been really concerned with this dossier from time to time. I've seen distressed police officers. On the NOS-Journaal I saw one with tears in my eyes. He said, "I'm standing here with my hands behind my back and I can't protect the citizens anymore." That's what we're talking about today. It may sound a little unkind, but I'm not proud of being here today either. I wouldn't have stood here at all. In 2010, when I was in the Chamber myself, we passed a law that makes cracking criminal. So it's not allowed. It's got a year's imprisonment on it. And it's still a bit of a discussion between property law and house law that I'm still hearing today. No, we have a criminal offense. People have come into a building and they can't do that. It's got a year's imprisonment on it. That's what we're talking about. Of course, house law comes into the picture somewhere, but de facto we have moved the beacons together. Recently, we stopped looking at it as a balancing of interests. It's a criminal offence. It's turned into a housing model. The D.A. says to the squatters, you have to leave, but we're gonna give you another week to figure out if you want to go to court and see if they tell you to leave. We actually give eight weeks for that. When the hell broke out in Amsterdam it got a little shorter, but come on, it really hasn't gotten much shorter. We analyzed it. It hasn't actually gotten much shorter. Occasionally it was, if it was childishly simple and people already had another building in mind. That's when they left. The worst part is, the owners checked it out. There were housing corporations who had everything in the scaffolding to make homes available to ordinary families in our big cities. It didn't work, because they were extinct, devastated. They could start tendering again. The whole mess came from behind it. They have told us that it hurts them that apparently it pays more to crack a building than to be neatly on the waiting list. Yes, that takes ten years; that's very annoying. But then we're gonna say, "Go crack"? No. The owners have been checking all the time. I hear it said in this Chamber: everyone is against it. But I also checked the entire technical briefing last night. When I drove here this morning, I'm telling you quite honestly, I had a bit of the idea: I'm going to the Senate now and I'm going to tell you that I'm kind of messing up the party of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the justice system. 'Cause oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, What about the owner who's standing there and watching his property be demolished? He knows that we have arranged it so nicely that the squatters went out within eight weeks and that there was then no criminal prosecution. That's why this person can't join at all. In the end, there is no ruling at all on the basis of which he can get at least €5,000 compensation. He's fine. No one's doing anything about it. He's looking at it. That's what we're trying to solve. We spoke to the victims. We spoke to the people of Ymere. We talked to the housing corporations. We've seen the neighborhoods and we've seen the people who've gotten scared of the squatters. There were people who were afraid to do any more shopping because they were afraid that someone would come into their house if they were no longer visible in their houses from behind the curtains. They made a neighborhood app with each other so someone could run errands. That's what we're talking about. Then there's the procedure. I'm a criminal attorney myself. I've been working in law for a short time, very briefly. It wasn't my job. Later on, I've been more busy locking people up than defending them. But I've actually seen how it works, including the judge commissioner, and also the prosecutors. I've been looking into it. It is not true that a prosecutor just sticks something on the door, has no file at all and does a warning: we're gonna get you out. That's not how it works at all. Of course he's gotta have a file by now. There's also just a file from the D.A.'s office. It is true that a number of Members have rightly made a comment about this, and that the judge-in-chief must have something to consider. But that is precisely the charm of the proposal. That's his job. The only thing that we are doing here, including the Council of State, is to make a procedure which allows the test to be carried out or a power to be used. It is no more than a test whether a particular power can be used. That's the work of a judge commissioner. It checks whether the power can be used to execute a telephone tap. It checks whether the authority can be used to conduct a search. It checks whether the power can be used to take a person's freedom. Yeah, and now it needs to check whether the authority can be used to get people out of a cracked building.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u91	I hear the initiator say here that the judge Commissioner only needs to check whether a power can be used. But in a ruling from 2011, the Supreme Court says that the entire interim proceedings have been set up; there must be an effective brake, because there must be a balance between the right of residence on the one hand and the right of ownership on the other. That's the test that the judge's commissioner has to take. The initiator says that the judge commissioner only needs to check a jurisdiction such as a telephone tap or a search. That is not, of course, strictly speaking, because the judge-in-chief will have to make the assessment that is now taking place in the interim proceedings. Otherwise, there is no agreement with Article 13 of the ECHR. That's what the Supreme Court says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u92	I strongly disagree with this reasoning. The Supreme Court always checks whether the law has been applied as it stands. That's what the Supreme Court did in this case. There was a system of interim proceedings. That's what the Supreme Court's been looking at. We are making another procedure, of which the Council of State also says: it is de facto no more than the review of powers. That's what we do here. That's what a judge commissioner does. Your honourable Member is quite right to point out that the Judge Commissioner must make a weighting. So the argument will have to be submitted: who is in the building and what is the balance of interests? It's gonna have to be fixed. But that is different from when you say in freedom: we have two interests now; we have a ownership interest and house law, and we are going to weigh them in freedom. No, the judge commissioner's gonna see if the jurisdiction can be used. Yeah, he's got to take that into account if any other interest prevails. That happened at Stappegoor, in Tilburg, because they didn't want to put those squatters on the street at the top of Corona. After all, they thought: that only makes it more dangerous. But it is de facto a rather limited test. I think we have wronged your Chamber by failing to properly discuss that marginal test. It is not a marginal test; let me be very clear about that. It's a proportionality test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u93	Then we agree that it is not a marginal test. It is a proportionality test which the Council of State says should take place. The Supreme Court has, of course, made that very clear. You cannot agree with that, but the case law is very clear. And the Council of State says that safeguards are part of that test, such as public access, access to a lawyer, access to the file and being heard. All these elements are not contained in the proposal either. While the balance of interests which the judge-supervisor must make, for example, in insurance, the right of access to a lawyer, the right to legal aid and the right to be heard and so on have been settled. Not public access to the judge's commissioner. You have not secured such elements, whereas the Council of State says in so many words that this is necessary in order to carry out a full proportionality test as indicated by the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u94	With all due respect, I disagree. It is no more than a test whether certain powers can be used. That's what guarantees apply. That is why those who are concerned should also be given the opportunity to be heard. But that's no different from the interim proceedings. That's not where they're gonna analyze 22 people who's where and what's where. There's just a representation there, too. It won't be any different. It is not a criminal prosecution that will actually put people in prison that year. It is no more and no less than a way to assess whether a particular competence can be used. Yes, there are a number of preconditions for that. It must be an independent judge. We believe that this has been met. People should be given the opportunity to be heard. If that mother and that kid think it's so important to stay there, then she's gonna have to come forward. She's been warmly invited. She knows exactly where she needs to be, because that will have to be made clear. But that's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u95	Mrs. Veldhoen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u96	The initiator cannot agree, but the Supreme Court is very clear about it: there must be an effective brake. And the Council of State says that there is an effective brake only if there is a thorough proportionality test and these guarantees are met. You can't like it, but that's the case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u97	And I believe that these requirements are met. It's an effective remedy. There's an opportunity for an independent judge to rule on it. There's an opportunity to be heard. Anyone can call in a lawyer's help. Well, let's face it, I've never seen squatters for interim proceedings without a lawyer. They're incredibly handy in that; they're probably already ready. So we know that eventually we look at a system in which there is an effective brake and in which an independent judge tests it. If the district attorney has not sufficiently indicated that this power should be used, then the judge commissioner............................................................................................................................................................................................... We can do that now, and we can do that later. A judge-supervisor does nothing but check whether certain powers can be used. Here is the authority to let someone leave a home that is not his. 'Cause it's a cracked building. If you'll allow me, I'll make a brief comparison. Imagine a couple of Eastern European gangs moving into a store and that while those Eastern European gangs are smashing this whole thing up, that's what we're talking about. We're saying to that shopkeeper, "We're really not gonna get them out. You'll have to go to a civilian judge first to tell them to get out." No, there's also room for action. People can be cuffed for less and imprisoned by the same judge-supervisor. Then all of a sudden we'd say that we couldn't. I really do not know why, as long as we have guaranteed access to the independent judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u98	I am very pleased with the intensity of the initiator, because fierceness always brings clarity. The clarity that is now coming is that the initiative now taken in this law is actually only intended to carry out a review, one might say: nevertheless, to establish a reasonably marginal review............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's one. That's obvious. Secondly, from Mrs Veldhoen's case law, you can deduce that at least the civil court is looking at the right of residence and its protection and weighing up. My question is in line with previous questions that I have already raised in my first term. I'm going to go along with what the initiators say: those lawyers are so handy. Doesn't that mean that lawyers will be saying: well, in the case of the judge-supervisor, as it is intended by the initiators, can you actually do a limited review, but we are then going to deal with the question of the review of housing law and that consideration? Aren't we just back to where we were and didn't just come up with something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u99	Nice. Three things. I'm suddenly thinking about when I wrote a criminal thesis. Then a professor also said: only if you have a very fierce battle will you eventually really come to the argument on the basis of which you can make a decision. So I'm glad that's happening. I'll get the search anyway. A judge commissioner makes the assessment, even now, whether he thinks it's real that there's going to be a search. Then he weighs other interests as well. Then he also weighs: who else lives there, what else is going on? That's his job; he doesn't do anything else. Yeah, he'll get something else later. Probably he will gain more experience in Amsterdam than in's-Hertogenbosch. I'm sure of it. But at the end of the day, he's gonna make that trade-off. Now, in my speed, I forgot the third thing I wanted to say, directly on what you said. May I ask you to get that last piece back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u100	If there's another interim order!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u101	If there's another interim order, check it out! Jeroen Recourt has always been my hero, including in the House of Representatives. He saves me more often and now too. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u102	That's a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u103	Yes, a personal fact. We can still have that interim hearing. But then I'll take a look... I'm terribly glad we had this situation going on. We have recently seen, in the case of the corona measures, that there can also be an application for interim relief, but that does not necessarily mean that in this case there can be no evacuation or that there is a suspension of the measure that has been taken. So, yes, I think that if a judge has ruled that a search can be carried out and that authority, which is granted permission, the squatters can indeed bring an interim action. But that doesn't mean that that evacuation can't go on. We have also seen in the corona measures that these measures could continue. The curfew could just stay in place. In the end, nothing will change that. So, yeah, they can go to the President of the Court of First Instance, but no, that won't mean a suspension of the evacuation. So the question is whether it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u104	Finally, Mr. Nicolai.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u105	But the President of the Court of First Instance decides whether the evacuation is allowed, yes or no? Or does the initiator mean that the evacuation is over and that the interim proceedings will then be conducted or that the evacuation would have been allowed? I think that a judge who takes his job seriously says: if you do not intend to wait for my ruling, then I will now rule, without hearing, that you must wait for my ruling. This is how it is done in administrative law in the flesh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u106	I'm glad it doesn't work out that way. If a court judge sees that a judge commissioner has seriously done his job as he always does, namely by weighing up interests when a jurisdiction is to be used, and that this has been done with care, because there is also some experience built....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then we can see if this is wrong or not. The question is whether that makes sense. Actually, you're already giving the answer. I wonder if it makes any sense to bring further interim proceedings. But it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u107	What I found interesting is that Mrs Van Toorenburg says: we should have explained better that it is not a marginal review. But then Mrs Van Toorenburg gives an explanation which is very limited. We heard the representative of the National Criminal Court Association at the expert meeting. It has made it very clear that the balance that must be made, which is now taking place in the interim proceedings, is being transferred to criminal law, but that this consideration must also be made there. How do you respond to that criticism from criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u108	That consideration will have to be made, but we are acting as if a judge of the interim court is working on it for days. He's only doing half an hour to 45 minutes on such a trade-off. He must have the pieces, of course. He must allow people to be heard. So crepe situations will certainly have to be applied there. Then the judge commissioner will also make that assessment. It won't be any different. We're kind of pretending it's an entire hearing, like we're gonna have to establish a sitting room. It's not like that with the judge commissioner. He's in a dungeon somewhere, in a court of law. Now he'll probably have a better, more convenient room, because he wants to invite some people, but it's not a sitting. We're gonna pretend that the judge's hearing is going to a major hearing of the judge's commissioner. No, the judge's commissioner is checking to see if a jurisdiction can be used. And yes, he needs to do something more than just look at it a little bit. He's gonna have to do a serious balancing of interests. On that basis, he will have to give the people concerned the opportunity to be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u109	It's interesting. You're talking to a number of senators who've also been judge commissioner, who've been in interim proceedings and who've been a criminal attorney. So they really know how it works in practice. I find it interesting that you say that there is an entire hearing in interim proceedings, but not in criminal law. That is precisely the problem: there is going to be such a very short flashy procedure that the experts from practice, the chain partners, say that this is contrary to Article 13 of the ECHR. There's got to be an effective brake. There really needs to be a thorough consideration, as the Supreme Court says. Mrs Veldhoen has already put it forward. Your proposal, the proposal of the initiators, is at odds with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u110	In my opinion, our proposal is to save the owners of buildings, who no longer have to look at how the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary had arranged things so well. In which we have even read from the Association for Justice that they say: how should we actually deal with a squatter who happens to be on vacation? A building's been hacked! Nine times out of ten, it's completely extinct. Now we've tried to find a way to do justice to the interests of squatters. Squatters can also have an interest. We saw it in the corona crisis at Stappegoor. That's where it was necessary. But we also know with each other that 99% of things end up with the fact that there is no house law. So we're talking about something we need to... "Oh, my goodness, we're gonna tear down a house law." It's never awarded. Once in steppe ear, because of the corona crisis. That's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u111	Let me take a look at Mrs Van Toorenburg for a point of order. Are you making any progress on the basis of these interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u112	Like crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u113	So it's not like you have a lot of cubes left. You can tell your story perfectly through the interruptions. Then we'll continue with the interruptions. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u114	I just heard you say, like a madman. I believe that I can endorse that, but I would like to distance myself from the fact that you say that the Public Prosecutor and the judges have been working together so well. They do that in the interests of the community. In a city like Amsterdam, they weigh interests against each other in a careful, short way without the need for a great deal of effort from the police, from the Public Prosecutor's Office, from the judiciary. There they simply discussed how to solve this problem that has arisen. We heard at the expert meeting we organised that this problem was also resolved. We're out of squatter carousel. So the question remains: what does your bill add to a problem that has already been solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u115	I don't recognize that the problem has been solved. We have also looked at what other squatting situations have been. We don't see a huge limitation of time there. You paint the picture that it's all in the interests of the community. That community has approached us completely distraught, because she didn't even dare to do any more shopping, because the police said with tears in her eyes on the NOS-Journaal: we're standing here and we can't do anything. Then a beautiful heritage is cracked and it lasts another eight weeks, so everyone thinks: it is completely destroyed. We're looking at it. What do you mean, "in the interest of our community"? I don't recognize that. We are therefore trying to do everything we can to speed up the process, taking into account the interests involved. That is what we have tried to do here with a weighting of proportionality. It is about no more than the question of whether a particular competence can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u116	Compliments have already been given to Mrs Van Toorenburg for her fierce start. To be honest, I was a little confused by the start, because she actually said so much to this Chamber: do not fall into all those remarks from the prosecution and the facts they have put forward, because they are only afraid that their party will be disturbed; in reality they are not even interested in the interests of the owners and the tears and so on. That's actually a hell of a charge to the D.A.'s office. I think that, if that's true, we have a very different problem than what's going on around this bill right now. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u117	No, it wasn't about the D.A. It's what was presented here, but it's not what I recognize from officers. It's not what I recognize from judges and lawyers. Because in the end, we want to make sure that this housing model is stopped. We see owners looking at such a situation. The case won't even be prosecuted in the end. So they don't even have a verdict in their hands. They can't even get compensation. The insurance companies pulled their hands off it. That makes it so painful for me. I find it really painful that we can now say to each other: it is well arranged. It's not a good deal. It's not well arranged for the owners. We've spoken to housing corporations. We have spoken to ordinary citizens who have suffered terribly. That's what I'm looking forward to, because I'm not the one standing here defending the Public Prosecutor's Office and the justice system. Unfortunately, we have seen them do things that we later said: perhaps we should have been a little more alongside the victims and the citizens. That's what I'm trying to do today as a public representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u118	That pain around the owners and everything that's going on there, I share with you, but certainly at your start, you said quite a bit about the D.A.'s office. I would be interested to hear the Minister's reflection on this later, because something is being said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u119	I told you that I drove here and actually felt like I had to tell you here that I messed up the D.A.'s party and the justice system. That's what I said. That's the whole context. I didn't mean that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary were just carrying out misery all day long. On the contrary, I am grateful for and proud of living in a rule of law, but let us make sure that the rule of law applies to everyone and not all of a sudden, when we feel that ownership and these large housing corporations are all not very important... There are ordinary people behind it, who have companies and couldn't do their own business anymore. We have seen that suffering. That's why I found it so painful that everyone just says... At least, here in the Chamber you have highlighted the arguments of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the justice system, but there was also someone else. I've heard that voice a little less in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u120	I also stood up because of what you said about the prosecution and the justice system. That is why I do not know whether he is listening to really react, because I personally do not like the way in which this is being discussed. That's why I got up, but I have another question. You're saying there's not gonna be a whole hearing. That is precisely the problem, in my view, because the Constitution states that a judicial decision is to be taken in public, unless it is otherwise regulated by law. The provision in the law you propose contains nothing about how that decision is taken, whether it is public or not, and whether the hearing is public. How do you see that? Because we're really talking about a suspect in a criminal justice system. If you say there will be no hearing, then how?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u121	Exactly the same as the use of the power to search, for example, is weighed, no different than that. However, in this case, there is an interest in.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u122	I would like to remind you once again of the ruling of the Supreme Court, which is not the least College of Commissioners, that there must be a proportionality test which meets the requirements of Article 13 of the ECHR. I dare take poison that a test such as it takes place on a telephone tap does not meet the requirements of Article 13 of the ECHR. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u123	Then it is good that we have an evaluation clause that is not five but three years. 'Cause I think it's gonna hold. I think we do have an effective remedy with this. I believe that the independent judge, who deals with far more far-reaching things, namely whether we hold people in prison for a very long time, can make a good balance of interest between intervention because a property has been cracked........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's the weighting a judge commissioner should be able to make. I think he's gonna do it the same way he is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u124	Finally, Mrs Veldhoen, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u125	Yeah, finally. The judge commissioner can't decide on very long prison sentences. It will decide in 14 days' time, and then the council room will have to decide again. He is, of course, making an irreversible decision here. The Supreme Court says that if an irreversible situation has to be assessed, it requires a thorough investigation. This must therefore meet the requirements of public access, legal aid and be heard. All these demands are not addressed by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u126	Mrs Van Toorenburg and then Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u127	I think that, with access to the independent judge, we may be doing a little more than the current procedure. Those D.A.s have never been before the Supreme Court. I sometimes wonder what would happen if they joined the Supreme Court. Isn't the whole system that we are embracing so gratefully with each other coming to a standstill? That's what I'm afraid of. Perhaps we are in favour of that with our own initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u128	Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u129	Can I make one more comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u130	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u131	We have, of course, heard the Public Prosecutor's Office and the case law, but I hope your Chamber has also taken note of the police boss we spoke to in the Lower House. That was Mr. Sheep. He indicated that the squatting law, which established a ban on squatting with a year's imprisonment and which was democratically adopted, including in this Senate, was ultimately counterproductive. The way in which the Public Prosecutor's Office worked out the law with that "you get a week and then another eight weeks" has ultimately made it counterproductive. It has been a facilitation of cracking. That's what the chief of police of Amsterdam said. He's not the least of them either. I want him justiceed today, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u132	I have a very simple question, so don't worry. You just mentioned the evaluation clause. I asked a question about that. You're talking about three to five years. My question was: could you also shorten that to one or two years? I'd like to know how you look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u133	I think it is very good that we are watching very closely how this law develops, especially to do justice to all your concerns. If we need an earlier evaluation, which happens more often in the case of laws, that must certainly be reason enough. I thought at first that five years would be enough, because everyone shouted that it wasn't very common. It turned out to be a little disappointing. Then we said three years. In the end, that's how it's gonna be. But I think it is very wise to follow this very well and critically, also to do justice to all your concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u134	Thank you. We do not, by the way, tutoy each other in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u135	No. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I have two short things to say. You will undoubtedly talk to the Minister about capacity and such matters, but what concerns me is that we are only looking at the costs for the government. We should also keep an eye on each other for the cost of property owners. I've spoken to them. They say: you should know how much we have to cost to organize security. They don't do that whole anti-cracking thing for fun. That's what they do to keep their goods safe and prevent people from going in. Those too are huge costs. They're responsible for security. If they didn't do it right once, they're responsible for all the damage. Finally, Mr President. My colleague Koerhuis already indicated that there was a challenge to him, with very nice pictures of his face and all of them gloomy, to say that he was doing so badly. I was surprised that, after working at the UN in Kosovo in my career, not the least place to contribute to a solution to war crimes, the squatters accused me of committing genocide on squatters. Screaming and screaming, I would have committed genocide. So if anyone thinks we're facilitating the squatters and just putting them in a firmer position, they clearly didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u136	I have a question about the latter. By the way, all these threats are horrible. It just can't be. But then, not from ideology, I come back to that in second term, but just taking stock: what changes the position of both parties, owners and squatters? Squatters go from the judge to the rc. That's about the same thing. About the test is discussion, except that it is extended. In any event, the President of the Court of First Instance is still well aware of the situation of the owner. In the criminal court, it should be through the district attorney's office. Then how do you make the balance sheet when you say: this is really in the interests of the owner? Is that only in the time savings that this is aiming at, or is it also in the position of the Judge Commissioner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u137	Maybe it sounds almost crazy out of my mouth, but I'm assuming the D.A.'s office is definitely there for the owner, too. If I said in this room that I don't think she cares, I'd really insult them. They're very interested. They want to be there for the owner, too. They will also have to ascertain what the owner's argument is. Well, let's face it, if the D.A. were to fail, it's still up to the owner to start an interim proceedings himself. It is therefore not possible to do so by means of this procedure; an owner can still claim his own rights in interim proceedings. That's gonna stick. So I hope that, in the cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the owner, a good test can eventually be done by the Judge Commissioner, who is nothing more than to bring it forward. It is likely that this will be quicker and more appropriate, as the Court Commissioner is more likely to review powers. But I think that interplay can eventually bring this whole situation into its own right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u138	If the owner himself starts an interim proceedings, then the time savings are already gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u139	Then he didn't feel represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u140	But more importantly, that owner actually disappears and needs to be represented. There's a person coming in. That person is not his lawyer and defender of interests, but a magistrate, a prosecutor, who will represent much more of a general interest, a public interest. So I can only conclude that the owner's position in law will weaken, even if he may gain time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u141	Mr. Recourt and I have fought for years to ensure that a prosecutor identifies himself even more with the position of victims. Fortunately, they've become very good at that. So in this case, too, I hope that he actually has the victim under his arm if it is not physical, then it is emotional to fight for them to put an end to the crime committed against the person and which actually has a year in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u142	Finally, Mr Nicolaï, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u143	I heard the initiator say she was at the end of her story, but I had asked another question about alternatives. I had asked why no consideration was given to extending administrative powers... I have just heard again that there was talk about a 'victim'. I have talked about compensation for damage, because damage that is not compensated is actually a very important element for both initiators. You can think in that direction, can't you? I would still like to hear how the initiators look at that. Isn't that considered at all? Or could it still be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u144	Clear. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u145	I'm telling you honestly, I found that disadvantage compensation very interesting. I do think it means a lot to a city like Amsterdam, while Amsterdam is still calling out: don't report it. So it's actually another backup. Amsterdam will then get all the bills from all owners. I've had a lot of trouble with that. But it's a very interesting one. I didn't work this out as an exercise myself. We have looked at what the procedure is now and how we will ensure that there is an effective brake, that there will be a judgment and that action can be taken quickly. 'Cause you've already got it on that disadvantage compensation. We just hope that by acting very quickly and taking out squatters immediately there will be an image of the Netherlands, which also means that groups that are now in Berlin, to which your colleague from the PVV rightly referred, do not think: The Netherlands is a nice country to go to, because then we can hop from building to building again; when we are done with Amsterdam, we will go to Amstelveen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u146	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u147	Still, in addition to that. Surely it is true that if it happens in the act, it will be possible to act immediately? If so, I would like to hear it from the initiator. That is why I found the example of those Eastern Europeans who enter a store and so on and so on... I do not know why they should be Eastern Europeans again, because that does not matter. Then we can act in the act immediately. If action has been taken in the act and no right of residence has yet been established, then the whole squatter carousel cannot be created. I have actually heard too little about this from the initiators. I would like to make a further point on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u148	In that respect, cracking is, of course, a special branch. After all, there are people who stay there and eventually there is an owner who finds out and wants them to leave. If there is a rage situation in a home, then the mayor can act, and he can do it later. So that's not gonna change. If people don't want to leave, there will usually be other situations. There's gonna be a threat, or you won't have a situation like that where someone comes in, probably forcing the door. We even saw that a man couldn't get into his own business anymore. So those possibilities remain. Getting people out who have been in it for a while will be more work in a few situations, but we hope that this will increase the deterrent. We have not chosen to increase the penalty, also because we often see that we as a Chamber are very firm in that, but nothing changes in the final imposition. So I didn't feel like that would make a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u149	Thank you. I would ask you, Mrs Van Toorenburg, if you have come to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u150	Yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u151	Then I'll suspend for a few minutes. Do I understand why you're asking me to do that, Minister? Yeah, I see. Two minutes. Then I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u152	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u153	It is always pleasant for your Chamber to give me the opportunity to start my reply slightly differently from what I had intended, and often in a positive way. Mrs Veldhoen, who is now walking in front of me, gave me that reason, because she was right to ask for some reflection on the sitting and standing magistrate in the Netherlands. Now. In recent years, but also before I became a ruler, I have regularly praised the quality of our sitting and standing magistrate, also recently, in a publication quoted by some of your members. These included legal quality, professionalism, integrity and the work organisation. And that's what someone who's always done one part of the law business. Genetically I should have had it in me to test the power of law, but you know that the translated song Le moribond says: I was the black sheep of the family. You won't be able to make it past an hour's bill. I think it is right at the beginning of my term in this treatment to take as a starting point that our sitting and standing magistrate really delivers top work under quite a lot of pressure. Since Mr Dittrich said something about it, I also say that we see a budget for Justice and Security that goes from 1.8% of GDP in 2013 to 1.4% in 2025. I cannot draw enough attention to this, because we should really be concerned about this, precisely because we have a rule of law that is based on good principles. Those are good foundations that are able to recognize that something really did not go well once. Mr Dittrich has already said something about this. I'm not gonna call him more now, by the way. I believe that every Member has the right to be mentioned twice, so the gentleman sitting on my right and having more hair than I will no longer mention by name. However, I would like to stress that the fact that the Court of Justice has explicitly drawn attention to the failure of the supplementing affair in public is a real proof of its own integrity and of its willingness to reflect. That is important, also for the case we are here for today. When I hear the contributions, a number of Members are wondering whether the conversion of the President of the Court of Justice to the Judge-in-Office of the Court of Justice is wise. Are there sufficient substantive and procedural guarantees? Think of Article 13 ECHR and the 2011 Supreme Court. I'm trying to talk a little panoramic, Mr. Chairman, because otherwise I don't think it's polite. My answer to that is yes. So that yes is partly due to what I said in the introduction. We have well-trained, well-educated, professional and very rule of law judges in our country. Whether the judge attracts the gown of a judge-supervisor or of a judge-in-law, the quality is always really very good. There will be a case where things don't go exactly as they were supposed to, but then too we will get into this rule of law, especially with your First Chamber. I remember a nice afternoon and evening in February following an emergency bill, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u154	What the Minister says, I'm a little surprised. He praises our judiciary, and I am very happy to do so, but then he concludes that what is said here is right. And that, while that same judiciary says in no uncertain terms: do not vote for this law, for it brings more misery than good. That is why I cannot follow the Minister's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u155	Mr President, I should like to apologize for 'bringing to conclusions' ananglicism, but that is what is happening here. I had not yet come to any assessment of what we are talking about here. By the way, you have been able to read it in the written documents, but let me not, like the television series Columbo, tell you who did it already. Let's just go over the story first. I have not yet said anything about the substantive questions that play at any time. What I take as my starting point is that we have a Dutch, sitting magistrate. By the way, we also have a standing magistrate. But we have a sitting magistrate that fits the toga well. In addition, it will not matter very much whether this toga has one or the other role. Then we can look at the concerns that have been expressed. Some questions have been asked about this from various advisory positions. Anyway... Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u156	I thought I heard the Minister say: the judge commissioner can do the test fine. But then I have misunderstood that and I am patiently waiting for the further argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u157	Maybe I'm gonna say that. I must admit that it may have been somewhat on the horizon of what I have said so far. But I haven't said it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u158	Mr Dittrich, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u159	However, on the exchange of interim measures, the Minister told the Judge Commissioner that this could be done. But when I look at what Mr Michiel de Ridder, the chairman of the National Consultation Body of Criminal Law, has advised the First Chamber: reject this bill, because it is not well put together, I do not understand why the Minister can already say that moving from the exchange of interim proceedings to criminal law can be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u160	I admit that we would very much like to discuss this with all of us now. That it certainly granted to the initiators and, in particular, to one, with which I do not want to fail the other. In my letter of 19 March last year, which is not really an eternity ago, I thought about the question of Article 13 of the ECHR quite extensively. I have even taken the liberty of noting that there is, in essence, a question of even going one step further. Article 13 of the ECHR specifically provides for the possibility of going to a court for a person who could be harmed in his home law. In this legislative proposal, on behalf of the cabinet, I would certainly like to make a few comments on this, but that will have been noticed in the written documents, at least on the front, it is said that there must be an authorisation. Then you can go on and I will not repeat it here; I have actually done so in the letter a little bit more in detail, and I really say that in any case the judge-in-chief's review takes place in the form of a proportionality test. I should like to comment on this in a little more detail in the light of the questions put by Mrs Veldhoen and Mr Dittrich and Mr Recourt. In any case, there is sufficient opportunity for the debate. A question has also been asked by Mr Recourt about the course of the civil court to the criminal court. But let us be clear: that is a debate in the whole of a suspected criminal offence. So in itself, that doesn't make so much sense. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to walk through the questions first. I can, of course, say very clearly at the beginning of the debate, and there must be no misunderstanding about that: I also have some answers to what Mr Dittrich has asked, namely how the cabinet looks at this. The cabinet attaches importance to ensuring that an unlawful situation can be resolved quickly and that perpetrators are punished. To this extent, the cabinet can support the initiative of the proposers to speed up decision-making, provided that the rule of law is properly protected. In the opinion of the Cabinet, therefore, there are no major objections to the initiative proposal. The ex post judicial review by the Supreme Court is therefore transferred to a prior judicial review by the Judge-General. This could lead to a faster decision-making process. The Judge Commissioner is an independent judge who is used to deciding within a short period of time in criminal proceedings on a claim by the Public Prosecutor, while respecting the guarantees of proportionality and subsidiarity. As I mentioned earlier, and the Council of State also says, this complies with Article 13 of the ECHR. However, the cabinet has a comment on the 72-hour deadline within which the judge-supervisor must decide. The cabinet wonders whether this period can be sufficient in practice. It is precisely because of the importance of an effective remedy and its relevance that the Council of State and the advisory bodies have expressed concerns about this issue. I am very clear about this: these concerns are shared by the cabinet. These concerns have been largely removed by the initiators by stating in the explanatory memorandum that the 72-hour period is not a fatal one and that it can be derogated from in circumstances without consequences. Let me be clear: in the opinion of the Cabinet, it is very important that the parties concerned should be able to express their views well before the judge-chief decides. Now Mrs Veldhoen asked, but also Mr Dittrich and Mr Recourt, what exactly should the judge Commissioner do? He shall ultimately assess the application of criminal jurisdiction and shall do so on the basis of the action brought by the Public Prosecutor. The Judge Commissioner must therefore be able, if that authorisation is requested on grounds of creaking suspicion, to adequately assess the proportionality of eviction in the specific case. In the opinion of the Cabinet, that procedure must be sufficiently guaranteed. And then the judge commissioner will have to check whether there is indeed a suspicion of a criminal offence. If there is, he will still have to weigh the interests between the right of ownership and the right of the squatters. That is, as has been said, a proportionality test between, on the one hand, the infringement of house law in the light of the serious importance of the detection of criminal offences and the protection of property rights and, on the other hand, the protection of house law. In addition, the squatters must be heard. If the rc believes it prevails, he does not give permission, and if the other prevails, he gives it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u161	I have just heard the Minister say that he attaches great importance to hearing from all parties, that this is a very basic part. Now we also hear the initiators saying that there will be no such thing as a sitting, as if that would be very crazy in this context. How does the Minister see that? In what way are the squatters then heard in such a way that this thorough consideration of the interests referred to by the Supreme Court can indeed take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u162	The text of Article I, the envisaged Article 551a of the Criminal Procedure, paragraph 3 states: "The persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are thus, in this case, the persons against whom a possible criminal action for eviction would be brought "if possible, heard by the judge-supervisor. In the event of urgent need, the judge-supervisor shall decide without having heard the persons." I therefore assume that only in a very exceptional emergency will the Judge Commissioner decide: we cannot hear those people. This also seems to me to be a clear guarantee in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u163	I'm kind of looking for the practical effect. What's that rc gonna do later? How is it supposed to shape that "hearing"? I hear the initiator say you can also call to provide further information. I do not think that this is in line with public law and criminal law. How do you see that, once the action is brought by the officer and the rc gets it on his desk? Should he wipe his desk and invite squatters and the officer to sit in his room? Or does he have to hold a public hearing in the courthouse? How did that work out? That is still not quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u164	It is ultimately an action in the context of criminal investigations, and that will simply be the case as the judge-supervisor normally observes. Once again, I cannot stress enough, and that is why I just referred to that Article Member who said that I believe that there can only be an urgent need to depart from the principle that those concerned are being heard, because that is what I always call them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u165	Mrs. Veldhoen, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u166	Then I come back with my proportionality test and the demands that are made of it. You say it's just a balance of interest in the criminal investigation, but that's not what the Supreme Court says. It says that an in-depth investigation must be carried out, whereby a balance of proportionality may be achieved. That's what guarantees apply. In the course of the interim proceedings, we have written these guarantees together in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but because it has been drawn into the criminal law framework, we do not have those safeguards and should be governed by the law. I note again that the law does not provide for a lawyer to be called, that the file can be seen and that there is actually hearing not only in principle, because I think that is perhaps too weak in a way where the squatters are also being justiced. I am not concerned with the position of the squatters vis-à-vis the owner and with the question of whether or not that is morally reprehensible. I am purely concerned with the legal guarantees we have agreed with each other. Does the Minister believe that this is being complied with, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u167	I myself think, in all honesty, that... I've experienced both the judge in the interim and the commissioner in criminal matters quite often enough. The hearing with the Judge Commissioner in criminal matters is, let me put it this way, surrounded by more safeguards than interim proceedings. I think this is also due to the inclusion in criminal law and the principles that apply there, which are more stringent and tighter. The fact that this is being transferred to the judge's commissioner gives more guarantees in itself than in the course of a brief hearing. That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u168	Mrs Veldhoen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u169	Finally. The guarantees given by the Judge Commissioner... nothing to the detriment of the Judge Commissioner, because I am very confident that it will do everything perfectly and stand up for those guarantees. But the judge's commissioner's criminal procedure has established what should be arranged for a suspect, namely that there is a lawyer, that the file is there and that the hearing is there. This bill doesn't settle all that for this hearing. That's the problem. Article 59a Criminal proceedings provide for that for the insurance. But this procedure is not named at all. I do not think that this is in line with the guarantees we have agreed on under the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u170	I don't see that, honestly. In draft Article 551a, 'the present present' and so on, I do not see any withdrawal of the guarantees that exist. I believe that I have made it quite clear that the cabinet has some concerns about a number of points of this bill. Let's make that very clear. But at this point I insist that you will move from a reasonably formal interim hearing to a somewhat tighter treatment by a judge commissioner, which is embedded in a criminal trial, in a criminal investigation. In doing so, I assume that the procedural rules that normally apply to this will also apply here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u171	Let's hear about that. In the General Administrative Law you also see when a government body, an administrative body, has to do what. There's a hearing obligation. It is therefore perfectly regulated, especially at the objection stage, how this should emerge. That is not settled in this case. My question, also to the Minister, if you will allow me, is the following. A judge commissioner could have a suspect in the courtroom with the judge commissioner. But cracking often takes place through groups. If there are twenty, ten or fifteen squatters, should they all be heard individually? Are they heard in each other's presence? Do they all have the right to have their own lawyer? These are questions that arise when a provision is about belonging.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u172	The answer is simple. All squatters... let's just say "persons" for we don't know if they're squatters yet. After all, there is only a suspicion. So all those involved will have to be heard in principle. Once again, this will be subject to the urgent need criterion in order to depart from it. That's how I see it. That's how the cabinet sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u173	Let me put it this way: the Minister's answer is that there must be twenty times when there are twenty squatters. I do not yet have an answer to my question as to whether hearing can take place in common or whether it should take place individually each time, and whether each of those lawyers individually...Sorry, each of those...crackers can also be lawyers, by the way. Does every cracker have to be heard individually and can they bring their own lawyer? Those are questions that need to be considered, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u174	I'm referring back. I can reread the whole article of the law, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u175	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u176	No, I'll spare you that. The article of the law clearly indicates how it works. The people referred to in paragraph 1 are the people whom Mr Nicolaï does, but I do not yet mention squatters; we do not know the outcome yet. The persons shall be heard, if possible, by the Judge Commissioner, in the event of an urgent need. Yes, I repeat. That means you're gonna have to hear whoever's in the district attorney's claim according to this article member. It says so, so what good would it do to keep repeating it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u177	Mr. Nicolaï, finally. I don't think you're going to get another answer, but try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u178	My question was also whether they will be heard together. If they're all being heard in person, I have to understand... is there going to be 20 times as much hearing in the judge's room? Those are just practical questions, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u179	You can also ask those questions in the interim proceedings and the like. I have just indicated that, as the cabinet and I read this bill, the rules as they stand in the criminal proceedings are not being derogated. Whether a judge commissioner decides to hear people at the same time or otherwise within the framework of the order of the day is not part of the discussion right now, I think. Moreover, in the context of the weighting between interim proceedings and criminal proceedings, I do not see that much difference, quite frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u180	Then there is Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister praise the criminal justice system and the safeguards that it contains. He's quoting the article member. Where's the owner in this criminal justice system? 'Cause we're talking about suspects of the crime "cracking." The minister says they need to be heard. I agree. But where's the owner in this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u182	This concerns the suspicion of a criminal offence in the context of which an eviction action is brought, in this case, according to the legislative proposal, with the Judge Commissioner. The owner will have been heard in the police or the public prosecutor's office in that context. There does not seem to me to be a need for the owner to... but he can always come forward and say: I am not on the list of suspects, but I do want to be heard. But of course he was heard prior to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u183	If the district attorney wants to hear the owner, we need to make arrangements, we need to have the conversation, we need to work it out and we need to do it in the file. All this is added to the three days of the flashing process proposed in this bill. Do you not come to the conclusion that there is a great deal to be done on the savings of time, as we are told by the initiators?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u184	No, because I think those three days will go into the moment the D.A. makes that request. I just checked it out. But yeah, even when you're talking about the short-term situation, there's always gonna have to be an owner who says, "Someone's violating my property rights." I do not see very well that it would work as a turtle in the interim proceedings as a hare and in the court commissioner, or vice versa. He'll need the same time to do his undoubtedly emotional story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u185	Mr Dittrich, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u186	The point is that the judges, the prosecutors, the lawyers and the VNG, so let's say all chain partners, make a compelling appeal to the First Chamber to reject this bill. About the time savings, they say the following. That file needs to be created. That's the pre-stage before it finally gets to the judge commissioner. If you add all that together, I believe that Mrs Veldhoen also said so, then we will end up with a period of two to three weeks, which is already common practice. So the question is, where is the time savings? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u187	Whether that's common practice, I'll stay out of it. That is the discussion that some of your Members had with the authors earlier. When we had the debate at the end of May 2018, it was just six or seven weeks. That's the first thing. Secondly, and I repeat that again, the concern of the cabinet is that it must be done legally in those 72 hours. That's how I'm gonna sum it up. I am sure that Mr Dittrich will be happy to see his papers when he hears that word. I can also assure him that Ajax is not playing tonight. So, luckily, he doesn't have to come back in the car with me. Happy for him! That legal point of 72 hours is very important to me. We need to be clear about that. And there's some concern about that. I also understand that the Council is concerned about the case-law and the Council of State. From matters such as 'compelling a file' and all that is more, I say: that is the issue in both situations. You can start at the same time and say, "Watch how long it takes in the interim proceedings or how long it takes in the court commissioner." But, of course, there's no difference in creating the file and that sort of thing. That thought would wrong the self-intentioned motives of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u188	I am not saying this because I want to make this the biggest point, but the Minister is very laconical about the file building. I find it complicated, even as a SGP. It has been pointed out in many ways by the public prosecutor that the construction of a file is now extremely simple. This is going to have to be much more extensive for the rc. Then there will simply be much more information about the precise property rights and the home rights of the squatters and so on. Either it stays the same, or the D.A.'s right as it says: there's going to be a lot more time in a file and this just means a heavy increase in the workload. It can't be both true. How can there be so much confusion about such factual things?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u189	What we see, of course, is that these interim proceedings are being initiated and that they are being withdrawn at the last minute. In all honesty, we must look each other in the eye in this Chamber. I'm not a supporter of owners who leave houses or buildings empty for a long time or anything like that. I really don't have that sympathy. However, I understand that there has been displeasure and still is about the illegal possession of a property and that it will be left shortly before the application for interim relief. This bill aims to do something about this failing practice. I say on behalf of the cabinet: the other approach chosen for this is simply possible in law, provided... and then you come back to that 72 hours. I would like to point out that there is often no need to draw up a thick dossier in these interim proceedings, because most of these interim proceedings are finally withdrawn. So that's not exactly compareable. All I want to say is that the public prosecutor's contribution to a careful case is always qualitatively legal or legally qualitative; what you want to call it must be good. That's how our D.A. works. That means you have to prepare the file properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u190	That the file should be good and everything, that's excellent. So it's all about the difference of opinion. There are two contradictory messages about this. One group says: no, the dossiers are subject to the same light demands under the new regime. The prosecution says that it is going to give us a heavy, extra workload, because the dossier will really have to contain a lot more information under the new regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u191	Mr Nicolaï has just left, but then we come to the evaluation. This is now an assumption that we must say in the end: the evaluation will have to show whether that is the case. But I'll come back to my point. The proposers say: we think it is reasonable and good to shorten that period. That's where this bill goes. In doing so, a transfer will take place from the civil court to the criminal court commissioner. This can pass the test of Article 13 and of the 2011 Supreme Court. There is also, as a second point, a 72-hour period. The government says of this: we still have to see if in all cases it will take away all the worries, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u192	I would like to invite the Minister to reflect more generally on the workload for the prosecution and the case law that this entails. They have provided themselves with appalling figures. I take it they're not for nothing. Can the Minister tell us how he looks at that? If he's looking at priorities that the D.A. has to set, for example? They say, "We're just gonna have to decide if we're gonna solve a squatter's shop, a home invasion or a horrible vice case." If the Minister had been allowed to decide for himself, is this a law that you say was at the top of your list?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u193	That's not up to me. The Minister for Justice and Security is not the one who decides on the principle of opportunity in individual cases. That would be a very strange distortion of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u194	I certainly do not ask you to decide on individual matters. But I do ask: what is policy thinking about when it comes to the need for criminal action? I suppose the Minister is also thinking about what law he is submitting at what point, to see what the stakes are on. You have, I think, formed a thought about this through the chairman, I presume?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u195	Let's be honest. There are always moments like that that we had ten days ago in the run-up to 17 March, when there are people who say that there must be so many policemen that every burglary is solved, so to speak, and so throughout the criminal justice chain. We all know that there is no such thing. That means you always have to weigh things up. We see that in traffic, for example, to name but a few. Then you can see that every few years a Security Agenda has been drawn up. That system existed before I became a minister. This is something that all the partners, including the mayors, who form part of the local authority triangle, say very clearly: we need to set our priorities on this. The next Security Agenda will be discussed in 2022. Then you should see if police, prosecutors, mayors and others will say: this is one of the A, B or C priorities. I believe you have three categories. It's up to them to report that at the time. Perhaps I will meet Mrs Veldhoen somewhat when I say that, of course, choices will always have to be made here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u196	That is a very small concession, because choices must always be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u197	It's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u198	I wonder whether the Minister would not be able to say anything more about it, in terms of policy choices on the use of scarce resources, where we are being pushed with our noses into the facts by the prosecutor and the judiciary. You go astray and say: in the Security Council, that should take place. I assume the Minister has an opinion on that, too. If this law had ended up on your desk, would you have said: we are going to work on this, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u199	The complicated thing is: of course, this law did not end up on my desk, because this is an initiative law from the Lower House. I started with compliments to ZM and OM, but I also compliment the two MPs. I hadn't said that. They have indeed said on a subject of social importance to them: we believe that new or additional legislation is needed. That is what I hear all Members saying, with the appreciation that is being expressed. It's really good for our democracy. The cabinet then indicated how it looked at this. But it is not really up to the cabinet to say: our wish list actually looks like this. We have other gremia and fora for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u200	Mrs Veldhoen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u201	I note that the Minister does not want to give me an answer, but I also note that the Minister does not say: this is very high on my list of wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u202	I didn't name my wish list at all. I don't know if that's the case either. By the way, a nice booklet has recently been published in which there is something about wishes and lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u203	This is a covert commercial, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u204	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u205	This is a covert commercial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u206	This is a covert commercial for the Ronald McDonald House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u207	So it's a covert commercial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u208	They put a lot of pressure on me to get all the proceeds that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u209	So you're admitting it. Are you making any progress, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u210	I'm making tremendous progress, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u211	Then Mr. Doornhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u212	I would like to continue on Mrs Veldhoen's point. I've asked the initiators how they look at the fear here in the Chamber that you're getting some kind of repression from tackling the other criminals. In reply to Mrs Veldhoen's question, the Minister says: I am not talking about prioritising. During the expert meeting we heard from the public prosecutor himself: look, if we have this law or this procedure later, then we are going to follow it up and then we have to move forward. That is almost a kind of fact that was brought forward. Mr. De Ridder also said on behalf of justice that you will see some delay in ongoing criminal proceedings. With those facts presented, I ask the government: is this really going to happen, will this fear become a reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u213	Then, of course, we come to a very different point. In any case, I am convinced that if we really have to go somewhere in the years to come, we will have to go to the institutions of our rule of law. I'm referring to the D.A.'s office, but I'm also referring to the incumbent magistrate. In an attempt to meet Mrs Veldhoen somewhat in vain, you can hear me say on the one hand that I am not talking about prioritisation or wish lists, and certainly not about an initiative legislative proposal. On the other hand, you can also hear me say that I really think that this is already starting with the police, but in recent years it has been given considerable structural money. In particular, we must help the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary more firmly in order to ensure that they are able to carry out the tasks that they have in our society, in our political capacity, in a humane way. By "human dignity," I also mean that it has to be done within reasonable, decent working hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u214	Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just heard the Minister say: it is a pity that Mr Nicolaï is not here, because it concerns the three-year evaluation period. In the Minister's letter of 18 March, I read that the basis for the legislative proposal will have to be proved in practice. My question to the Minister is: must it not always be proven? We can't take a chance on legislation, can we? Would the Minister like to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u216	The complicated thing is, of course, that in a legislative proposal, you have to justify in advance that it is really going to contribute to the objective you have. That's the point, of course. According to the Council of the State, the initiators have also provided sufficient evidence that this review can in principle take place within 72 hours. Well, I've already said exactly where there are some concerns in the cabinet. If you find in some cases that we don't make 72 hours, that it's going to be twice 72 hours, then you'd still make a considerable saving in time compared to the current situation. Gambling legislation, legislation that you introduce and where you do see what happens, I am very opposed to that, as Mr Dittrich does. Then you're really gonna burden our implementation organisations with a lot of things that you say we shouldn't do. But that is not the case here. Mr Dittrich referred earlier to the premium affair. The good thing is, and I would like to stress this, that I see that what was so painful about this is that there was not a single hardness clause in this bill in any case on two points. Only in urgent need can you make a decision without having heard it. Furthermore, it must be in a process where it is really reasoned. The explanatory statement also states that the 72 hours is not a hard time. I think that these are important points to take into account in the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u217	I mentioned the premium affair, because the Van Dam Committee said: legislative proposals arising from intense emotions... We also saw it in the contribution of Mrs Toorenburg, who spoke to owners and then wrote a bill. That is very respectful, not of that, but the Van Dam Committee says: legislative proposals resulting from emotions have the risk that they are not really very good and thorough. That was the reason why I raised the supplemental issue. I have a second question about the letter of 18 March. In that statement, the Minister states "that there seems to be no need for the exercise of powers at the moment, since the phenomenon of residential carousel no longer exists." Does the Minister say that the bill is actually superfluous because the carousel no longer exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u218	No, I'm not saying that. The bill is not superfluous. I didn't say that. It is true that, if the justification is sound, we have to assess whether this has saved time but also brought about justice. That is what the authors are looking for, which is quite lacking at the moment in practice, as the explanatory statement also states.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u219	Mr. Dittrich, your third question, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u220	The chain partners advise us and say: the problem as outlined in the bill no longer arises because the legal practice has changed. A new method of working has been established. They come to the conclusion, last week, that we should not accept this bill. Those are the Justice Minister's chain partners. The question of how the Minister reflects this is therefore very justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u221	Mr President, I am sorry that, as it happens for the second time, I allow myself to correct Mr Dittrich: it is the Minister of Justice and Security who stands here. It is quite clear that the chain partners state this, but, as I have just said, this does not change the fact that the authors have said: there is a shortage in our legal system and we believe that it needs to be repaired in this way. Then it may well be that the next evaluation period showed that it hardly needed to be applied. It may also be the case that this problem has now come back and that it is very useful. Then we also have to look at how the time savings have been realised. That is the situation we are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u222	I thought you were going to correct Mr Dittrich on the fact that it is not Mrs Toorenburg, but Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I will. Given the time available, I would nevertheless like to move towards the second term of the Chamber. If you don't mind, I'll allow you two more brief questions. Then there will be the conclusion of the Minister and then we will go to the second term of the Chamber. Mr Nicolaï has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u223	I got the impression that the Minister was about at the end of his reply, but I had asked another question. I said, if you introduce a new licensing system with a deadline, and all the implementing agencies say, "By God, that's unfeasible!', Then you're not gonna do that, are you? Now all the agencies that have to implement it have also said that it is unfeasible. It gives me a bit of a nasty taste anyway. Mr Van Dijk has rightly pointed out that we have had an expert, the public prosecutor and the case law, who have simply given us factual information. There is a bit of a suggestion that we have just been taken in the boat. But if that's actual information... Either we're in the boat, or I'd like to hear it from the Minister or it's actual information from the performers. And those performers say it's not right. Then I really want to know from the Minister how he looks at this. I'd rather not hear another whole cloud of arguments. But how does he look at the fact that the actual performers say: it is not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u224	I'd like a brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u225	Then we need to clarify what's wrong. But let us make it quite clear, because otherwise I might provoke Mr Nicolaï's displeasure that I would talk woollylyly, as he just said, I believe. If I have read it all correctly, this initiative proposal stems from the fact that there was a practice described by the initiators, which mainly leads to a fairly long time before a building is actually evacuated. Well, I guess I'm not going to go into the details of how these interim proceedings work out. This bill aims to regulate this differently, with a shorter treatment period. That is what the government says: we do have concern or almost all cases of this kind you have to talk about, because there will always be an exception because someone had corona or whatever happens in those 72 hours. That is the comment made by the cabinet. It has also been said that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary say: we think that we have really solved this problem in the meantime. The question of whether this is to be found is more a matter for discussion with the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u226	Thank you. Then I'm going to finish this term now. You can't say I haven't been generous with interruptions, but this was really the last one. Minister, are you almost at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u227	I would like to say one more thing to Mr Nicolaï: perhaps we can talk about this in the second term. There has been a moment's discussion about the question: can you still bring interim proceedings even in this situation? However, this will not be suspensive for a decision by the judge-in-chief, unless the person concerned is aware that a month ago we saw a fine example of this following the curfew, calling the judge-in-chief and saying: would you please suspend it, because there is a very serious interest? The chances of this happening will be very low, because they have the chance to be heard from the Judge Commissioner. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u228	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u229	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the initiators, the minister and their supporters for answering all the questions. The Council of State is fundamentally critical of the proposal and considers that the need for an entirely new procedure has not been sufficiently demonstrated. The prosecution has called on the members of this Chamber to refrain from placing the criminal justice chain on the agenda of incidents and to vote against this law. The representative of the Court of Justice has urged members not to adopt this bill. The VNG has explicitly stated in its position paper that it is not in favour of this bill. They're all important chain partners. Why do we not listen to the opinions of the Council of State and the enforcers of this law? You'd expect us to know better after the nitrogen crisis and the supplementing affair, it's been mentioned earlier. Initiator Van Toorenburg tries to convince the Chamber with passion and terrifying examples of the seriousness of cracking, but today it is not an ideological discussion about cracking. It is about living in a rule of law and respecting the laws we make of the Constitution and fundamental rights, as enshrined in the ECHR and interpreted by the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court. That's what today is about. When I look at the content of this law and our responsibility when it comes to assessing the necessity, its feasibility and its legality, the proposal is not sufficiently thought-out as far as my group is concerned. The lack of respect for these fundamental rights is essential. In my first term, I thought about it extensively, and the answers of the initiators and the minister have not taken away our concerns. Then there is the feasibility and effectiveness. We have heard from the experts that the legislative proposal leads to greater use of investigative, prosecution and hearing capacity, costly and scarce efforts, with an adverse effect on the proposal. Because, on balance, there are more squatters' cases for a proportionality test before the courts. So one could also say that there is more legal protection for squatters rather than less and that it would be quicker, but it is obviously a stripped-up procedure. Now it is true that I have so much faith in our case law that I assume that the Judge Commissioner will do everything in his power to restore the procedural guarantees, with the result that this costly effort will be taken up even more and that there will also be an important result that there will be no time savings. That is what we have heard from the experts. And that saving of time is precisely the purpose of this proposal. A quick evaluation because there is doubt about the effectiveness of this law is a tissue for bleeding. A precious cloth, because in the meantime, the law will be rolled out. As far as my group is concerned, this cannot be the intention. If there is any doubt to this extent about the necessity, feasibility and legality of a legislative proposal, then there is only one thing this Chamber can do, and that is to vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u230	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u231	The PVV thanks the initiators and the minister for answering all the questions. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her passionate contribution. I personally enjoyed it, unlike others, but there's nothing I can do about it. Mr. Chairman. Today, I hear arguments about the legal status of squatters and property owners, about the feasibility of this bill and, in particular, about the capacity problems in the police, court and prosecutors. Kraken is prohibited by law and adequate enforcement is required. You do trouble at the source. For example, it works with regard to care, more hands on the bed, with regard to housing shortage, building more homes and limiting immigration, and also in this case. If enforcement is compromised by capacity problems, then it should be triggered, to the left or to the right. In doing so, I look at our Minister for Justice and Security. Well, he's not looking back, so that's a bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u232	He'll find out. I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u233	I will return this to my group and come up with our final judgment next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u234	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I found it, all over the world today, at times a complicated debate with each other, almost as complicated as my notes that I'm about to make chocolate out of. I asked a question that wasn't answered directly. My question was: what about the annoyance from 2017? I think I have understood from the answer that it has not yet been completely removed. I have also noticed that, with a great deal of certainty, things are sometimes presented in a simplified form. Big words are used. "There will soon be an end to squatting as a housing model." I have great doubts about that. It is said that matters are simple, that the concern of the public prosecutor is overwhelmed and unnecessary, and that the judiciary also does not have to worry. What I see today in this debate is, above all, that the authors have previously determined their views on how to balance ownership and house law. That is their right, but that consideration, also in the proposal they make themselves, has an outcome that you simply cannot lay down in advance in a law. It is also not the case, as I heard one of the proposers say, that the house law comes up again somewhere in the back of the line, perhaps, far away. No, it will be dealt with directly, also in this bill, at the time when the judge's right of ownership is being reviewed by the court commissioner. In the final analysis, including in this legislative proposal, it is up to the judge-supervisor, who will consider it himself, without giving priority to any of the rights in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u236	I would like to ask, on behalf of the President, whether you also believe that cracking is a criminal offence. 'Cause when I hear you talk like that, it's like you think it's more normal for a place to be hacked than for someone to stand up for their property rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u237	You're asking that on my behalf? Or through me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u238	I understand, Mr President, that you are interested in that. I will try to answer Mrs Bezaan on your behalf. No, I don't think anything's normal. If crackling has become a criminal offence in 2010 according to the law, then it is a criminal offence. Only, we are talking here today about the legal procedure that goes with it: the balancing, as the Council of State points out, as the judiciary points out, as the Public Prosecutor states, as our legislation indicates, which needs to be made. That is what I am calling attention to. So it's about the legal procedure. It's gotta be clean. The Minister has said it a number of times. 72 hours might be possible, but with the guarantees, as the cabinet also says, to be followed. This is one of the safeguards contained in it: that this consideration must be made. Contrary to the arguments put forward by the proposers, that is a consideration that the judge-supervisor has to make. I'm not going in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u239	I understand, but my question was... you've answered that by now. It's as if you're hacking an even more approve when you're talking about making a trade-off. That has just been mentioned: weighing the owner's right against the right of the squatter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u240	Brief question, Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u241	Do you share my opinion that there... Of course there has to be a trade-off. In your view, it occurs, you make me appear... In my view, you make it appear... I almost choke on it like you've already made the trade-off in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u242	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u243	I wouldn't want that. On the contrary, I am in favour of leaving it purely to the judge-supervisor, who makes the decision. So I have no preference here. I do detect a preference among the initiators. I'm just saying, you can't and can't have that preference, because it's up to the judge-chief to put an open test in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u244	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u245	And I hope you'll be all right! Mr. Chairman. What I was disappointed about in the contribution was that no distinction was made between the situation at the time of the legislative proposal and the situation after the policy change by the triangle. That makes it a little complicated for me to separate the facts, the fiction and the emotion from each other in the examples that are mentioned. I was just sorry to hear that, because that makes it harder for me. It has been said with a great deal of certainty, as we also heard at the expert meeting, that owners want this bill. I do not know how you say that through the chairman but: yes, thank you the cuckoo or thank the chairman the cuckoo! In any case, it makes sense that if you tell owners that within three days you solve everything that takes three weeks, they say: yes, I do! Who wouldn't want to? Next thing you know from practice, it's not gonna be him. When I put that question to the owners' association, they said: if it doesn't work within three days, it gets even slower and it doesn't get any better, then I don't want it either. Of course they want those three days, but we've heard in practice that it's not gonna be him those three days. So here a lot of people are gonna be disappointed. Mr. Chairman. The initiators have a desire to end cracking as a housing model. That's what they wrote this proposal for. We check here in the First Chamber on the rule of law, enforceability and feasibility. That's what this room does. We are not Stichting Doe een Wish, where such wishes have to be approved. This is the First Chamber. It's testing on these components. The initiators almost sketched the picture that everything we have heard from the public prosecutor, the judiciary, the legal profession and the VNG is the reality. If I put all that together, I think it's gonna get a little complicated. We have heard the Minister say that he is against gambling legislation, because you should not do that to the implementation. The whole implementation chain says: don't do this to us! And yet we are told by the Minister: no, this is not gambling legislation. At the same time, we hear from the entire implementation chain that this is gambling legislation. In fact, this isn't even a gamble; we just know this isn't gonna work. Mr. Chairman. I note that the initiators have put forward their own views with caution and have left little room for doubt. I also note that they are very dissatisfied with how the cabinet has acted since 2017 to put an end to what they have written this bill for. At the same time, the whole implementation chain thinks it is not going to work and the initiators think it is. That's about the end of it. This makes a continuation of discussion more an exchange of theories than an exchange of facts. That is why I have no further questions to the initiators and to the Minister. And you may conclude from my contribution that I will advise my group to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u246	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Short question, Mr. Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u247	I do not think I can convince Mr Janssen now with one question, but I have heard the Minister say that this 72 hours could be done and that at least it is an improvement in the current situation, even if it takes a little longer. So there's really a gear. Or am I the only one who heard that? I did not hear you mention this in the list of things that you conclude at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u248	I have heard the Minister say that, according to the Cabinet, it could be done on paper within 72 hours provided that all guarantees are respected. This means, in my view, that, if we listen to the practice of implementation, we may be talking here about a reality in The Hague on paper and not about reality. For the reality is that the whole chain says: do not do this to us! They come with the very explicit advice: do not adopt this law, because this is going to cause us a lot of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u249	Thank you. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Kraken is not allowed; it is punishable. That's easy. To reassure Mrs. Bezaan... Oh, I don't see her now; then I can't reassure her. Then, to reassure her groupmates: my experience of cracking has been a while now, but that is not just a celebration, not even in my view and in my group. You're gonna run into a lot of shit. It is, by the way, a mixed picture; it is not just misery. But all that aside. The Minister claims that the rc may give more guarantees than the court hearing the interim measures. I think I'm gonna follow him in there. In any case, he gives more guarantees for the cracker, because he is a suspect, I really must say 'the person suspected of cracking', where the minister is right in saying that, and in any case, he can invoke all the rights and guarantees of criminal law. And indeed, if the judge commissioner is doing well, then those safeguards are fine. But then you won't have a quick procedure. That's exactly where it wrings here. That is exactly what the comments of experts on this law were about. Then the conclusion is: it costs a lot, including capacity, and it doesn't solve or at least doesn't solve enough what it needs to solve, namely acceleration. There is another small point I would like to make. That interim action works with the representation of the collective. The lawyer's just standing there on behalf of all the squatters. Criminal law is individual. So it has to be 10, 15, 20 times. The minister seemed to suggest that criminal law also works with collectives, but that is not the case. A lawyer can only say: I am speaking on behalf of client A, B and C. Then another point I wanted to make. The owner's legal status is weakened. I doubt it accelerates; if it accelerates, it is in the interests of the owner. But his status is weakened, while the squatter's position is strengthened. My next point. You can agree with the prosecution and the judiciary or not; that doesn't really matter, because they have to implement this law when it is passed. Of course they will. As the Minister himself said, they do so very carefully and qualityfully. That is why they say: do not do this to us, because this is not happening in that very fast way. Again, that is exactly the essence of their advice: we are going to do this carefully; we are going to do this carefully and full of tests, and that takes time. We have discussed all the elements that need to be met in the course of the debate. That's a lot different than a wiretap, a lot different. Then I come to my final point. That's just that I want to say thank you. I thought it was a nice, passionate debate. It was an energetic defense; I like that. That keeps us awake and indeed brings us to the core. It has not convinced my group; that is what I am saying. This will not be surprising, especially given the role of the First Chamber in terms of the quality of legislation. Mr. Koerhuis, good luck with your next term in the Chamber. We hope to see you back here. Mrs Van Toorenburg, thank you for the eleven years you have worked as a Member of Parliament. It was 11, wasn't it? Fourteen, in fact. Okay. Seven of them we have done together, and now we have done again today. I've done it with great pleasure. Thanks for all the good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u251	Thank you. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I look at the debate we have had today, I cannot escape the impression that it sometimes looked like a kind of roast by Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Van Toorenburg. She betrayed in her fervent plea that she indeed has fourteen years of experience as a Member of Parliament. She defended their bill with passion. That was good to see. As far as the content is concerned, I have to say the following. We as First Chamber members really need to look at care. We also need to see whether a bill is feasible, enforceable and legal. I believe that these quality standards, the standards that we should set, do not meet this bill. I have to say that honestly on behalf of my group. Very briefly, because there is no point in repeating these arguments: although I see that the initiator of Van Toorenburg has said that it is not a marginal review, it is very close to that in the explanation. If we then look at how the chain partners behave and advise us, we find that they say: no, you should not adopt this bill; do not do this to us, because in practice we cannot get away with it. But if we look at how the practice developed after the initiative proposal was presented, we find that the chain partners say that the problems as outlined are no longer present in Amsterdam practice. From this you can conclude that the initiators have indeed achieved results with their own initiative legislative proposal, because the practice has changed and these problems are far less common: 80% less than at the time, so they have informed us. Proper justification is needed. In his letter of 18 March, the Minister said: well, that must be demonstrated by practice; after three years or earlier we have an evaluation. I do not think that is a good way to look at legislation. Executableness is important for First Chamber members when they judge a bill. On the basis of what all the chain partners are reporting to us, I will recommend to my group that this bill be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u253	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first term I mentioned for a while my only experience with cracking in Amsterdam. I mentioned the entrepreneur Ozcan. I know his story. We took it on board for him, too. I was present at the surprise by We Are Here of a list of rental houses in Amsterdam-Oost, where a resident came from in the shower and found a squatter in her living room. I was in Zuidoost, where behind a forced door of a supermarket was an indescribable chaos, and where the neighbors didn't feel safe. Mr. Chairman. In short, I share Mrs Van Toorenburg's emotion and urgency in her account, and I know the stories of the people who are the victims of cracks from the first hand. As has been said, my party strongly supports a tough approach to this phenomenon. We probably disagree with Mr Recourt's Labour Party, and Mr Dittrich's D66 and Mrs Veldhoen's GroenLinks' D66. But this debate was never about the sense and nonsense of cracking or a judgment of value on cracking. So I really understand the involvement of the proposers, but the debate we had here was mainly legal and practical. On the legal front, however, I do hear some constitutional questions of some importance, particularly those raised by Mr Recourt, Mr Dittrich and Mr Veldhoen. Regardless of their ideological position on cracking, I consider these questions to be legitimate, and I do not think the answers so far are satisfactory. In practical terms, there is capacity and priority. As I understand it now from the answer given by the Minister, it is simply the case that, following the possible introduction of this bill, I quote: 'choice must be made, inter alia, by the police and the public prosecutor'. Yeah, I understand that those choices need to be made, but that's the problem. They must do so now, even without the likely additional burden this initiative law will bring. I have also noted that, once the political will is there, even in rigid left Amsterdam, sometimes the ship is quickly finished cracking. The triangle has intervened on that terrible late-but-go policy, on that non-empty-for-empty bullshit, and that has had an effect. That just helped. In my view, the criticisms made by the Council for Justice and the Public Prosecutor at last week's session, and earlier by the Council of State and the UNG, about the need for this law, have not been sufficiently refuted. One simple example: I would also like to see Mr Nicolaï's specific question answered with a very specific answer. If you want to deal with a group of squatters, it's never one, can you do it at once with a group, or should you do it one at a time? That's a pretty relevant point for the load it gives the chain. And is there any time savings? This has remained vague in the reply. Once again, I would like to express my thanks to the authors for the submission. I also fully understand the desire to tackle this problem. I cannot emphasize enough how much I feel about this urgency and how much I feel about the brutality of the whole concept. But my 'but' has not been removed, because the effectiveness and legitimacy of this proposal are not yet fully clear to me. I ask the authors once again to try to convince me. Maybe I'm a little less legal than some here, so maybe it should be in a little simpler words and shorter sentences. I don't know. Try again. How do you explain, despite the objections of the Council of State, the VNG, the Public Prosecutor, the police and so on, that this initiative legislative proposal will work better and faster in practice than the current legislation on this matter? Again, I will really listen to this with an open mind and I will base my judgment on that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u255	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also a word of thanks to the initiators. I thank Mr Koerhuis for his answers. I am glad that my qualification of Mrs Van Toorenburg as "familiar" was confirmed here as well. I have called for attention to be paid to the repression of other criminal cases by the new procedure as it is intended. Since Mr Koerhuis saw that I spoke to the Minister separately, I would be grateful if he could comment on that. The Minister says: hear my heart cry, because it is precisely with the prosecutor and the judiciary that we must ensure that additional investments are made. I don't know if he agrees, but you could say that it would be possible to do so to carry out the new procedure. I am curious to see how this is being looked at. I believe that something will happen to a new coalition agreement on the other side in the long run, but in the shorter term you will have to deal with a greater workload. Mr Koerhuis has also acknowledged this. How is that going to lead to displacement and are we happy with that? Of course, it also has to do with the rule of law. You can say that the state of law has to do with different things. On behalf of the CDA Group, I have expressed my appreciation for the initiative proposal. Why? Because then as a citizen, you can get your rights when your property is occupied and it takes too long. This is supported by the Council's figures for the case-law. The initiators want to meet that part of the rule of law. They confirmed that, too. So I understand the words of the initiators a little when they say that they hear so little about it. Maybe they have a point in that regard, because that is something that we in the First Chamber are also talking about. But we are also talking about home law, which I agree with colleagues, the question of the ECHR. I must say that, frankly, I am a little shocked by the intransigence and perhaps the almost biased view as to whether this procedure complies with Article 13 of the ECHR. We just have to be honest about it: we have no precedent for this; we can't. What I see happening, and I tried to explain it in my first period of interruptions, is that Article 13 is confused with Article 6. Perhaps that is also an answer to the question that Mrs Nanninga has just raised. We are not dealing here with criminal prosecution, where you have that kind of safeguards under Article 6. I have to admit that Mrs Van Toorenburg has also raised this point. No, we are dealing here with the question of whether you have an effective remedy at your disposal if you are affected by your rights on the basis of the ECHR. That question was answered in 2011. I do not think it is justified to say that that judgment leads you to the conclusion that this procedure is not appropriate in the light of Article 13. That is simply not possible, because the Court itself says in the judgment that Article 13 does not even go so far as to necessarily be a judge. As the Minister said, we may go a little far by demanding legal intervention at every evacuation. That's right; that goes on. Besides, he's an independent judge. That is what the judgment says in so many words. That's all it says. I think we should be a little modest in criticizing the initiators for simply putting forward an illegal proposal here. I would like to leave it at that. I am going to present this proposal to the group. We're all gonna discuss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u257	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the authors of the proposal for a resolution. The Minister is also grateful. Mr. Chairman. Kraken is a hard blow to the face of the rightful owners. There is no difference of opinion between the applicants and the SGP. But is this bill really helping to make the law run better and faster? Are owners getting ahead of themselves with this? That is what this debate is about. Mr. Chairman. When reading the note following the report and during the debate, it was already striking that the initiators made a huge number of assumptions: the assumption that enforcement of the cracking ban would be improved, the assumption that there would be less crackdown in the medium term, the assumption that the rc could in principle decide within 72 hours, the assumption that considerable time savings would be assumed, the assumption that the delivery of a cracking dossier would be a relatively simple matter, the assumption that the rc would approve the requested evacuation in almost all cases, the assumption that the number of sessions would increase, the assumption that it would not go beyond Article 13 of the ECHR and so on. In fact, all these assumptions are radically contested by experts and by all judicial chain partners, with the Public Prosecutor and the Council paying particular attention to the case-law. I think this is a very difficult conclusion. Nor does it help the SGP that the Minister does not give a clear appreciation of the serious concerns expressed by the justice partners. Nothing stands in the way of the Secretary of State helping this Chamber to get the facts straight? With so much resistance and doubt from the field, the SGP does not think it wise to push through. It's not a question of "if it doesn't, then it doesn't harm." Ideologically speaking, the SGP would like to support the proposal blindly: tackle those squatters now! But rationally speaking, I think the risk of this bill having more disadvantages than benefits in terms of effectiveness and taxation of the justice chain is too great. The SGP is for a firm, effective approach to squatters. Therefore, the SGP does not now have any boldness to say yes to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u259	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Nicolaï, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer, too. After Mrs Bezaan, I also say: cracking is certainly a crime. I think everyone agrees on that. Today, however, it is not about the criminal prosecution of squatters, but about the restoration of owners in their property rights. The use of this bill is actually that it goes better and faster. However, the damage suffered will not be repaired with this recovery. I had raised a question on this, because this point remains a mystery to me. Why wasn't there thought of a compensation fund? For example, we have a Damage Fund for Violent Crimes. You could have thought of a compensation fund for this kind of crime. Probably would have been more helpful to the owners. You can go even further, because you could have thought of more administrative enforcement. If not evacuated in time, I think that under circumstances you can appeal to the government from the point of view of disadvantage compensation for the damage caused by the lack of timely evacuation. In fact, these are alternatives that our group does not believe have given sufficient thought to. Then we come to this bill and the quality test. It is quite clear that the squatting carousel is no longer on the agenda. Mr Dittrich has read it again in his response to the Minister. That's exactly what it says. Then what's the only profit? That's the time savings. I hear the Minister say that the basis for this will have to be proved in practice. Then we in the First Chamber are faced with a question. Because we've heard the experts from the D.A. and the judiciary and the lawyers. They say that these savings of time and the way in which the initiators think to achieve them are not at issue. I would therefore like to ask the initiators and, above all, the Minister whether that is bullshit. I got a little bit of the impression that the First Chamber was just set up by the judges and the prosecutors who threw a party and so on... I have not heard that the Minister has distanced himself from that. I didn't hear the Minister say it wasn't bullshit. But if it is not bullshit, then we have to take that into consideration or it is sufficiently plausible that that basis for this bill is present, I ask the Minister. If it is not bullshit, then we simply have to note that it is not sufficiently plausible that the profits achieved by this bill, according to the initiators, will be on the agenda. This already means that when we, as the First Chamber, carry out that quality test, we should actually consider that an insufficient one should be distributed. That is what I will introduce to my group. But it's worse, because I foresee that not only the D.A. and the judge commissioner will get a lot more work. In all cases where this is not necessary at the moment, an authorisation must be requested which leads to hearings with hearing etcetera, etcetera. At the same time, squatters will instruct their lawyers to simply initiate interim proceedings. And that opportunity will be particularly present when it appears that the Judge Commissioner is carrying out a semi-marginal review, and not a full review, in my opinion, in accordance with the purpose of the review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u261	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Arbouw on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiators and the minister for their often passionate answer to the questions. For my group, there has been more clarity about the workload and the number of cases that are added to the public prosecutor's notice and certainly also about the interpretation of what it means for the procedure and the workload of the judge Commissioner. In addition, my group has also been strengthened by this debate in the view that the position of the owner is not properly regulated at the moment. In any event, this debate has been valuable to my group. Thank you for that. As far as I am concerned, a question to the Minister has not been answered. That's the next question. Does the Minister estimate that the present initiative proposal actually has a preventive effect and in the medium term leads to fewer cases and ultimately less workload for the prosecutor and police? How's he gonna figure that out? So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u263	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. The initiators have requested a short suspension. Then we'll suspend until 6:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u264	I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u265	Mr. Chairman. Squatters are actually burglars and cracking is a crime, a crime that, with the current policy of the prosecution and with the current procedures, lasts on average four weeks, even if the aim is not to last more than two to three weeks. That is too long and unacceptable for us. That's why we want to take this back to three days. The question of the compensation fund has indeed not been answered. We think it's the opposite world. The squatters do damage and the taxpayer has to pay. That's the upside-down world. It's not an alternative to the bill. The squatters have to pay, or better yet, the whole squat model has to be broken. That's what the bill does. So basically no. I do, however, share the view of my co-initiator that it is of course possible to consider whether a municipality can contribute to the payment if the enforcement of the squatting ban is deliberately undermined by that municipality, as Amsterdam did with the call for failure to report and not act in the act. There were a few more questions. I'm trying to explain it in human language. I'm not a lawyer either, so maybe that'll help. The D.A.'s file consists of the declaration, the owner, the building and the group of squatters. For the court commissioner's file, there is also the hearing of the squatters and the verdict. Hence in principle three days: reading the file of the prosecutor, hearing the squatters and the pronunciation. That's actually been on three days. Only, we're not waiting for the first seven days in which the D.A. makes that announcement on the premises: they're being evacuated, unless you're planning an interim injunction. We are not waiting for interim measures to be planned, and we do not have to wait for the decision in the interim proceedings, because these three things are now happening in succession in those three days. The question is whether the discussion is here, or whether three days can be according to the ECHR. We think so. In principle, the cabinet also thinks that it can. Then about the practice in Amsterdam. I may not have made myself clear. I want to say two things about it. Undoubtedly, the policy in Amsterdam has improved under pressure from our bill. However, I would like to say that I fear that this improvement will soon come to an end in Amsterdam if the pressure of our legislative proposal is removed. Hence the call: support the bill. And then again, the improved Amsterdam policy is on the national average. The aim is to allow the crime to last two to three weeks. On average, it's four weeks. That's too long. Then I will finish with the call to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u266	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u267	I hear Mr Koerhuis say here that we should vote mainly for the bill because he fears that everything will be reversed quickly in Amsterdam if it doesn't get through. I think that's a pretty serious insinuation. I say it a little bit in my words, but I think that was about what you said. You said: then I fear it will be soon...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u268	No, that was the argument from this Chamber. Amsterdam has improved its policy, its approach to cracking, under pressure from this bill. I would just like to point out that if this Chamber removes that pressure, the logical consequence is that the policy there will deteriorate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u269	That's an assumption, but there's no sign of that, is there? It may well be that Amsterdam feels that it is doing a lot better, that it is doing justice to everyone, in a way that they consider desirable in Amsterdam, and that they continue in this way? Mr. Koerhuis is insinuating something I don't think he can make hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u270	I'm following the assumptions in this room. Still, I keep saying that the improved Amsterdam policy... The aim is still to allow a crime to last two to three weeks, on average four weeks, and that is just too long. You can and you have to go back to three days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u271	Thank you. I shall see if Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to speak. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. You heard me in the first term, and then it is. If you think otherwise, that's just democracy. That's how it works. That's just nice. That's why you can take the freedom to bring your arguments to the fore. I am also glad that something has actually happened because of the hot breath of this bill, which I think is also recognised. Paying attention to others other than just those in the first chain has simply been effective. Everyone here today says: we've heard the whole chain and everyone is against it. But that is not true; we must recognise that with each other. You didn't hear the police. You have not heard the police as we have heard in the House of Representatives. It has really indicated: this can no longer be done. I'd like to give that to you. You've heard the prosecutor's office, the justice system, and of course the law. That's true; that's what I'm going with. But you didn't hear the police. The police have made it very clear that more needs to be done. As far as the VNG is concerned, things are different. Actually, right now, we're making the victim of a crime dependent on a local triangle to see if something's gonna happen or not. I'm worried about that. I believe that a victim of a crime in Maastricht should have the same rights as a victim of a crime in Amsterdam. When people say "don't report it, owners, because we're not doing anything about it," you're out of the question in Amsterdam. I don't think that's possible. That's why I think it's important to point out that we're making a law for the whole country. Everyone must have the same rights. But Mrs. Nanninga has challenged me, I say honestly. I'd really like to answer her question. She asked: can you briefly explain in plain human language what is happening here? I can tell you that, I say through the chairman. I have seen both the procedures: a summary procedure and a procedure with the judge commissioner. De facto, they do exactly the same thing: they make a factual balance of interests. One is a fully rigged procedure, which takes a very long time, with a lot of planning, publicity and the works, so with all the horns and bells around it. The other is de facto exactly the same, namely a balancing of interests, but it is quick, short, intrusive, and it is only about the problem or a power to be used here. That's the crucial difference. We think it is important for an independent judge to look at something, but we really think it can be done faster. An interim order calls for a courtroom. It's different in this procedure. It is, in fact, the same balance of interests, but one that is completely rigged. You could also ask the question differently: why wouldn't we much rather give a judge commissioner this power than we put up a whole Christmas tree with exactly the same result? That is why I ask for your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u273	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Then I'll look at the Minister of Justice and Security. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u274	Mr President, briefly. Mr Nicolaï had a few more points that I thought I had already answered, but one of them came back to Mrs Nanninga: the question about the squatters group. In practice, a group of squatters is usually represented by a lawyer or spokesperson. For the moment, the proposal assumes that this will not be any different now. I have said before that it is ultimately up to the rc to decide how that is to be done in practice. Mr Nicolaï asked me to respond once again to those critical signals. The cabinet understands the concerns of the advisory bodies. It is also important that these have emerged at the expert meeting. A clear view of the consequences will eventually be provided during the period when the bill is in force and evaluated. I have already said this in the first place in response to a question from one of the other Members. I think that was Mr Recourt. Mr Nicolaï suggested, undoubtedly with the best of intentions, that I said that there would not have been any sound justification. I would like to emphasise that it has been shown that there is. That's what the Council of State says. It is only when this evaluation is carried out that it will be necessary to establish whether something is actually going to be done in practice. That's why we have law reviews. Otherwise we could simply abolish the whole instrument. For the cabinet, there is really no place for judgment on that point either. So the cabinet awaits that. Mr Van Dijk actually said that there is no clear appreciation of the bill. I have read it again and I can bring it up again, but the cabinet says it sees no major objections to this bill. I have made it very clear what the government's concern is in those 72 hours. I believe that I recognize from Mr Van Dijk, for example, but also from other Members, that we may share this concern somewhat. But there have been a number of other concerns that I have said are different. That was a very interesting debate, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u275	I will respond to what the Minister has just said in response to my questions. It is established that, according to its own words, "the carousel' is no longer at issue. So the only thing left is the time savings. Then I said: if the D.A. and the Council of Justice and the lawyers say that this time-saving does not occur at all, is that bullshit? I didn't hear the Minister reflect on that. For if that is not bullshit, then it is certain that the plausibility of that virtue is not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u276	I repeat: the concerns expressed by the implementing organisations in the technical briefing, as I say, are well understood by the cabinet. But I have also explained that the authors of this self-substantiated bill say: we believe that this is a good approach to arrive at a decision much faster, but in a legally correct way. They have also motivated a weighting between how the system is now and how it will become. You will have heard me say, for example, in the first period, on a point which I believe Mr Nicolaï is correct, that the general rights in the case of the judge-supervisor are not being deprived of. So they'll play for example. The practice will have to show whether the well-founded time savings contained in it are being realised as well. I am going to repeat myself, but this is of course often the case with legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u277	Now we're going to repeat it. That is not the intention for the second term. Do you have another question, Mr. Nicolaï? I'm afraid that's the answer you're going to have to deal with. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to take up the letter that the Minister sent to the First Chamber last week, the letter of 18 March. In it he writes that the cabinet understands the fears expressed by the chain partners about the possible adverse effects of the proposal. We had a hearing and an expert meeting. All those chain partners are not afraid, saying: reject this bill. How can the Minister of Justice and Security say in this debate that there are no insurmountable objections if all those chain partners say: do not, this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u279	This can be said by the Minister of Justice and Security, because he has seen the justification, the underlying arguments and the objective of the legislative proposal, and with the Council of State that they are sound, that is an important point, and then that, from the point of view of practice, as it stands and in the explanatory memorandum and in other documents, an important time gain is made. Then I say: my concern, the concern of the cabinet.. I repeat myself again.. is at the point of those 72 hours. This must be achieved in the vast majority of cases, plus in a way that is constitutional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u280	But if you write, "I understand the concerns, the fear, the objections of the chain partners," then what good is that understanding of value, if you then say "but the bill can just go through"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u281	Well, yes, Mr President, the floor was addressed directly to me, but I will continue to address you. Look, of course, that concept has value, because by doing so I point out that in the concern expressed by the chain partners there is certainly an element that I look seriously at. But in my final weighing of the bill, I come to the weighting I have just indicated on behalf of the cabinet, namely: no major objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u282	I had a practical question open from the first term, namely whether the Minister wants to ensure that judgments of the judge-supervisor on this section are published on case law.nl, in order to make public in any case. Of course, the judge's rulings are not usually published.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u283	That's not up to me as Minister of Justice and Security. Any interested citizen or Member of Parliament may make an appeal to that effect. As Minister of Justice and Security, I am not going to tell the courts what to publish. That would be a really wrong world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u284	I get that. That is why I have put it nicely, as is quite common practice: do you want to raise this issue in your regular consultations and then at least pass on the request as I do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u285	I would simply like to point out that Mr Recourt said in this Chamber that it would be a good thing if that were to happen. That's how Mr Recourt knows me. But otherwise I can't formulate it, because then I'll be burned at the stake again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u286	Then we shall record a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u287	I hear the Minister say twice that the Council of State also supports the effectiveness of this bill, but I would like to take up the advice. In it, the Council of State makes comments on effectiveness. The Council considers that the proposal is not sufficiently justified in this respect. Further on, it says that the council advises to reconsider it, because the need for a whole new procedure has not been demonstrated. Afterwards, the justification has not been adjusted in such a way that you could say that the justification can bear the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u288	The Council of State states that it is sufficiently substantiated that the judicial commissioner's review can in principle take place within 72 hours. That's what I keep saying. As Mr Nicolaï rightly said, that is the essence and essence of this proposal. I say we can go through with it; we have no major objections to it. I always put the question behind that: okay, can that period always be sufficient in practice? Then I refer to that article of the law 551a, to paragraph 3: there must be a hearing and so on. But then I'm gonna repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u289	We're not gonna do that. Mrs. Veldhoen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u290	One last point, then. The Council of State is not limited to that point. It goes much further. The council also says: it is the question to what extent the intended time savings will be achieved effectively. Does that buy time justify a whole new procedure? The chain partners say it won't save time. So let me make it clear that the Minister says that the Council of State was positive about its effectiveness. I think the Council of State has made quite a few criticisms of that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u291	The Council of State has certainly criticised it, but, as I keep saying, the Council has said that this review by the Council can take place within 72 hours. That's des Pudels Kern of this bill. That's why I keep saying we have to be honest about that. The other points that are being raised are also there, but this is what the legislative proposal is about. And from that, the Council of State says it's well-founded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u292	Thank you, Minister. That puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u293	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-16.u294	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. That brings us to the end of the sitting. I thank all Members, I thank Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Van Toorenburg, I thank the Minister for Justice and Security and I thank the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
