ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on aggression against and threats to journalists. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. The same applies to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. It's nice to have her in our midst so quickly. I welcome Members of Parliament once again and also the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. We have many speakers. I suggest that in the first period you can put together up to four questions and comments, and six questions and comments to the directors. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you know me a little bit now, to do so briefly. Then we can make as much of you as we can today. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. She is also the applicant for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do you see his face? Remember this face. To the scandal with the NIS. Here k... here's the 100 questions you should be asking. Let's start with cancers with the microphone. Wake up at night because you smell a fire in your own house because fire bombs were thrown in. Being locked in your car with your partner and scared to death because your car gets driven into a ditch and turned around. Mr. Chairman. These are just four very moving examples of what happens to many, many journalists, press photographers and camera people. Eight out of ten journalists indicated in a survey this spring that they felt threatened or intimidated. More than half of all people interviewed indicate that it affects their work. It affects their work and our democracy. Because our democracy can function well if we have a free, safe press. Mr. Chairman. This is a very worrying situation. The good news is that this is on the retina of the Cabinet and our Chamber. A good initiative has been launched, PressSafe. All praise for that, but we do see that from all the conversations I have had with journalists that it is still not working out. It is a good initiative and a good idea to have contacts by police district, but journalists do not always know where to find these people. I ask the Minister how he intends to promote this. How does he ensure better communication between the good initiatives that exist and the people who need to make use of them? Mr. Chairman. I hear examples of journalists who report but then hear nothing back and examples of them being reported, but it takes a very long time for them to be dealt with. I also ask the Minister: what is he doing to improve and speed things up in implementation? Freelancers andzzp'ers form a large group of journalists who are particularly vulnerable, because they have less protection. Now there is a budget to protect them too if they are threatened. I ask the Minister: is he sure that the people who need it also make use of this budget? Another major problem is the addresses that are not protected. I ask the Secretary of State: why does she reject the motion tabled by my group, among other things, despite the opinion of the Personal Data Authority? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We have to tackle the problem at the root, otherwise the symptom control will continue. An important source of inciting and sedition of people are online platforms that are abused. I ask the Minister whether he acknowledges this and whether he is prepared to regulate those online platforms. It can't be that the President of PressSafely doesn't have a contact at Twitter, to name but a few. He does not enter a large online platform where all kinds of violence is pronounced. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I hope the Minister agrees with me that we cannot wait for European legislation. This needs to be addressed now. The problem is too big to leave. Finally, I think we should all look at ourselves. We cannot solve this problem as a society and as a political one if we do not address each other with inappropriate expressions. That's what I want to do here. I am looking specifically at the colleagues of the PVV and of the Forum for Democracy. If there is talk of "devil of the ledge" when it comes to journalists and it is said that journalists are undermining society, it does something in our society. That also affects the safety of journalists. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Then I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Aggression and violence against journalists are unacceptable and must be combated by all means possible. It is a sad observation that eight out of ten journalists indicate that they have been threatened, or have had to deal with aggression. That's what they just said. Independent journalism is of great importance to our democracy and must be guaranteed against aggressive scum. Therefore, action must be taken with a firm hand. Mr. Chairman. It is important that journalists who are threatened are adequately protected. The biggest operators need to be dealt with the hardest. Those are, of course, the members of the narco and mocromafia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	You've just begun, but there are already two interruptions. First of all, Mrs Van der Werf is from D66 and then Mr Van Baarle from DENK may. Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	I refer to the word'scum', which I heard Mr Markuszower say. It reminded me of a tweet by his group chairman, Mr Wilders of the PVV. He said: "Journalists are "exceptions left aside "just rigging of the ledge." Two days after Mr. Wilders placed this tweet, the death threats came into the NVJ. I would like to ask Mr Markuszower, who is a security spokesman with me, whether he thought this was a very good idea from his group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	I do not know exactly what tweets you are referring to, but for example on 6 July, so far for all the other tweets you just mentioned, Mr Wilders said, for example, that he is always against violence. Last year, far ahead of the tweet with'scum of the ledge', Mr Wilders even tabled a motion calling for additional protection for journalists who are threatened. Mr Wilders and the PVV have always advocated, since the beginning of the establishment, tough action against those who use or threaten violence and have always supported it specifically for journalists. So it is not our fault that we do not want to protect journalists, because we are the only party willing to do so by means of tough measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	That tweet of the ledge is of course no exception at all. Your group chairman also tweeted 'never trust them, those journalists' and 'they hate us; don't believe them'. Why do I say that? Because I think words from this Parliament matter. Your words also matter. The structural suspicion of journalists is really unacceptable for D66. A country without free press is usually also a country that is not very safe for its inhabitants. I believe that Mr Markuszower should be allowed to appeal to that as a spokesman for security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	I'll just read to you and then I'll give you an answer. On 25 January 2021, Geert Wilders said: "Aggression and violence are always out of the question and journalists must be able to do their work without being disturbed and without being confronted with aggression!" I do not think that the D66 spokesperson can take the view that sometimes saying something back can lead to violence or aggression. If the spokesperson of D66 meant that, she would have to jump in front of us if PVVs, for example, were to be thrown away in the news, in the newspapers, in talk shows or by colleagues here in the Chamber as racists, fascists or xenophobics. Mr Van Baarle is already at the interrupting microphone. I'm sure he's gonna say that PVV's are racist, xenophobic or Nazi. If D66 really believes that it is so terrible to say that this danger could lead to aggression, then it should certainly be for the PVV's too. So I don't think the D66 spokesperson can mean that. When a former police chief of Amsterdam told you to kill Geert Wilders, shoot him, shoot him, and the reporters on duty have just allowed it, I didn't hear anyone from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you. Mr Van Baarle van DENK, then Mrs Den Haan and then Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr Markuszower dares. He started again with a run-up to talk about Moroccan Dutch. Probably comes back with some kind of skull measurement theory that he's devised in his attic room, to spread it to people of different descent. But of course that's to hide his own role, because it's quite something. If your group leader tweetes that all journalists are scumbags and if your media spokesperson consistently says about the NPO that they are left-wing activists with a certain political purpose, then you are sowing a climate in which intimidation, threat and the molesting of journalists is normalized. I would almost say to Mr Markuszower: not everyone who mocks and intimidates journalists is from the PVV, but they are often PVV room members. Do you recognise that you yourself have a role to play in sowing hatred and creating a climate in which journalists are harassed? That's obvious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	I think journalists like John van den Heuvel or Paul Vugts are looking at this contribution by Mr Van Baarle from DENK with sadness. They are not molested or threatened and do not feel attacked by what I say here in the House of Representatives. Their colleague Peter R. de Vries was shot, but not by Henk or Ingrid, not by a PVV bomber, but by someone who is a member of the mocromafia. John van den Heuvel is protected, not because some of his colleagues are scum of the ledge. He's threatened by the mocromafia and because of the things he writes about the narcomafia. So let us not reduce everything to a few qualifications that are given over and over again. Suppose you are MPs of the PVV and are constantly being dismissed, including by journalists. Suppose, at the commemoration of the February strike, a comparison is made between PVV's and Nazis and that the NPO, which Mr Van Baarle of DENK just mentioned, is simply broadcasting. Again, suppose a former police chief says "that Wilders you just have to shoot, you have to kill" and the journalists and editors on duty don't intervene. And suppose the media is sticking Nazi pictures on PVV's or PVV's roommates. Then it's not so bad at all because journalists have broad shoulders to say: well, that's scum from the ledge. That's not the worst thing in the world you say. Sometimes people can be scum on the ledge, but that does not mean that they need to be treated with aggression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	Well, one more thing. Once again, the PVV, just Mr Wilders in front, in tweets, in insertion, in motions in this Chamber, in legislative proposals... The PVV always defends the safety of journalists. We believe it is very important that journalists should be able to do their important work in the interests of freedom and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	We certainly did not mention all the journalists scum of the ledge, because there are exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	I would ask you to be a little shorter, because there are a few more questions for you. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr Markuszower does it again, of course, in his answer: throwing it over the bow of origin. That's just disgusting. I'm gonna distance myself from that. That is discrimination, and that is generalisation. Generalization is the thing the PVV always does, not just with people of different origin; they also do it with journalists. Mr Wilders spoke about all the journalists when he said that journalists are scum. Mr Bosma talks about the whole NPO, when he talks about the fact that the NPO is a number of left-wing activists. That generalization, that suspicion of journalists, that's un-Dutch. That saws at the seat legs of an institute that is very important in the Netherlands. It's actually a form of political treason, and you need to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr Markuszower and then Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	Big words, all of them. I should like to ask you again: what does Mr Van Baarle think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	No, we're not gonna ask each other any questions back. Soon Mr Van Baarle will come with his input and you will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	Then I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	I would like to ask Mr Markuszower the following question. Do you agree with me that we as a people's representative have an exemplary role to play?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	I agree with everyone who says that people's representatives should primarily represent the interests of their voters in this Chamber. They have to control the government and they have to comply with the law like all the other Dutch. It would be nice if all Members of Parliament, like the PVV, were to defend the security and freedom of everyone in the Netherlands, but certainly of journalists, who perform an important task in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	That is a long answer, but I only interpret it as: yes, you also think that we, as a representative of the people, have an exemplary role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mrs Den Haan has the floor and you will be back. Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	Do you realise that, at the time when your group chairman calls journalists scum of the ledge, others are also inciting aggressive, non-verbal violence? That people are gonna think that's normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	No, I don't think so. I think a lot of people recognize themselves in those words. I think a lot of people think, "Yeah, damn it, it's scum from the ledge." But that doesn't mean you have to treat them with aggression. That's what we've been saying for 15 years. Mr Wilders has been saying for 15 years that no one should be treated with aggression or violence, especially journalists. A year ago, he tabled a motion calling on the cabinet to better protect and defend them. We are one of the few groups that argue for harsh sentences for people who do so. So no, one doesn't rule out the other. If you are put away as a racist, xenophobic, fascist or Nazi, then you can say back "scum of the ledge." It's not all that bad. Let's not overdo it here. There are journalists in the Netherlands who are really threatened, who are now afraid for their lives. And then we're all whining about a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	You say "bitch about a few words," but words can be picked up as very aggressive. It's also non-verbal violence. It's not supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	That's not supposed to happen, is it? I don't know if it's non-verbal violence. You have to sometimes... Again, if you're being yelled at or thrown away as a Nazi, don't you think it's okay to say something back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	I know Mr Markuszower as someone who would always want to stand up for freedom. That's what I'm missing in his contribution. Because if there's something that does freedom right, then it's independent journalism. And if there is something that both Mr Markuszower and I benefit from as parliamentarians, it is that journalists do their report, that they question power, that they show where things are wrong. His party leader's tweet was "journalists' exceptions, with the exception of scum of the ledge," saying that the whole profession is scum of the ledge, with a few exceptions. That is a way of qualifying which I hope Mr Markuszower will reject when it comes to parliament, although there is also talk of a 'fake parliament'. That is why I ask him: what does freedom mean to him? If it supports our rule of law and democracy, and he deals with it in this way, it is a very limited freedom that applies to a small group of people. I can't imagine. What does freedom mean to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	I fully agree with the first part of Mrs Bikkers' contribution, namely that journalists perform a very important task in our rule of law. That is why we, in particular, believe that journalists should be protected and able to do their job in all their freedom and security, even if they are scumbags. We have again tabled a motion in favour of extending the possibilities of protecting them. Then I'll come to the second. What is freedom for us? Freedom is also, of course, a right to say what you think of something. If someone, a whole professional group, an entire organization, or a whole newspaper editorial team, simply participates in the systematic removal of PVV-Room members like Nazis, fascists, xenophobics and racists, then every now and then, at regular intervals, you can say: scum of the ledge. It's okay. But you have to say right away: never violence, never aggression. That has always happened: before, after, during, in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	Now Mr Markuszower will reflect on how he and his party are sometimes treated and approached. I can imagine that some of those things are absolutely wrong. Then I stand beside him and then I stand alongside colleagues who need to be protected, because this cannot be done. But what was going on here? An article had been published on the behaviour of a colleague of Mr Markuszower, of which absolutely journalistic work could be made. Let's be honest about that. And then you start acting like the rest of us are all stupid and you're the only one walking the size here. You use very big words here that do not match the actions shown in the tweet. It shows in practice what that freedom is worth to you. It's only worth something to you the moment it suits you. That's what it looks like. You do not say: even if it is critical, even if it is about me, I will uphold journalism. I regret that, but I am pleased with all the warm words you have said, because that means that we will not see it again. That is a wonderful gain from this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	Well, the author of that article just before the election, which contained a lot of lies, is quite scum. So that was a good qualification. But once again, never aggression, never violence, never threaten with it, if it does, act hard and always protect journalists to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	First Mr Kwint, then Mrs Michon-Derkzen and then Mr Van Baarle. First of all, Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	I'm kind of listening to this and I think it's, frankly, an appallingly weak story. If we are talking about PVVs as Mr Markuszower just said, for example by the former police chief who says something like that, then I agree with him that that is not possible. Then the PVV is the first to say: "That is demonizing! We're being blackmailed. You need to know where all this is going. You should know what the words of someone can lead to in practice!" You're right about that. But when it comes to journalists, it's like, "Well, it's okay to push back some time. We've always said that these people shouldn't use violence. And a lot of people agree." Yeah, go check with the director of the NVJ, the journalism union; it's true that a lot of people agreed. Those people have all e-mailed death threats that way. I am not saying that you do, but what we ask of you is: think about it. Because if one party should know what the consequences of some words could be for people's safety, then your party should be. And then you have to be consistent. Then you must also stand for the safety of those journalists and take your own role into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	Again, we stand for the safety of journalists. That equation is disproportionate. If a Van Riessen, former police chief, says "that Wilders you have to kill" or if you are constantly put away as Nazis and Nazis you have to shoot, of course, because that's what you do with Nazis; something else you can't do with Nazis, so that's what it's meant to mean. Even Mr Kwint of the SP must understand that it is disproportionate to compare these two. If you live in a climate where you are consistently put away and where you are consistently called upon to be shot, it is logical that this leads to aggression or to their legitimacy. Because when you say "nazi," of course, the message is that you have to shoot it. Van Riessen says "shoot" and of course that means "shoot." Of course, that leads to aggression. But when you say "scumbags of the ledge," because that's what I'm being called upon to do, doesn't that lead to aggression? That's just scum from the ledge. A lot of people say they recognize themselves there. Some people will say: what madness, we do not recognize ourselves in that. All this can be done in a free democracy. Journalists are allowed to write. They must do so, safe and free. If that doesn't happen, you have to protect them to the maximum. But you can say something back sometime, can't you? What the hell is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	That you're allowed to say something back doesn't fight anyone. But if you see in a few days after the tweet... I'm not saying there's a direct connection. There's more to it than that. Only 80% of journalists have to do with aggression. Sorry, but if you're simply looking at what's coming into the NVJ alone, then I think it's a little cowardly political call to say on the one hand "demonized here and that has consequences in the real world" I agree that words have consequences and then on the other hand if you hand out yourself "I don't know what it was because of. I had nothing to do with the fact that suddenly a lot of e-mails came in there, because I once tabled a motion." You can see that's crooked, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	We haven't even filed a motion. We have called for better protection for journalists far before this discussion took place. That is exactly what this debate is about. And for 15 years, we've been fighting for harsh sentences for anyone who threatens violence or who commits violence. We fight hard for that, much harder than all your groups put together, especially those of the SP. We want to play hardball. We're pretty much the only ones. Maybe one or two parties would majority with us. We're the only ones who really want to play hardball. Others aren't in. I don't know when Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks asked for this debate, but I think it was in 2018, out of my mind. In any case, there was a committee meeting in 2018 in which this topic already played. This subject has been going on for years. It has nothing to do with pushing back once and saying what we think of something. 'Cause if you're being called "nazi," you're gonna have to say something back. What the SP and other colleagues are doing now is trying to make a political game of a very important subject, while during this debate journalists are in security because otherwise they will be shot by the mocromafia. That has nothing to do with anyone's tweet. So, in this debate, please, let us focus on how to increase the security of journalists rather than playing a political game. Doesn't that help anyone? I have now received the same question ten times and given the same answer ten times. Let's focus on the safety of the journalists. Because that's really what this is about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	We looked it up real quick. On 8 June 2021, Mrs Ellemeet requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	Tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby-tubby.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	Sure, a top-notch guy here who looked it up pretty quick. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	I am really surprised to hear what you are saying about previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	What particularly affects me is that you see yourself as the greatest victim. You and your group are the victims, you are struggling, you are suffering from those harsh words. So you don't understand that you're part of that, too, with your judgment. With your words, you're gonna make journalists beat the journal again without a sticker on their van. You also have to make sure that your home address is not known as a journalist, otherwise you have a fire bomb in front of your front door. Do you now recognise that you also play a role in the interests of order in this country and of a free and safe press in this country? Do you recognise that with your words it is not a matter of two equal parties and a moment to strike back, so that a lot of journalists outside are outlawed and, every day, afraid that they can do their job safely? We protect them here with everything in our power. But your words also make it more and more necessary. You're contributing to what's needed because you're making things worse. Do you agree with me that you are part of the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	No. It is a nice interruption, but it really is a repetition of moves so Mrs Derkzen also had a lot of time to do him good again. No, I disagree. I'm not putting myself away as a victim at all. We are saying that we want journalists to work in full security and maximum freedom. We agree with everyone who says that the rule of law must be protected, and journalists play a very important role in this. So we are totally in agreement on all these things; all I'm saying is that you can push back every now and then, especially when you say that you can never use violence. That is what we have been doing as a party for 15 years. And if Mrs Derkzen of the VVD were to support us in really tackling the people who are threatening violence and the people who are committing violence for once, she would have a minister sitting in that ministry and those journalists could do their job in much more security and freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	Finally, because it will also be a show by the PVV to tell us why they are right: I insist that I find this victim role of them really reprehensible and that we are taking more and more measures because you, as part of the system, are making things worse and more acute. I find that objectionable, and I hope that you will not do so again after today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr Markuszower pointed out that the generalisation and similitude of journalists and the molestation and intimidation of journalists by the PVV was permitted because some journalists described the PVV as xenophobic and racist. I was wondering why it is permissible to molest, generalise and intimidate journalists if these journalists are telling the truth. Because when you talk as a political party about fewer, less, less Moroccans and if you compare population groups, is it not strange that there are journalists in the country who say: yes, they are racist, xenophobic ideas? I am not afraid to say in this Parliament: yes, the PVV has racist, xenophobic ideas. And I find it shocking that you say that it is bon ton to molest and intimidate journalists when they have that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	Phrasing is of course something people feel for themselves; that is up to the recipient. But I do distance myself from the word "imitate." I don't think anyone should intimidate. We never have, and we never will. We're not intimidating. So I'm gonna distance myself from that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you. Last...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	In any case, I distance myself from that input, with that racism, and I know a lot about it, I have done so a hundred times now, but we have not intimidated anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	Last question for Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	Yes, Mr President, last question from Mr Van Baarle indeed. If you refer to an entire profession as "scanner of the ledge," if you consistently sow mistrust towards the NPO by setting it as a kind of left-wing political institution, that is intimidating. Then it's intimidating for all those people who work there, in that climate you create. And I will stand for the freedom of all those journalists in this country who, on the basis of your ideas, say that the PVV is racist and xenophobic. They don't deserve to be intimidated on your part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. Oh, Mr. Markuszower, go ahead. And then Mrs Ellemeet from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	I'm just gonna go back to what it means to intimidate you: scare you, scare you, threaten you. If you say to someone "you know, you're scum of the ledge" I'm telling you now, is that harassment? No, I'm asking you. Is that harassment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	We're not going out of the benches...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	It's rare that I've heard such a hypocritical story. For Mr Markuszower denies that words have consequences in our society, and certainly words from politicians. And the PVV refuses to recognise this, refuses to see that aggression and intimidation towards journalists is increasing, that this is becoming increasingly worrying, that the free press feels less and less free. And the only thing we can do here, if Mr Markuszower refuses to take responsibility for that, is to express himself very clearly. We all have responsibility. And the words the PVV chooses cannot, and have consequences. I'd like to remind him of that one more time. This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	Well, I didn't hear a question. I am concerned that Mrs Ellemeet is always using very big words. Then I wonder: what is it next time? Because you have to get over it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	Yes. The PVV knows, like no other, what it's like to be threatened. In fact, our group chairman is so threatened that he has completely lost his freedom for more than 15 years. Therefore, our involvement in threatened journalists goes far beyond some sympathetic words or easy political interruptions, which you have just heard. Last year, PVV members Lilian Helder and Geert Wilders tabled a motion to provide additional resources to help the police set up the "team of threatened journalists." My group chairman has been calling for journalists to be able to do their job in security and freedom for years. Without exception, we stand for free speech. Without exception, we stand for journalism. We do not tolerate journalists being threatened. The PVV wants to tackle thugs that threaten journalists, and journalists that are threatened, with maximum and adequate security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. Then I give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD, for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	Thank you, Mr President. It is hard to understand that between now and the last time we talked about this subject, Peter R. de Vries, we were lost because of a terrible attack. Apart from this intriguing and intriguing low, we have recently seen many more examples of journalists who cannot do their job safely. And the Chamber also organised a meeting on the initiative of the VVD just before the summer recess to collect the signals from journalists, also regionally. That really freaked us out. We just heard: eight out of ten journalists have experience of threats or violence. Eight out of ten journalists! Why don't you let that work on you? Most recently: the incendiary bomb at the journalist's home in Groningen, near his house. There is considerable distrust of journalists of so-called "mainstream media." A growing number of people in our country seem to think that journalists can only freely do their job if they are ventilating the same opinion as they are. This group of people believes that journalists should also in advance turn against authority, against government, against the rule of law and against the silent majority. And if they don't, they're in trouble, and then there might be reprisals. VVD would like to combat this problem at the base: ensuring that people see the great importance of free journalism. And that starts here, Mr President, and the debate just now shows that again. Because when I hear my colleagues screaming about "smart" and "fake news," I also want to warn them, and we have done so here together: you are part of it. You're part of it. Your words matter, and you are bringing about an important pillar of our democracy. Watch out for that! Mr. Chairman. The VVD, by a majority of this Chamber, has done what is necessary to ensure that journalists can do their work safely. It's one, heavier punishments, two, direct access to the police, three, financial support from whoever needs it, and four, protecting private data. It now comes down to the execution. And before that, I look very closely at these two leaders: simply implement the necessary measures as quickly as possible, for example, that more severe punishment. Where's the bill doxing? And when does community service for these crimes end? But also the access to the police, the regional points of contact, are they concretely manned? What about the central point of contact, just like the Team Threatened Politicians, as requested by my group? I think we should be quite proud of what the VVD has achieved in terms of financial support, including by a majority in the Chamber, so that employers, together with politicians and prosecutors, can do what is necessary to ensure that the work of journalists is carried out safely. If there is no employer who can pay the cost of security, then there is that money, two tons, that we have released from the budget to do so. How's that budget coming? I'll ask the Minister. For it cannot be that an application is not honored because this pot is empty far too quickly. But then today's Achilles heel, for which I asked Secretary of State Keijzer in this debate: the protection of personal data. Many journalists work as zzp'er and have the same home address as their company's establishment address. That's exactly what makes them so particularly vulnerable. The VVD together with GroenLinks and the CDA submitted a proposal to protect home addresses at the end of last year. It had unanimous support in the Chamber. This was also a response to the State Secretary's commitment to address or modify the decision to address the trade register. But that change doesn't make any sense. See also the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. With the proposed amendment, the situation is deteriorating forzzp's, who seem to be unable to protect their location even in the event of a threat. Supported by the opinion of the authority, I say here: stop hiding behind European regulations. Today, I want an opinion from the cabinet on the advice of this authority. But more importantly, my group assumes that the cabinet will take care of this. People's safety is at stake here. Mr President, I will conclude. Our democracy simply cannot be without free media and critical journalists. We politicians must all stand in front of these journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you, Mrs Michon-Derkzen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over four of the five journalists in the Netherlands have experienced aggression or violence during their work in the past year. Journalists are physically and verbally threatened, but threats online are also increasing. One in three journalists indicates that he or she suffers from verbal and physical violence on a monthly basis. That really freaks me out. Society is hardening, and it seems to be getting worse. I must also say that I can completely imagine that one in seven journalists is considering stopping journalism, however sad that may be. We, too, as representatives of the people, have just heard that every day in our mailboxes, hate mails and swear canonades, as well as on social media. Of course, that's terrible, let alone that you have to be scared on the street to get beaten up when you do your job or get hit by a car, or, in the case of Peter R. de Vries, even get killed. As far as I'm concerned, this is unacceptable. I therefore fully support the measures taken to protect journalists, or as a journalist from the daily newspaper told me today: "I welcome this. It's more necessary than ever." A harder approach and the more severe punishment of violence against journalists are therefore a good thing, but the press must continue to be able to do its job critically, independently and safely. The police must take firm action against this and perpetrators must be punished more severely. What I also think is important is that there is a clearer communication that an offender has been caught and what punishment he or she has received. This should be based on an example. But I think more needs to be done. Everyone must take their own responsibility in showing tolerance and respect for each other. I believe that we, as representatives of the people, have a role to play here in this House. The political debate is polarising more and more. In this house we are also on a sliding scale when it comes to manners and language. In the plenary room, you can sometimes hear the accusations and insults. Ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber who have been calling journalists names for scum from the ledge and gay: I really cannot do that. We, as representatives of the people, have an exemplary role to play. If we already show no respect for each other and for journalists, how can we expect this from other people? Mr. Chairman. This increasing aggression is putting pressure on freedom of the press. That's indigestible. Violence against journalists is out of the question, but like all of us, journalists also have to look at how they sometimes operate themselves. I spoke before this debate with a number of parliamentary reporters who are working here every day. One of them said: "The power of journalism is incredibly great and is growing. There is a lot of work pressure; because of the speed we cannot always do a good job." Another said, "We need to score fast. The one-liners and the personal attacks on each other, for example in politics, are much more interesting news than the content." One journalist even said that he regularly kicks the brakes to avoid sensational news. We have a part of the solution in hand, by setting an example of our own and by addressing each other in untolerable behaviour. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more questions for the Minister. How are you going to ensure that the reporter's hotline becomes even better known and that journalists who are threatened are actually going to press charges? In addition, I can imagine that it is important to pay attention to the way in which freedom of expression, hardening in society and increasing aggression against journalists are dealt with in the schools for journalism. Is that happening yet? If so, how? If not, how does the Minister view resistance classes and skills learning to deal with this aspect of the profession as part of the curriculum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. This debate today is overshadowed by a horrible event: the murder of Peter R. de Vries. Two months ago, we were hoping for a miracle. But despite his fight to the end, the brutal attack killed him. All events surrounding the Marengo process, besides grief, misunderstanding and anger, also raise many questions. Why weren't they better protected? What impact does it have on the rule of law? How much danger is there for other people involved? Before the summer recess, I asked the Minister about monitoring and securing the evaluation of the system. In the meantime, he has also announced an investigation by the OVV into the security situation. The reason for this attack is still being investigated, but the fact is that serious criminals are definitely targeting journalism. Crime journalists John van den Heuvel and Paul Vugts live with heavy security. That's how far it's come. These journalists live in safehouses because a murder order has been issued for them. Can the Minister state what progress has been made towards achieving an equivalent point of contact as the Team of Threatened Politicians for journalists dealing with such a threat? Mr. Chairman. Eight out of ten journalists have now experienced aggression or threats. The NOS was forced to remove the logos from its vans. The Groningen journalist Willem Groeneveld, from Sikkom, got a molotov cocktail through his front door. He was a victim of doxing before. These were all direct attacks on the freedom of the press in our country, which we, certainly as a parliament, should take very seriously. My D66 colleague Joost Sneller was therefore co-initiator of PressSafe. However, there is a risk that funding will end. I ask the Minister whether he can indicate whether the structural support for Press is securely secured. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, not everyone in this Chamber is trying to protect these watchdogs from our democracy. "Journalists are exceptions to this rule, with the exception of "Journalists of the Ridge," PVV leader Geert Wilders tweeted. Two days later, the threats came to the Dutch Association of Journalists. "All journalists must die," one of the e-mails said. Forum leader Baudet puts away the NOS news as "the fake news report." Personal attacks on journalists often appear to be part of the Forum's policy. For example, journalist and researcher Nikki Sterckenburg had to dedicate it here before the summer in a debate, because she wrote a book about and researched the extreme right. When journalist Joost Vullings kindly refused a provocative hand from Baudet, he was called gay. That's how it's come to be. Mr. Chairman. What we say matters. Our words matter. Journalist Tom-Jan Meeus mentioned here in 2018 in his column in NRC: "It starts with politicians. When they constantly communicate anger with each other (...), they legitimize citizens to pursue the same goal. Then they encourage more and more people to be furious not because they are, but because it works." That is why it is important for us in the Chamber to take on our responsibilities. We have an exemplary role to play. An attack on the free press is an attack on our democracy, and thus an attack on all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	Thank you, Mrs Van der Werf. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr. Chairman. According to our Minister of Justice and Security, the Press project is expected to function securely. At the same time, recent research shows that journalists are increasingly threatened. During the summer recess a disaster occurred. I am, of course, talking about the horrible, cross-border and cowardly murder of Peter R. de Vries. But what about the death threats against John van den Heuvel? And then I'm just talking about two very well-known crime journalists, and not even about all the incidents surrounding press photographers and other journalists who just need to be able to do their job. My question to the Minister is as follows. How does he rhyme with the conclusion that the project PressSafely runs well with that, while the bullets are flying around our ears? Mr. Chairman. The freedom of the press is sacred. I think we all agree that violence is unacceptable. Violence against anyone: journalists, aid workers, police officers, politicians and, for example, people who demonstrate. Because not only the journalists are victims of violence. Aggression against homosexuals, street harassment against women and stabbing incidents are commonplace among this Minister of Justice and Security. It is clear that current policies are not strong enough. Therefore, the Dutch interest advocates minimum penalties, a tough approach to crime and a zero-tolerance policy. Does the Minister agree with me that we should focus on a tough approach to this crime and that this includes the fact that criminals cannot continue to run all kinds of criminal acts from their cells? What is the Minister going to do about this in the short term? Even undermining crime seems to be gaining ground, despite the promise that our minister would take this seriously. Even the country of organized crime, Italy, was deeply shocked after the recent events in the Netherlands and warned us. Will this minister change his approach to the murder of Peter R. de Vries and other incidents of violence? Or is this minister just gonna keep digging and getting wet? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Journalists have an incredibly important role in our democracy. They control power and have an important role in the public debate. They are the ears and eyes of our society. Unfortunately, journalists are the victims of threats, intimidation and violence. Three out of ten. That is a huge problem and, unfortunately, it is increasing. An absolute low point here is of course the terrible murder of Peter R. de Vries. Peter R. de Vries is a very valued person within our society. We lost someone who stood up for justice, stood up for minorities and helped people who got into tribulation. "On ganged knee is no way to be free," he told during a speech in 2016 about his tattoo; it was his life motto. What happened to Peter R. de Vries is unacceptable. A lot of people are still worried about this. The bottom stone has to come up. How did this happen? Recently there was a fuss about the independence of the investigation into the security situation of Peter R. de Vries. In any case, we are pleased that the investigation into the murder of Peter R. de Vries is being organised at the Security Research Council. Can the Minister give us an update on what's going on with that investigation? Is there a timeline yet? How is the independence of the persons who are going to conduct this investigation guaranteed? When it comes to the intimidation of journalists, of course, prevention is better than cure. Unfortunately, I do not read enough about this in the letter. This must be done through schools, but also through public campaigns. I'd like a response from the Minister. A good investigation has been carried out in which we have clearly seen the threat and intimidation of journalists. My question to the government is: are we going to repeat it periodically? Can the Minister ensure that this investigation is carried out again next year? Because measuring is knowing. Then there are some substantive questions about the letter. It is stated that journalists do not always have the preferred position as agreed in the Press Protocol. Can the Minister guarantee that all journalists now have that preferential position? We also read that there are problems in informing about the progress of their declarations. When will this be resolved? Does this have anything to do with understaffing? Doesn't that make us wonder if we should set up a specialist team specifically focused on this issue, namely the threat to journalists? We also read that involved prosecutors do not always record cases of aggression and violence against journalists. Is it now the case that everything is recorded and, if not, what is the deadline that everything is properly recorded? How is the government going to better inform journalists about what they can expect from the police and the prosecutor? Because a declaration of 4%, which we read in the investigation, is shocking. Finally. Words in parliament matter. Then I must say that with fear, anger and aversion I look at how in the corner of the right-wing, populist right-wing and nationalist right-wing our Dutch institutions are consistently undermined. The case law, journalism and education are consistently balanced and undermined by these parties. That is un-Dutch, it is bad for our parliamentary democracy and the representatives of these parties are well aware that I am talking about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	I can very much endorse Mr Van Baarle's words where he says 'words matter', including with regard to journalists. He spoke of this earlier in his interruptions with worthy words. At the same time, I am somewhat uncomfortable, because from his party I also know the videos with "don't fall for it," with the removal of journalism when it comes to all sorts of things that had to do with DENK as if that were not true. How does Mr Van Baarle reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	I would like to say a few things about that. Firstly, when it comes to those videos, it was based on one publication, about a member of our party, a publication on which we felt it was wrong. What did we do next? We followed the procedure nicely. We filed a complaint with the psychic. Then we went to the Council for Journalism. As a matter of fact, I did that case myself. At the Council of Journalism, we were right. I think that proves that we have confidence in our institutions. The second is, we never wish to speak about all the media. This was specifically about one medium: that is the intention, so it is intended. When that is interpreted as "it is about all the media," which is by no means the intention and has never been the intention, I regret that image. That's not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	I think it is a nice reflection that you regret that, because that has, of course, been more widely measured, sort of under the hashtag #trapernietin. Anyway, it's been a while; even Mrs Simons was still with DENK at the time, I think. So we've been looking back for a while. I don't want to make it too hard, either, but it's something I notice. I think we should talk to each other about these things, too. You can do the same to me if I didn't do that right at some point. But the moment we put something like that down, that it becomes a hashtag and that it actually gets a sort of load of "what those others, what media say about us, is not true" at that time, we actually vaccinate a piece of the grassroots that happens then in this case to DENK in the vein of "listen no longer to the journalists." I would find that so undermining for our rule of law that I have nevertheless come forward to ask you for this reflection. Because I really think it's important that we keep each other focused on this, so that everyone just keeps reading the newspaper and, even when it comes to the party you love the most, still thinks "what's going on here?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	In my speech, I spoke loudly about the words of a number of colleagues. I think we should ask each other about that, too. I have outlined to you what our intentions are. I have outlined to you what we were talking about in this particular case, namely a specific medium, a specific publication, and that we have followed the institutional frameworks in which we are confident. I can only repeat what I have just said, namely that if that has generated a different image among others, that of course was by no means the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21. I just saw you, so I thought "maybe this is it," but I think there's gonna be more. Excuse me, Mr. Eerdmans, Mrs. Bikker of the Christian Union is earlier. I saw you startling! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is in you to praise that you like to keep the momentum in it. Bricks through the window, molotov cocktails through the window, Omroep West buys stabbing vests, abuse of reporter when capturing a fire, death threat to the editor-in-chief of the Nieuw Israëlite Weekblad, security guards along with journalists, logos NOS removed from satellite cars. It's really quite a line of news reports and I'm far from ready if I just look back for a little while. What has happened to the media in the Netherlands recently? And meanwhile, parties, politicians, even in this house, talk about fake news, talk about rigors of the ledge. And so they vaccinate their support for every critical question, for every critical message that media could bring about their views. That's not right. There are so many incidents that I am very concerned that we would find it normal that a camera crew is missing and a reporter only dares to record the case with his iPhone, that we are going to find it normal that people and all kinds of organized trolls roll over someone who brings a message that a party is uncomfortable. This not only affects the freedom and security of the journalist in question. That's what hits the truth. That affects the control of power. That affects what we all hear, see and read, simply because not all the stories will be delivered or will not be brought as sharp as we are not looking forward to. This affects the foundations of our democratic rule of law. That makes this debate very important, because the sneaking actions go through words. It creates a climate in which bullying first seems normal, but it soon spreads that bad fire like a peat fire, which now makes us look at serious intimidation. Mr. Chairman. If we don't get up together and stay up, the fire will have a chance to blow up. We can't get used to it. Every time this happens, we have to get excited again, express ourselves and act decisively; in the case of fire bombs, threats, doxing and death lists, but also in the case of "rigids of the ledge," in the case of calling for dismissal of publicists and all kinds of fake qualifications. Today, I wholeheartedly support all those journalists, all those publicists who continue, who stand up, who do their important work despite threats. I want to see what it takes for them to keep doing that, that there is also new growth, but also that we do not see this situation as a kind of new reality. This debate can't just solve that, but if we don't start here, where can we? That is precisely why I would ask the Minister to draw up an annual state of the rule of law on this issue. I know a similar request has been made to the Bureau. I would like to ask the Presidium to do so in another way, in order to do so as a matter of urgency. I think that guarding our freedoms is so important that we cannot accept this as a given. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is not just about polarisation, but also about undermining. We see that more and more serious criminals do not shy away from violence to silence journalists. We read about death lists that might have people on them. Of course there is this summer's attack on Peter R. de Vries. We cannot accept that our civilization is so at stake because of this crime, so that the light no longer shines on dark practices. But we also know the impact of these terrible actions on the work of journalists. That's exactly why I want to lance for PressSafe and his commitment. I agree with Mr Van der Werf's questions on sustainable support. I also ask the Minister to organise the regional contact points for journalists in the police force as a matter of urgency. I also ask the Minister to consider how he sees this for publicists, for all thosezzp'ers who do their work from their home address. They also need protection. It's missing right now. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. A lot of freelancers are working from home right now. From the answers of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, I honestly do not get the urgency that it has to protect their data very well because of the climate in which we live. I would like to go along with what Mr Michon said. I look forward to answering the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a worrying phenomenon. This is also shown by the countless examples of colleagues, with the absolute low point on 6 July as the murder of Peter R. de Vries. Unfortunately, that attack didn't come as a thunderbolt to the clear sky, because Peter R. de Vries was on a death list of Taghi. We know that. The fate of the brother and the principal witness' attorney earlier indicated how serious that situation was. We do know the names of the heroic crime journalists John van den Heuvel and Paul Vugts. In 2019 they received the Pim Fortuyn Prize for their courage. They too live under harsh conditions with terribly difficult work. I agree with Mrs Bikker's compliments for the work they continue to do. Mr. Chairman. In the aftermath of the murder of De Vries, it was often read that the attack was an attack on journalism. The link is regularly made with criticism of the media, in this case that the murder of De Vries and also the threats of Van den Heuvel and Vugts are an attack on the rule of law. It's been about that a lot. I see the minister sighing and no shaking. Is that about me or about something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	Perhaps it would be good if you provided your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	I'm just curious, because I heard a very deep sigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u88	I ask you to go further and I ask the Minister to perhaps speak a little less non-verbally. I do not know what the background is, but I shall give the floor to Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u89	I wonder if it had anything to do with me, but we'll find out soon enough. Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the attack on the rule of law more often. It has been at stake; let us not deny it. Criticism or scepticism towards the media had nothing to do with that. Having said that, every journalist must be able to do his or her work freely, safely and unhindered. And that seems less and less self-evident. Johan Derksen is walking around with an emergency button. Journalist Willem Groeneveld from Groningen has already been mentioned. He got a molotov cocktail through his window. Jos Emonts van De Limburger finds a hand grenade outside his door. Rijnmond reporter Jacco van Giessen got a kick in Krimpen. And a protester tried to push reporter Dennis Schouten in front of a car. The NIS was attacked and so on and so on. These are serious incidents with very different backgrounds, but with one common denominator: it is totally unacceptable. I have taken note of the Minister's letter on the functioning of the Press Protocol. JA21 has a number of questions about this. The first is about the period of police reporting: from the end of 2019 until the middle of last year. In that period, 53 files were registered with the police. Is there a more up-to-date picture available? I can't wait to see what's happened since then. The same applies to the N.V.J. hotline. How many reporters are coming in there? My second question is: what is the situation with regard to the specific classification of violence and threats against journalists by the State? Is that happening now? Three. You indicate that journalists reporting are sometimes overestimating the scope of the operation and protection of criminal law. I think about someone like Johan Derksen. It is not just about the capacity shortage, but also about whether the threats would be work-related. Can the Minister answer that? Isn't threat to journalists almost always work-related? Shouldn't that scope be widened? President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European That's a system in which you get all kinds of things called cameras and states for home. Could endangered journalists also be covered by that regime? I'd like a response. Mr President, I will conclude. At the end of May, we discussed in plenary with the Minister a number of legislative changes in the context of undermining crime. JA21 then supported Michon Derkzen/Sneller's amendment on a grounds of punishment for the threat to journalists. We also supported the Van Nispen motion on additional investments in the entire criminal justice chain. My motion calling for additional measures against organised crime was adopted in Parliament just before the recess. Please respond to the progress of both motions. They are also in the interests of the safety of journalists. I'll stick with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you. I can repeat it to anyone who has already said it here, but it is important to keep saying it: an attack on journalism is an attack on our rule of law, an attack on our democracy. It has already been said several times: to our great regret we have also been reminded of the facts on several occasions in this area. Of course, crime reporter is a completely different subject from parliamentary reporter. It's two different professions. The threat of a horde of angry Twitterers and the threat of organized crime are also completely different. But there is also an agreement and that agreement touches on the core of what a good journalist does. The threat is to prevent a journalist from bringing out stories that someone would rather not have told outside, while that is precisely where the value of journalism lies. The challenge today is to get beyond shared indignation and to set the standard that you stay away from journalists. Of course, this standard is important and it is important to repeat it, especially when we see that he is under pressure and especially when we see that extreme right-wing politicians, for example, in an attempt to divert attention from the scandals in their own toko, are dragging the profession through the mud and making it suspicious, just in a year when we see that 80% of journalists are involved in aggression. So it's about getting further than that piece of shit. That means concrete proposals that can really change things for journalists. Let me mention three. One. Keep PressSafe and keep bringing it to the attention of the public. Keep financing it, too. Of course it is only a means and not an end, but frankly the first signals so far are just positive from both Press Security and journalism. For example, facilitate a trusted person with whom you can consult without immediately making a report or making a report. I'm just saying someone who knows how to call you: "Joh, I'm a little doubting this. What can I do with this? Do I have to work on this, or should I just leave this?" Secondly, do something about the trade in personal data ofzzp'ers, including journalists. It's been over before. Of course, this plays wider than just journalists. For years, the Chamber has been trying to do something about the fact that those private data are so easy to find out. It is often a thorn in the eye that they are called ten times a week unsolicited with another energy offer. But here it affects the safety of journalists. Each time the cabinet says to do everything possible for the safety of journalists. As long as this isn't settled, it's just not true. That doesn't just apply to the Chamber of Commerce. This also applies, for example, to the land register, where it is quite easy to ask where someone can eventually live. A simple printout and you know exactly where to be when you're dissatisfied with a piece and want to express it to a journalist, while partner and child are sitting on the couch. That can't be done, and it has to stop today. Screen it off and then go fix the law. Make sure that journalists are safe as soon as possible and cannot only protect their data when they are already threatened. That's the moment we want to stay ahead. Finally, more attention should be paid to the position of freelancers. They won't get a security guard with them as soon as they need to. They are often not insured. If you get hit and you sit at home, you don't get paid. It often also deserves to be touched by dogs, so you have a lot less the luxury to say that you're losing an assignment, because you don't feel very comfortable with it. That simply directly affects your already scarce income. This is also exactly the category where the number of threats is growing fastest. It is precisely the young freelancers who are most affected by threats. How are you going to improve the legal position of freelancers and give them a better negotiating place? And how are you gonna get them to maybe call it "I'm just gonna be able to live off their profession," or "I'm gonna be able to buy a house much crazier"? A year and a half ago, my motion was adopted to allow minimum rates forzzp journalists and to negotiate collectively. A year and a half! For the time being, I have no idea what is going on with the implementation of that motion. It is important to continue investing in journalism and specifically in the position of the self-employed. Why? We need these counter-lights so badly, because there are far too many people who want to hide something too much. We need these people very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u92	Thank you, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u94	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Charlie Hebdo, Paris 2015. Daphne Caruana Galizia, Malta 2017. Ján Kuciak, Slovakia 2019. Giorgos Karaivaz, Athens 2021. Peter R. de Vries, Amsterdam 2021. In four years, four journalists have died in Europe from attacks. What do they have in common? They did research and challenged power, whether it was political power or organized crime. They looked critically at society. In the Netherlands, we see the existence of independent journalism as a matter of course. Unfortunately, nothing less is true. The Netherlands is also not immune to the growing pressure on press freedom caused by fake news, opposition and intimidation. We've been dropping in the World Press Freedom Index for the third year in a row. If we allow this undermining of independent journalism, we are complicit in undermining the rule of law. So we have to break this pattern. Mr. Chairman. Everything of value is defenseless. To protect our democracy, we must protect journalists. It's sad that we had to get to this point. Critical journalists should not need the protection of politics. On the contrary, they must be free to set political fires as an independent force. That is why we need structural solutions to strengthen the position of journalists. The foundations of our rule of law must be strengthened so that they cannot be affected, so that any change of power is separate from the protection of independent journalism. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: how does the Minister view this, also in the light of the action plan for European democracy, which shows that freedom of the press, media pluralism and the fight against fake news are important elements for ensuring a democratic society? This is also a cross-border problem. We need to address this not only at national level, but also at European level. What is the Minister's commitment to this at European level? Mr. Chairman. Imagine having an autocratic government in the Netherlands one day. Have we provided sufficient guarantees in the Netherlands? The research of Reporters Without Borders shows that this is not the case in the Netherlands. What solutions does the Minister see for this? What steps are being taken to prevent the privacy and sources of journalists from being protected by NCTV? Does the Minister intend to introduce legislation to prevent strategic lawsuits against public organisations, including journalists? And how is it ensured that media have sufficient access to independent grants and financial support? Mr. Chairman. That doesn't mean we're here yet. A resilient society requires well-informed citizens, as well as good investigative journalism. Is the Minister therefore planning, in cooperation with his colleagues, to come up with a plan such as in Finland, where education is offered on the recognition of fake news, the prevention of wrong information and the recognition of quality and reliable media? Mr. Chairman. These structural solutions are needed to protect journalism and the rule of law in the long term, but we all note that it is already unsafe. Whether online or offline, threats, aggression and violence must never go unpunished. Something needs to be done right away. In the Scandinavian countries, freedom of the press is better served by systematic action against intimidation. What is the Minister's position on a regional police point where journalists can go? That's been asked before today. Is the Minister considering a rapid digital warning mechanism for infringements of the freedom of the press? Has this been investigated, for example? Mr. Chairman. We don't want to go without critical journalism. We need people who challenge power and ask uncomfortable questions, whether they be journalists, theatre makers or filmmakers. I'm talking about people who let us look at society in other ways. They are the guardians of democracy. We have to do everything we can to stand up for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u97	After that molotov cocktail in Groningen, the entire city council of Groningen stood up for freedom of the press and against everyone and everything that endangers our freedom of the press and thus our rule of law. I actually think that we, as the Chamber, are faced with the same question: are we all opposed to the freedom of the press that is at stake and to everyone and everything that endangers our democratic rule of law? That is why I welcome the motion for a resolution which is a bit in preparation by my colleague from D66 to really stand up to it. Because once again, our freedom is in danger. Let me repeat the figures: eight out of ten journalists have had to deal with threats and 29% have to do with them every month. Having said that, I have a number of questions about the protocol on freedom of the press, but also about... That's what the city council of Groningen asked with that standing up: what exactly is our city government going to do to ensure the freedom of the press in the city? That is why I would now like to ask the government what it is going to do to ensure freedom of the press in the Netherlands. As regards the questions on social media platforms, I agree with Mr Ellemeet van GroenLinks. Then maybe a slightly softer side. Especially after the wretched murder of Peter R. de Vries and after the molotov cocktails in Groningen it may be a bit soft, but part of the protocol on press security is also training in schools and training for the profession. It sounds soft, but it is extremely important not to let it come to threats. What is the situation with regard to its financing? Is that also a multi-annual arrangement? As regards the questions of the registrations of the Chamber of Commerce and the Land Registry, I agree with previous speakers, especially those of the SP. Can the Secretary of State promise that the Quint motion will be properly implemented? After all, I have always been taught: you have to fix the roof when the sun shines. As far as the protection of crime reporters is concerned, we are far from there. Additional measures are needed. I also know that our Minister knows this, especially when it comes to the security of courts, the cost of personal security and the loss of income of journalists who may be out of the running. Can the Minister tell us in what short term we will be discussing these additional measures? Within now and very quickly, the WODC is investigating why perpetrators actually threaten journalists. These results seem to me to be very interesting if we are to avoid threats in the future. Can the Minister indicate how the results are involved in the Press Protocol Securely and when we are going to discuss these outcomes? I read in the Minister's letter that two tonnes are to be allocated for three years to journalists at risk of threat, so that risk services can be offered. What is this amount based on, is it enough and why is there a ceiling on it anyway? With regard to all questions about media wisdom in schools, which is also essential, in order to protect our rule of law in the future, I agree with my colleague Mr Koekkoek van Volt. Depending on the answers, I may submit a number of motions or sign with them. Let's start with an afterburner. The letter also states that the Minister will return to us on how the point of contact with the police will be set up for the heavier category of threatened journalists. Can the Minister at least assure us that this point of contact has stripes rather than central, but is organized regionally with impact in the regional triangles?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been said a few times: today's debate is extremely important. If you are one of the last to speak, then it has its advantages, because many useful things have already been said and many important questions have already been asked. I too agree with a number of previous speakers. When it comes to the media and journalism in our country, we are unfortunately at a turning point. It has already been discussed today how the rise of the extreme right also poses a direct threat to the free press and thus to democracy in our country. That threat is growing and growing. Journalists are being placed on the far right side of this Chamber as scum of the ledge by people's representatives, the reporting of scientific research is increasingly being dismissed as left-wing activism and everything is always the fault of the media. Thus, the right side brews and radicalizes ever further in its own created echo chamber. Even in this house of democracy, the extreme right increasingly finds a stage to scream louder about the Netherlands along with fake news, anti-legal ideas and threats to clean up the press. As a direct result of these dangerous developments, threats are the order of the day. It's all been appointed a few times today. We know by now that last year the NOS decided to no longer provide their vehicles with a logo and that a standard procedure has been set up to send out workers with security. Well, that tells me we're obviously way too late. We cannot debate this issue without mentioning the role of fake news. I myself recently experienced it in person again when one of the groups in this Chamber on the far-right side... Or on the right, because I'm sure they'll fight that. You can't even call xenophobes with good decency these days. They felt it necessary to cut and paste a contribution I made in a committee debate and to throw contextless on TikTok. Of course everyone went on social media with that and within no-time a popular representative was successfully completely framed, attacked. Untruths are spreading like wildfires, and I'm not talking about the safety consequences of that. But you know what, Chairman? Fake news is not only harmful if it tries to affect someone's personal reputation or safety. It is also very often fully deployed by those same groups to actively combat science and dismiss journalists as ordinary liars. Let us be clear: these are also direct attacks on our democracy and towards everyone who is part of our society. That is at the heart of today's debate. The further threats and aggression not only endanger individual journalists. This organized hate campaign to destroy the credibility of the free press is a threat to all of us. If you're one of the last to speak... Let me not keep it so general, but let me just say as it is. During the course of this debate, I feel that my emotions are increasing. I'm trying to figure out why. I think that part of that has to do with the scandalous way in which groups here across the back of someone who has been very dear to me for years, and still is, and who has just been buried... I am not talking about anyone who has mentioned his name, but certainly about the people Peter R. de Vries fought in his life. He fought against xenophobia, against undermining the rule of law. Then I am deeply saddened at the personal level to see the people who are guilty of this kind of hypocrisy on display here in his name. Mr President, I have no words for it and I think I have made my point clear. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u100	It's okay. Just take a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u101	Maybe I'll take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yeah, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u103	I hope that we can all get out of this debate together, finally see this debate as a late wake-up call, and that from today on we will really work to combat the many causes of this problem: doxing, poor protection ofzzp'ers, and of journalists in general. It's all been mentioned. But the real problem is and remains the threat to our democracy. The greatest threat to the heart of our society is currently the far right. I ask everyone: don't give them room, not an inch! It's time to draw a line. I ask that of everyone in this society, but also everyone in this Chamber and everyone inside this house. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr. Chairman. "Times, that's us. As we are, so is the time." According to Church Father Augustine, more than one and a half millennium ago. These are wise words that call on everyone to take responsibility for the world around them, even at a time of crisis and uncertainty. But we see a society where contradictions are magnified, the debate hardens and individual interests stand in the way of the ability to come together. Unrest, dissatisfaction, the feeling of not being heard to be combined with a loss of ability to connect, a feeling of "together," lead to hardening in society. This also affects journalism, to an increasing extent. The numbers are really frightening. They have been mentioned here several times. The NOS taped the logos on the company cars. Incendiary bombs were delivered to the house. Someone was parked in a ditch by a forklift truck. But there are also more subtle forms: exposing home addresses, reactions via social media, intimidation through bringing legal proceedings, etc. The result is that editors apply self-censorship. Mr. Chairman. This is a social problem. It is very important that, as a parliament and a parliament, we recognise and uphold the essential importance of journalists. Hands off journalists for the sake of that society! Mr Brenninkmeijer already pointed out in the round table held in our OCW committee that the most important bystander of journalism is the whole society and that the corrective and protective value of the bystander effect should not be underestimated. That is what the CDA agrees with Mr Brenninkmeijer. Freedom of the press is vital to a democracy like ours. Several initiatives have already been initiated by the government to assist journalists. It is good that doxing is punishable. Some platforms already set a good example and take responsibility by allowing or not allowing reactions. I also agree with Mrs Ellemeet's questions about online platforms and their contacts with journalists. The Press initiativeSafe as a collaboration between journalism, police and the public prosecutor is a good initiative. At the same time, the report makes it painfully clear that journalists who are victims of threats or violence are difficult to find their way to the authorities. The willingness to report is low and the follow-up via justice may also be unsatisfactory. How does the Minister intend to make this easier? How are we going to ensure that the willingness to report also increases significantly? PressSafe has a limited duration and temporary funding. For the CDA, it is important that we ensure this project is truly sustainable and provide continuity. I would also ask the Minister to respond to this. The position of women and freelancers in journalism may require extra or specific attention, the position of women because they are more or less threatened and the position of freelancers because they do not have a larger employer who supports and helps them. How does the Minister view this? Can he also comment on the implementation of the Yeşilgöz-Zegerius motion, to which colleagues have already referred? What about the roll-out of these possibilities from that motion? Is that two tons enough, too? And is there any more insight into the conditions that are going to be imposed on this? I'd like a response. What about the implementation of the motion on a hotline heavier category of threatened journalists? Mr. Chairman. We cannot leave the terrible attack on Peter R. de Vries' life unnamed in this debate. The attack once again shows that the fight against undermining crime and against the underworld is in full swing. The monitoring and security system must function properly and the question is whether this is not too non-binding. We also know that there is insufficient capacity. How does the Minister see this? We also hope that the investigation will clarify this. Finally, Mr President. Let us all recognise that journalists must be free to do their work and that this is vital to our democracy. Let us not bow to intimidation, threat and aggression. I would also like to call on my fellow politicians not to legitimise violence or threats against journalists but actually against everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mrs Palland. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you. Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands and people in the public gallery. When I was a little girl, I used to go with my dad. My father, Wil van der Plas, was a sports journalist. With my hand in his I spent every weekend strolling along the fields and the clubhouses. As a proud daughter I sat next to him on the press gallery of the most beautiful football club in the Netherlands, Go Ahead Eagles, in the most beautiful stadium in the Netherlands, the Eagle Chest. The sound of the typewriter is the ticking, the bell when you go to the next line went a full ashtray next to him, calling the piece to the ANP. Then we all had to be quiet, because it was recorded on a tape and ambient sounds could sometimes cause names or events to get wrong in the newspaper. Take the spelling of the name "Nico van Zoghel." Who else knows him? Nico, Isaak, Cornelis, Otto, space, Victor, Anton, Nico, space, Zacharias, Otto, Gerard, Hendrik, Eduard, Leo. Who else knows the Dutch telephone alphabet? I learned it from my father. I wanted to write so badly that as a toddler I copied my father's handwriting. I looked at a piece of paper on which he had written something, and I wrote it down. Unreadable scribble, of course, but proudly I showed it to him, convinced that I had really written something. Mr. Chairman. Ever since I was a kid, I've known. I want to be a journalist. When I was a little older, I was allowed to do hand-and-span services with him at the editors of the then Deventer Dagblad. For example, I was allowed to call football club De Gazelle to ask what they had done against Helios, or distribute telex messages among the other editors. And before I got here in the Chamber, I was allowed to be a journalist for 35 years. Never before had I dealt with aggression, apart from an angry letter or e-mail here and there. Until I became an agricultural journalist and started writing for magazines about meat companies, abattoirs and cattle farmers, so when I started writing unpleasant articles for a certain group of people, the extreme animal activists. Those were articles about meat eating and articles about farmers with pigs, chickens, goats or cows. I was seen as the great promoter of the so-called bio-industry. I was treated like an animal executioner, a murderer. I was called a friend of camp executioners and animal hitters. People once called me a pork nazi. I'd better get toasted myself or a slaughter hook stuck in my neck. I've often let it slip away, a lot of screaming and little wool, so to speak, but of course it doesn't feel very good when there is even a threat of physical violence. Eventually I did report to the police when I got another email or a reaction to the social media with intimidating or threatening texts, not out of fear but to get it registered. Because if you don't report it, it doesn't exist. I have heard legitimate concerns here this afternoon about intimidating journalists or, worse still, outright threats such as attacks. I would like to hear whether this is the case, but it sometimes seems to me that the concerns are focused on journalists who, according to the beneficents, express left-wing opinions. But please, let's keep our eyes wide. Let's stand up for all journalists. Not only was I intimidated and threatened because I didn't speak out against livestock farming and eating meat. Journalists such as Wierd Duk van De Telegraaf are also intimidated and threatened because they have an unpleasant opinion. Journalists with a more right-wing view also get this crap over them, but I never hear a number of parties in this Chamber about it, as if it were less bad. I do not have any questions for the Minister, because they have already been put here by some of my predecessors, but I do have an appeal to the other 149 Members of Parliament. Please speak out against all forms of intimidation and threats against all journalists. Left-wing journalists and right-wing journalists must be free to do their job. They are the watchdogs of society. They control us, too. They deserve protection, not only from the ministries but also from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u108	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you, Madam President. In a functioning democracy, journalism should act as a watchdog, as a controller of power, always looking for the truth and nothing but the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u110	I would like to ask Mr Van Meijeren whether it is true that his party also finds the press scum of the ledge, and also thinks that the mainstream media brings fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u111	On that last question, at least I say a full yes. The mainstream media bring disinformation and fake news to the assembly line. It's really outrageous. In doing so, I would also like to describe a large proportion of the journalists working for mainstream media, with exceptions, as rigors of the ledge. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u112	Finally, Mrs Michon-Derkzen, and then Mrs Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u113	It is nice that we know this at the beginning of the argument. I note that Mr Van Meijeren of the Democracy Forum directly contributes to the threats and violence that journalists face every day. He's part of this room. He once again confirms those disgusting phrases that he and his foreman also say on Twitter. He clearly does not distance himself from that, of which he is aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mrs. Van der Werf, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u115	Well, actually, I'd like to respond briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yeah, you can. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u117	We are in no way guilty of aggression or threat to journalists. We do, however, value journalists who do not take their duties as controllers of power seriously at all and disseminate disinformation. Journalists who themselves are brave enough to identify people as "nazi," "racist," "fascist," "conspirator," "wappy," and thereby create the climate of tolerance of violence against political opponents... Then it is not so strange that words are used against this too. So I don't see that at all as contributing to aggression. Not at all, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr Van Meijeren was just talking about disinformation. What is becoming more and more clear is the role played by his party, the Forum of Democracy itself in disseminating disinformation, especially when it comes to, for example, corona conspiracy theories. A recent study by The London Story showed how your party actively promotes disinformation about COVID-19, including through political advertisements on Facebook. And your party had no less than two tons left for that. Do you have any idea how big the impact of that disinformation is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u119	Well, my question is actually: could this speaker explain what information we have distributed, she calls 'disinformation'? Because otherwise, I can't answer this question. We don't distribute disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u120	I give Mrs Van der Werf the opportunity to explain this. Mrs. Van der Werf?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, prepared to email you that research from The London Story after this debate, but I cannot do that here via the microphone. The fact that you do not call that disinformation, the continuous undermining of everything scientists and journalists write about this pandemic, well, that is also an undermining of our democracy. And that is what I am addressing Mr Van Meijeren. Don't you feel any responsibility for all those people who read that, who think "well, I won't go get vaccination"? For journalists who feel threatened by language you're calling them? That's just disgusting, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u122	Well... Apparently, Mrs van der Werf cannot even say which information should be referred to as "disinformation." If it's information where people draw the conclusion that they shouldn't get a vaccine, then I'm absolutely right. I advise everyone here that you should not be injected with experimental gene therapy, the side effects of which have not even been investigated in the long term. And the disinformation is distributed by the RIVM, which spreads that those vaccinations are safe and sufficiently investigated. That's disinformation. RIVM distributes disinformation, and has a history as the biggest disinformation spreader in this whole corona crisis, or actually this whole coronas scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u123	Thank you. Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u124	Well, well, I have to tell Mr Van Meijeren that if there were one man able to recognize that history of disinformation, that would indeed have to be Mr Van Meijeren. So maybe he knows more about that than I do. It was something else he just said to me. He first blames journalists with their statements to contribute to a climate of aggression towards Forum. And then he says: yes, but what we do has nothing to do with threat; we will never justify threats or initiate threats. What do you think? Do words that express people have possible consequences in actions that other people are going to do, or does that have nothing to do with each other at all? 'Cause that can't go both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u125	I didn't mention a climate against Forum at all. I have talked about the fact that the media themselves are also using terms which, for example, require one of the leaders of one of these party groups to be protected on a daily basis, which means that Pim Fortuyn was shot in the head and killed. So if people are actually placed as a danger to this society, then indeed, at some point, some people, unfortunately, often from the left, can regard it as a kind of justification to grab the weapons again. Words from Forum never led to that. I didn't even use that word "scum" myself at first, but I can imagine that you would consider this kind of reporter, who behaves like political activists, to be "scum." But that does not lead to serious threats or violence against journalists. Someone walking around with a T-shirt that says "NOS is fake news"... Well, that doesn't seem to be a reason to take the stickers off your van in fear and not dare to go to a demonstration anymore. If you are a journalist, it is part of your profession that every now and then during your work, when you seek out the heat of battle, you also have to deal with a moment of limited joy. But aggression and threats have little to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kwint, and then Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u127	I recognize those moments of limited joy. I have to hear that whole shit story. I am concerned with the inconsistency in your own reasoning. First of all, you say that these journalists create threats, demonisation and violence, but when I say something, nobody listens and nothing ever happens. In the meantime, I can imagine after a few minutes. I can advise anyone to stop listening. But the reasoning is internally totally inconsistent. When journalists say something, it contributes to a climate of threat and intimidation, but you can say anything here without ever taking any responsibility for it. That's totally hypocritical, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u128	The boundary for the Forum for Democracy is always in the case of violence, or in the case of inciting or inciting violence. We're not guilty of that. In my opinion, this can only be put as firmly as Mr Kwint does when that violence is actually taking place. Well, we've seen that with Mr. Fortuyn, among others. We've never seen that with a journalist who would have been miserable by Forum. So you can say that our words incite violence, but the facts do not indicate that. So it's full of shit what I hear Mr Kwint say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u129	Words are being put in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u130	Would you like to make a point of order, because it is a personal fact? It's okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u131	Yeah, let's call it a point of order. What matters to me is that I... I really do not have the hope that you will change your position; it is the consequence of your own words that matters to me. If you say one way that it is calling for violence, if you acknowledge one way that words have consequences and can encourage people to act, you cannot run away like a kind of toddler with your fingers in your ears, shouting "nananana" at the moment someone puts down your words and asking what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u132	With the risk of repeating it, I will respond to it again. Of course, we have every right to criticise other politicians, journalists, researchers, scientists and left-wing officials in NCTV. We are critical, and that is our right. Mr Kwint is wrong to conclude that this leads to violence, because that violence is not taking place at all. That violence is happening from the left. That's just the facts. I'm afraid I can't change it for you, but where do we see any violence against people who have been demonized? That's the treadmill violence from the left corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. I'd like to go through the chairman. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Ellemeet and then to Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u134	I must say that the chills really run over my back when I hear Mr Van Meijeren talking: disqualifying the independent media completely as fake news. What that does in a society... and then claim that such statements do not lead to violence. I started my own input with all examples of journalists facing violence. It's coming from somewhere. Will Mr Van Meijeren deny here that statements that we make, which he makes, lead to the influence of a lot of people, which can then lead to violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u135	It is actually the same question that Mr Kwint has just asked. Of course, words can trigger violence. That's also just a criminal offence. So if you think my words are inciting violence, you have to press charges against me, because I would commit a criminal offence. That is not at all the case at the moment. The facts do not indicate that. I'm really sorry that the chills are running over your back. I've had chills, too, but the facts don't change because of your chills.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u136	Democracy Forum disqualifies our independent media and indicates that journalists are undermining our society. Those are very far-reaching statements that encourage people to behave in all manner of ways. Then you can say that it is not one-on-one, but it is a matter of fact, I hear a lot of colleagues say that words are not innocent. We need to think carefully about words. Disqualifying our journalists, who do their work independently, has consequences. We can't look away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u137	Mrs Ellemeet totally contradicts herself by talking about "our" journalists who are independent. They're your journalists, not ours. They are not independent at all, because if we talk about the NPO, they are under the direction of a D66 boss who is paid by the government and therefore dependent on it. The supposedly independent journalists in the Netherlands have already sold their souls completely. The editor-in-chief of the Volkskrant has called for one-mouthed speech in the corona crisis and to follow the line of the RIVM. That has nothing to do with controlling power anymore. Then you're an applause machine of power. There has been pressure from the cabinet on De Telegraaf not to have too much criticism of RIVM. So which independent media are you talking about? There are only a few independent journalistic platforms left in the Netherlands right now. Those aren't mainstream media. These platforms have to do with aggression, threats and violence. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u139	It is terrifying and terrifying that we have a party in our Parliament that makes such statements. It is terrifying that this party, the Forum for Democracy, disqualified journalists who base themselves on facts and scientific research. This means that it is all the more important that we show with all the parties here in this Chamber, even though we are very different from each other, that this cannot be done and that we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u140	Well, for the last time, in front of us, the border lies with violence. Violence against journalists must be dealt with vigorously. This year, the Democracy Forum supported another motion to tackle violence against journalists harder. And who voted against? Among others, Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. Why does Mrs Ellemeet not want to tackle violence against journalists more strictly? Stick to the facts, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u141	Sometimes you hardly know where to start looking for conversations with each other, even in this house. But I'm still trying. Does Mr Van Meijeren share the analysis that is being carried out here in the Chamber, that there is a problem with threats experienced by journalists and that they therefore feel hindered in carrying out their work? Do you share the analysis that this is happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u142	Absolutely. I have many examples of this. I will pay full attention to that in a moment. But then I am talking about violence that is reported and not about someone who once walks around with a T-shirt that says "NOS is fakenews." Because that has nothing to do with violence or intimidation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u143	It's clear that that's your analysis. But I believe that we also note in a large majority that words matter, in this house, but also outside this house. I can actually hear you say that it will, but it is not really up to us. Then I would like to remind you that last Saturday you said 'the government is the enemy; we do not want to recognise the authority anymore', and that yesterday, I think, a tweet went out from your party calling for the law to be broken by speeding up where it is possible and not sticking to, for example, speed limits in this country. You can't say that doesn't call for civil disobedience, can you? At least it doesn't bring people closer together and is inflammatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u144	It hurts me sincerely, sincerely, to find that the government is currently acting as an enemy of the people. For the first time since the Second World War, we have a government that is preparing laws that create a state of apartheid and exclude people from social life. It is necessary not to yield to tyrants. We will not yield to tyrants. If regulations are put in place to discriminate against entire sections of the population, I call for them not to be obeyed. For then obedience is a greater crime than disobedience. The horrors of the Jews in World War II were committed by people who were obedient and not by people who disobeyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you. Mr. Van Meijeren, I'd like to speak as chairman myself. You're using big words. You're making another comparison with World War II. I value saying that I think this is really inappropriate. I think some of my colleagues would like to say something about this. First of all, Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u146	Yes. Once again, you sometimes don't know where to start to talk to each other here, but it's totally unacceptable what you're all talking about here. I think that as a full Chamber, we are completely aloof from that. You have no idea what a dictatorship or tyranny is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u147	When I look at the faces of my fellow Members, I think Mrs Palland has summarised it very well. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Van Meijeren, to really look after your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u148	The fact is that for the first time since the Second World War, people are getting a pass to prove whether or not they have access to social life. I wish that in the 1930s people had risen up and fought this hard. And finally, before you all walk indignantly to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u149	You'll have a chance soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u150	In 1933, there was an elected representative who called Adolf Hitler "a crook." He was denied the floor, with 20 votes to six. If a majority believes that there is no tyranny, this does not mean that there is no tyranny. We will always continue to oppose any policy of discrimination against population groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr. Van Meijeren, I'm gonna make another appeal to you. When I look at my colleagues, I also see their reaction. So I'd really like to ask you to really watch your words and finish your story. Then we'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u152	To avoid misunderstandings...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u153	I would be very grateful if you would confirm to me as President that you really take your words into account in this Chamber. It is also my role to monitor that. I see the reactions of my fellow Members. I am sure that outside this Chamber your words can be interpreted as very offensive. So I really want to ask you to pay attention to that. Then I'll give you the floor again to finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u154	To avoid misunderstandings: The Forum for Democracy does not advocate in any way that the horrors of the Second World War come close to what is currently being done to unvaccinated people. Of course not. It's a sliding bowl. First the Jews were excluded to go to the movies, then they were allowed to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr. Van Meijeren, I'd like to suspend the meeting and have a word with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u156	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u157	I would ask Mr Van Meijeren to finish his story. I call Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr. Chairman. In 2010, Mr Job Cohen claimed in an interview in Vrij Nederland, and I quote: "Muslims in the Netherlands are excluded like the Jews that happened around the beginning of World War II." Where was the indignation back then? Muslims in the Netherlands were not excluded from social life; they have always been welcome, in every restaurant, in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u159	Unfortunately, I'm suspending the meeting again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u160	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. Our democracy, in so far as democracy can still be spoken of at all, is not working at all. Mainstream journalism is unbelievable today. Not to be taken seriously anymore. Not even interested in the truth, but especially pressure to manipulate the truth. Not control of power, but lapdog of power. An applause machine of power. In fact, we are not talking about journalists here, we are talking about activists. Journalists and researchers who do take their role seriously and dare to look for the truth, face serious threats, censorship, aggression and intimidation practices. Even from the government. Take the Blackbox journalistic platform. A journalist who conducted an interview with someone critical of government policy got the police at the door. The reason: he would have interviewed a conspiracy thinker. When he asked, "What is a conspiracy thinker?', He was told by the police, I quote: "Someone who thinks the opposite is what the government expects." So if you think differently than the government expects, you can expect the thought police at your door. How does the Minister assess these horrible harassment practices towards the free press? Other minister's officials are also intimidating. The journalistic platform De Blauwe Tiger was identified in the NCTV threat analysis as "an anti-government propaganda pass-through." So if you don't copy the government propaganda instantly, like the mainstream media, but make a sound like that, then you're a threat to the government. And words are not without consequences. ING then decided to block the bank account of this journalistic platform, as well as bank accounts of many other journalistic platforms that make a critical sound in the corona debate. Researchers who published about the excessive violence by the police against corona protesters were confronted with serious death threats. Can the Minister indicate the state of play of a criminal investigation into these death killers? And how does the Minister judge the harsh reality that journalists who do not yield to government pressure to take over the corona propaganda face severe aggression? I'd like a response. The Forum for Democracy will always work hand-in-hand for the freedom and security of our journalists. Because without the free press, no democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. There are a number of questions. I would like to ask Members the following. I think I have just addressed Mr Van Meijeren on behalf of your Chamber. Let us not have that discussion again, but if you have a new point that you want to respond to, then that is possible. I don't think that's the case. Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. The directors have indicated that they need about twenty minutes to prepare themselves. I shall suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u163	We're due for the first term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security and then to the Secretary of State. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u164	Mr. Chairman. I actually want to start by saying something about the end of the first term. I'm telling you, it's bothered me well, to say the least. You know me as someone who is generally inclined in debates to let a lot of things get over him, as long as we can move forward. But as far as I am concerned, and therefore as far as the government is concerned, this is totally out of bounds. But now I don't see Mr Van Meijeren. I therefore propose that I continue with my speech so that he has the opportunity to come here. I have a habit of telling each other in the face how you feel about things. It's part of democracy, too, I think. Now it is nice that I had adjusted my speaking time in response to this at the end, but then you see how freudian life can be. I said to the officials: start with the text, but the first sentence is: Mr President, we have a powerful democracy. I said: a beautiful democracy. I want to stick to that, too, that it is a beautiful democracy. If only because we're here and because there's always the possibility of getting me or colleagues together and jumping here. That's exactly what happened this afternoon. Then you will address us and, in my case, I will usually explain why this may not be 100% justified. Then we'll come to a solution with each other. When it is justified, this can lead to a change in the way we think about it or could lead to motions. Then we'll know how to proceed. In all this, journalism plays an essential role. It has been said by many, so I repeat here others when I say that aggression and violence against journalists simply harm the core of the rule of law, point. Mr Kwint also said this very strongly. But I'm going to add something. Ambiguity with regard to that freedom is equally damaging. Undoubled, you have to say: there is freedom. I'm just gonna... No one's walking to the interrupting microphone. Then we agree on that, too. Freedom from our press is not only a great asset, but it means that you are also happy if it is not pleasing to you. If anyone can talk about that, I am, but that's not interesting at all. That's not the point. That's gotta be insane! Many of you have said something about Peter R. de Vries. I spoke to your room about that before the recess. I want to leave it at that. That's not because it doesn't matter to you and me, but because there's a criminal investigation going on. Mr Eerdmans and I exchanged views on this. My body-anguague was not meant to do so because of the content of the report, which Mr Eerdmans and I are simply doing in the debate, but I thought that we should stay away from it in the interests of research, justice and justice. I would like to say that the day after the attack with all the players in our rule of law I talked extensively about their security, including with the NVJ and the Dutch Society of Editors. Having said that, it is clear that the security and freedom of journalists are at the forefront. I would honestly say that the insecurity of journalists and the aggression and violence against them have increased over the last decades, over the last ten years and even over the past year. Last year there were 179 cases of aggression and violence against journalists. In the first half of this year there were 211. Do you want me to say anything else? I'd like to mention a few cases. With all due respect to the courageous crime journalists who have been called.I fully support that.I would like to point out the fire bomb at the Groningen journalist Willem Groeneveld and a photojournalist who is driven into a ditch with a shovel. You will hear me speak of this with a voice upliftment. It shouldn't get crooked! It makes the work unsafe and unfree. It sabotages a good, independent position of the press, regardless of what they write you like or not. It also affects personal life. And you can see that. You can see that the climate in which journalists work has become more grim over the past ten years. The example that has been mentioned, I am looking at Mrs Palland, but more people have called it "the marks taken off the NOS bus', says something about how grim it is. When I spoke to one of the NIS people, he did indeed have a talking story about it. That is precisely why many measures have been taken by both the government and the sector since the publication of the 2017 investigation "A threatening climate" and the creation of PressSafely. They are not only repressive, but also preventive, similar to the measures that were used at the time with the Safe Public Task programme. This safe public task is also being undermined in this respect, as has already been said in the context of organized crime. But we have to fight that together and fight it. It is good to mention that the inclusion of the profession of journalists in the special penalty provision for threat, as provided for in the law on strengthening criminal action undermining crime, adopted in your Chamber on 1 June, sends a far-reaching signal about the important role and contribution of journalists in that rule of law. The proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure now also includes the proposal on doxing. I must say to Mrs Michon-Derkzen, who has played a very exciting role in this, that the processing of the consultation is almost complete. Then it goes through the Council of Ministers to the Council of State. This week, as I would like to tell you, I said about this bill: it really has to go on. If there are any Members in your Chamber who would find that controversial, then that is what we need to talk about. Then there is the WODC research, to which Mrs Kathmann referred, on the development of violence against journalists over recent years. This explicitly focuses on unsub-typing and explores whether and what additional measures are possible and desirable. I just want to say that this doxing proposal is really important, because if you get a fire bomb at your door and your private data has been disclosed over the Internet at the same time, you feel physically and psychologically cornered on all sides. Again, that's what we're up against. That's just an introduction. I see your member Van Meijeren has returned. It seemed appropriate to me to wait until he got back. The simplest thing is that we are not in a tyranny here, regardless of whether it can be seen as tyranny at some point if you have to listen to a ruler for too long. The Chamber can, sometimes with qualified majorities and sometimes not, send the cabinet home. I have said over and over again in speeches on organised crime in recent years: no, we are still a rule of law and we are still doing well together, even if we have to make a great deal of effort on this issue. At the moment when there is a minister who aligns about every three sentences with gangs from other countries, South American countries, we can assume that we do not have the democratic rule of law anymore. But we are far from that. I really think that any comparison is true of any comparison with the suffering caused by the Second World War, all the way through the persecution of the Jews, tasteless and testifying to a complete lack of knowledge and also of decency. I'm just gonna say it loud and I'm gonna find out how they're gonna react. I would like to recommend the exhibition Survivors - Faces of Life after the Holocaust at the Fotomuseum at the Vrijthof in Maastricht, where photos of survivors have been projected. Well, I thought this was enough to meet the subject you were talking about at the end of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u165	A response from Mr Van Meijeren from Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u167	You need to press the microphone button with your foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That comparison with World War II was provoked when I indicated that we should not yield to tyrants. My question is: does the Minister think that, although the democratically legitimized regime of Adolf Hitler should not have been contradicted? Should there have been no civil disobedience against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u169	This is what we call a category error in the doctrine of law. Now, of course, it is a question of whether I should explain this here, because then I am going to give lectures that I have given for years and that may be very pedantic. Let me say this about it. The Nazi regime has come to power in a way that historians have sufficiently established and proved that there was at least democratic forgery, let me just mention. It was also an extremely criminal regime from the outset, and I would like to point out that many of the Nazi headpieces in the recent past, for 1933, had convictions for serious violent crimes. Let me start with that. This means that any comparison with a rule of law where parliamentarians are democratically elected and where a government rules by the pardon of parliament is flawed for that reason alone. And then I haven't even mentioned the horrible crimes against humanity that the Nazis had in common. I say this with emphasis because someone who quotes a poem by Van Randwijk, a poem about the Nazis, just for a small part of the book, makes a suggestion. The poem is chiseled in stone on the Wetering circuit in Amsterdam. For those who do not know: Van Randwijk was one of the members of the resistance group Vrij Nederland. As far as I am concerned, anyone who does so ignores that democratic basis, but also ignores the completely criminal nature of the criminality of the Nazi regime against humanity. It seems to me that this is a sufficient answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u170	I would like to ask both of you, because this issue is out of order in this debate, to leave it at that and to focus on the subject at hand: aggression against and threat to journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u171	Very briefly. I asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u172	Yes, you asked a question and the Minister replied. But I really want to stick to the order of this debate. It is also my role as President to monitor the order of this debate. I would also ask the Minister to abide by that. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u173	Mr. Chairman. I have received a number of questions concerning various subjects. I'll start with PressSafe. There are a lot of speakers, so forgive me for not focusing on one speaker. First of all, I would like to mention the status of the regional contact points, which I am talking about in my letter of March of this year. The police have confirmed to me that within each unit there will be a central point of contact for VPT-related cases. The police have already promised before the summer that this will now be completely lifted. You want to know exactly. I admit that I am sending a letter to you for my budget debate, stating exactly how and where it is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u174	I see Mr Van Meijeren standing there. I assume he has a question on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u175	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u176	Wait a minute. I give you the floor. Mr Van Meijeren has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u177	The point is that the Minister has just been given an extensive opportunity to accuse me of everything and to criticize me. Mr President, at the time I wanted to defend myself against this, I was told by you at once that we are now moving on to another subject of the debate. I would therefore ask you to give me the opportunity to respond to the Minister's false allegations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u178	No, I'm not gonna do that. You had the opportunity to give your vision very comprehensively just before the suspension. The Minister waited for you to come in before he responded. You will also have a second term later, but I really want to ask you to stay with the order now. I do agree with you that the Minister was a little elaborate in his response. I'll admit that, too. That is why I have also called on the Minister to stick to the order of the debate. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mr. Chairman. Extensive, but historically correct. Then there is the research of I&D Research in the framework of PressSafe. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Den Haan. She's worried about how you're gonna make that hotline even more public. It is now known by 80% of respondents. I think this could be even better. It's a lot, but I really think it's going to go to 100%, and otherwise something underneath. PressSafely in the near future will be committed to additional publication. I admit that, wherever possible, I will bring it to the attention of journalists and the media in a good way. I would also call on your Chamber to do the same, but I would just like to say that I will ensure that this is done in a structural manner. Within each unit, that is also a point of Mrs Den Haan. I've explained how that works. Mr Eerdmans asked for an update on the number of reports the police have included in the handling of PressSecurity. I've got a lot of numbers here. Actually, I would suggest that I share those numbers as soon as possible, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, in a letter instead of reading them all here. I see that Mr Eerdmans is putting his thumb up, so I assume that this is all right. Of course, I am also saying this for the figures from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Van Baarle pointed out an important point, namely registration. Recording's getting better and better. The protocol which includes the heavier penalties is constantly applied. I have indicated to the prosecutor that we really have to introduce a number of domestic measures before the end of the year, so that every officer dealing with this will immediately think: oh yes, I have to register. I propose that we return to that for my budget. So I'll come back to all those numbers. I am also doing this on behalf of Mr Slob for Education and Media. Mrs Michon-Derkzen asked: what about the heavier punishment? The protocol regulates that perpetrators of violence against journalists will be severely dealt with by the prosecution, for example by an increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u181	I have a question if this is the end of the block of PressSafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u182	Pretty much, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u183	Then I suggest that we add a very small piece to that block, namely continuity and funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u184	Yes, Mr Kwint has a point. Let me say first of all that it is my starting point and that of Mr Slob that we continue to do so. This means that we are going to make structural funds available for this. I will also immediately answer Mr Van Haga, who rightly expressed concern as to whether it would work if at the same time you saw the increase in violence. We see that PressSecurely is effective with the services, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. What is also very important is that police officers in the field increasingly understand the circumstances and the situation. For this increasing violence, the WODC investigation is so important, because that way we can determine who these perpetrators are. Why do they do things like this when other people who are unhappy about the press don't? Back to Mr. Kwint. I think we should look at whether we should set up PressSafely even more comprehensively when we have these things in a row and that structural money is there. Mr. Chairman. I told Mrs Michon-Derkzen that a maximum penalty of 200% would be applied to the prosecution's sentence. Things get picked up with priority and there's as much lick-on-piece policy as possible. It is also good to mention that the profession of journalists has also been included in the legislative proposal threat at the end of June. This has a standard-setting effect. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Michon-Derkzen asked about community service for the perpetrators. The bill, which is now in the First Chamber, concerns policemen and staff of fire department and ambulance. During the examination of that bill in your Chamber, I undertook, following the Van Dam/Van Wijngaarden motion, to include the question of whether you should include the profession of journalists in this broader research of the WODC, an investigation to which I have referred several times. So that's what we're looking at right now. Mr Eerdmans asked about the implementation of the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u185	Before you continue, Mrs. Michon-Derkzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u186	Let me get this straight: when does the Chamber get that investigation from the WODC and when can we talk about it? No misunderstanding, of course, it is my group's concern that we should involve the journalists as soon as possible. You mentioned them as police and paramedics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u187	I need to... I think I'll know in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u188	Otherwise, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u189	Yes. I think I'll know in a short time. I already know: in the summer of 2022! I heard someone say something outside the microphone, but I really think we should go through with this right now. Once again, I think it is very important that we highlight those motives and the backgrounds of the people who are doing this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Van Nispen motion and the Eerdmans motion. I must say, however, that more motions have been adopted by your Chamber on strengthening the criminal justice chain and extending the approach to undermining and so on. Let me start by saying that I have always said that organised crime, which indeed affects the freedom and security of our journalists, requires a thorough approach. That's really something for the longer term, because we've been working on it for at least ten years. This requires continuous investment, and I believe that I have already said that it requires broad investment, including in the criminal justice chain. The two words 'invest further' are, I think, also inevitable in this context. In the short term, but after Prince's Day, I'll send your Chamber a comprehensive letter on that. Mr President, you know that what I have said here has always been the same. Not only in the press, but also in the cabinet itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u190	There is a question from Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u191	It is good practice that all the pieces for Prince's Day are in the newspaper before it, but now the Minister says: you will hear it after Prince's Day. Does this mean that we cannot face a major investment in the Millions' Note on Combating Organised Crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u192	No, you'll get a letter from me after Prince's Day. I think I'd be out of order if I sent you a letter on Prince's Day. I don't think that's been shown before. You can also assume that, not only during the last six weeks, after the exceptionally sad assassination of Peter R. de Vries, but also before that, I have been running very fast and running so that we can continue to invest very firmly in this. That is all I want to say at the moment, otherwise I will be out of line. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga's question actually came up with that, because he asked: what are you going to do about it, about the brutality of this violence? Let me focus on the violence against journalists. In the attack I mentioned on that Groningen journalist, you could see that the lick-on-piece policy was actually applied directly. This is not only true of the individual case, because Mr Van Haga, of course, asked for a broad offensive. That is what we have used; it is called Botoc, a broad offensive against undermining crime. In doing so, we are strongly committed not only to repression, but also to the taking away of every penny. I think that is a very important part of this, and I would like to speak to your Chamber on the occasion of my letter after Princess's Day for a longer period, including in the area of prevention, in order to prevent young people from coming into the temptation or in the urge or compulsion to join. This also means that we focus very much on neighbourhoods where it is very difficult and where the temptation can sometimes be very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u193	Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u194	Thank you for that answer. These are all fine words, of course, but in the meantime it is becoming increasingly dangerous on the streets and it is becoming increasingly difficult for journalists to do their job. Not only for journalists, by the way, but also for politicians, which is a cause for concern. I asked another question; perhaps you could answer it right away. I asked how in God's name is it possible that criminals in prison just carry on with their criminal business, that they conspire murders or just continue their drug trafficking. Of course, we don't know, but maybe they'll have people killed, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u195	Well, "beautiful words": from 2017 onwards, the cabinet has been focusing on additional investments in the fight against this undermining crime. Also in 2020, despite covid. Mr Van Haga has had to say with me that the total investment I would have liked was not made because of covid, but a large part of it still is. The point is, of course, that with these investments I cannot change a number of points in our rule of law. We can certainly deal with certain issues. Recently, it was seen that, as Mr Van Haga describes it, there were criminals in their cells running their business. But we must continue to realise that in the rule of law we have, of course, we must respect the rules that govern it. This also means that we cannot, let me put it this way, accept the methods used by criminal organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u196	It is good that you mention covid, because there is a huge difference in attention and emphasis. We have spent EUR 80 billion to combat a pandemic and take all kinds of measures. They have been largely counterproductive, but that is a completely different debate. I would like to give you a heartfelt voice, and I hope that my colleagues here will agree with me. If we can spend so much on completely pointless measures as far as I'm concerned, then your department really deserves a big share, or a much larger share, of that cake, so that you may be able to go after all those criminals and make our living environment safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u197	I am going to save you time, but I would like to have said in one sentence that I fully distance myself from the suggestion that the corona approach would have been counterproductive. But that is, I think, especially for another debate. Then I say that Mr Van Haga, like the 149 other Members, can constantly push me on the fact that much is needed to reverse the undermining of the rule of law. It takes a long breath. That also means that I and my successors must continue this long-term relationship. Again, on Prince's Day, I come with a detailed letter. I propose that Mr Van Haga continue this debate in substance on the basis of that letter and see what further constructive or destructive criticism is being made of what needs to be done. Mr. Chairman. I have already confirmed to Mrs Van der Werf that we are continuing structural support for Press Sacrifice. I would add that, of course, it is primarily the responsibility of employers and employers to ensure the safety, health and well-being of the journalists working with them. That is also why we have a separate budget forzzp'ers. I would like to give Mrs Van der Werf the following undertaking. Let me also do that in the collectible letter for the next debate, which I am sending for the budget debate. I admit that I will look into the current situation with regard to thezzp'ers budget and whether sufficient use is being made of it. Tradition tells me that it is, but I think it is good to establish that with each other. I would also like to express my appreciation for the fact that employers are also taking up their responsibilities, because a number of employers and industry organisations are also contributing to the Press Sacrifice project. For example, the public broadcasters and NDP News media do so. That's very good. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the flexible protection package of freelance journalists, which Mrs Palland had a question about. I told you, that's $200,000 now. PressSafely tells me that the package meets the need of freelance journalists to be able to take flexible measures, but it is only available for a few months and it is now too early. That is why, through you, President, I promised Mrs Van der Werf that I would see where we stand and how it works in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u198	I had also asked the Minister whether there was any insight into the availability of this budget among all freelancers. Of course, it may be that a small group knows about it and that is why it is sufficient, but it would be worrying if a larger group of freelancers didn't know about it. Do we have a picture of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u199	I have to look at that a little deeper, because the parties in Press Security are telling me that it is, but it is complicated of course that I do not know if they know anyone who does not know, if you can follow me. That is why I would like to list a number of things about freelancers in the letter I am sending for the budget. Mr. Chairman. Another point from Mrs Ellemeet was those social media platforms. First of all, I would like to say that the Digital Services Act in Brussels talks with each other. I very much support that, also because I believe, as your Chamber is well-known, that there is some content going on through social media, and I particularly focus on child abuse, which, as far as I am concerned, does not deserve any alibi in the area of free press or freedom of expression. That is indeed a subject that certainly deserves further investigation, especially because... You've got to be very careful how you're gonna set that up. With all child abuse content, as I'll just mention it, as you may know, taking-and-shaming and giving the providers three months to remove all that crap from your server, that kind of customer, was something that could be pretty simple, because those points of freedom of speech and of press didn't play. This is a bit more complicated matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u200	My group also welcomes the developments in Brussels. However, the Minister knows as well as I do that these are stretches of the very long term. It could take seven years before such a Digital Services Act is actually implemented. Here we see the negative effects of the lack of supervision of the social media platforms in the Netherlands. We know they don't all have a hotline, we know PressSafely doesn't even have contacts on some of those platforms. My question is: would the Minister also be prepared to consider what could possibly be started earlier in the Netherlands prior to the regulation from Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u201	Yeah, but you always have to see that in the context of Europe. Let us be quite honest, the internet is, of course, a lame one, but it doesn't stop at Lobith, where the Rhine enters our country. Of course, this cannot be defined at national level, and the parties I am talking to, even when it comes to social media, are often very large parties based in America or in other countries other than the Netherlands. It is very difficult not to do that with, for example, 26 or 27 others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u202	Sure. That is why it also thinks it is a good idea that we ultimately want to regulate it at European level. At the same time, we see that agreements are already made with a Facebook Netherlands, albeit on a voluntary basis, and not with other platforms. I understand his point, but I would like to ask the Minister to investigate what can already be started, so that there is more control over eliminating the negative consequences of the abuse of platforms in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u203	I'm gonna put that in your room a little bit very carefully. If your Chamber were to say 'go ahead', I would certainly do so enthusiastically. I spoke to the iPhone producer very recently about this. Last summer, of course, we have also been able to follow how quickly a certain resistance comes when you come up with a certain well-thought-out initiative. Once again, I will wait and see what your Chamber would like, but I would always like to include the international, European component in such an investigation. That can be done indirectly or in second instance, but it has to be done. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koekkoek asked: how are you going to guarantee that the media have sufficient access to financial support? Journalism is supported in the Netherlands by the Research Fund for the Journalism and the Special Journalism Projects Fund. The Journalism Fund stimulates the quality, diversity and independence of journalism. The Special Journalism Projects Fund supports time-consuming journalistic projects, for example investigative journalism. A grant can then be applied for. I understand that there will be another committee debate with Mr Slob. I think it is appropriate, perhaps, to discuss this further. Mrs Koekkoek also referred to Finland's approach to combating fake news. I understand that many schools in the Netherlands already pay attention to media and news wisdom. OCW and BVOM support the Media Wisdom Network. This includes more than 1,000 partners and gives all kinds of knowledge, but also ideas to organisations about how you can get started with students. An important project is BeeReal. That is a project with the support of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations to make young adults more resilient to the consequences of disinformation, because of course it is still there, but the question is how you deal with it. I have to assume that we will really get on with each other, but I am careful to say that this also seems to me to be something to work out in the debate with Mr Slob. In this respect, I will also give Mrs Den Haan's point about increasing aggression against journalists in the schools for journalism to Mr Slob, but I would point out that the NVJ has received an amount of one and a half tons, including for giving online lectures in the schools for journalism on safety. It is therefore necessary to put on all the necessary'sorry' measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u204	There is a question from Mrs Kathmann, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u205	The budget the NVJ received for this is also part of the protocol. My question on this is whether we have arranged for the education programme, which is incredibly important in prevention, to be continued on a multiannual basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u206	I really need to check this out. We could call Arie Slob in the second term, 'cause I don't know about this. But I can come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u207	Perhaps we can return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u208	It can also be written.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u209	That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u210	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bikker asked if a public campaign could strengthen the norm in society. I think that's a pretty "pivotal" point, as the English would say. That's what it's all about. We are talking a great deal about repression, about security and about making journalists resilient, but of course it is primarily about the public looking in the mirror, at least part of the public, and realizing that it is really out of line. Earlier this year I started the "Taskforce Our helpers safely." Sadly, this has been done in order to bring about a change in behaviour among individuals and groups in society, with all kinds of communication and other projects, as far as police, fire brigade, boas and ambulance workers are concerned. Although this task force focuses on this, it is of course certainly the case that this should also help to prevent violence against journalists and other public service providers. I know a journalist isn't a public service provider, he's not in service with the government, but he's obviously showing our society what's going on, so to speak. I would certainly like to talk to your Chamber about it, perhaps later, to what extent we may need to do something separate for journalists at some point in time on this point. Once again, I find the increase in violence extremely shocking. Mr. Chairman. Members Palland and Van der Werf were wondering about the system. I find it hard to say a lot about that now. In principle, the system has a number of obligations over and over again. That's what it gets really good at. When it comes to specific security situations against your Chamber, I said that I asked the Security Research Council to investigate what lessons could be learned from the security situations of the key witness's brother, his then lawyer and his confidant. I think that from what is coming out of that research we can see much more whether what we are doing is still things that should be different or better. I am not just talking about what the security guards are doing, but also about what is happening to each other, including those involved. I believe that Mr Kwint also asked who would do that. That is the Research Council, but it always brings in experts for this kind of research to know all about the subject at home. Mr. Chairman. Mr Eerdmans, who wondered whether journalists threatened should not be covered by the national domain. Monitoring and securing that system is the whole set of regulations and agreements. One of the basic principles is that security monitoring is primarily decentralised. This means that you will then fall under the responsibility of the decentralised authority, in this case the Chief Prosecutor in the relevant district. An exception to this is the case where there is a particular responsibility of central authority for certain persons or groups of persons, objects and services. That's the realm. That's the exception to the rule. We know a number of very well-known examples of this. Of course, this has to do with the fact that when responsibility is invested locally, all circumstances are well known locally. But of course it also has to do with our system. You have often heard me, and my predecessors too, say: local authority is about it, and that has to do with our decentralised system. I do not rule out the possibility that the investigation of the Safety Research Council may also give rise to a thought or recommendation on this point. Let's take a good look at that. Then I hope that I have also answered Mr Van Baarle's questions on the investigation of the Safety Research Council. Mrs Kathmann asked about the protection of crime reporters and asked about the time-limit for further action. The point is that the question of whether, and if so what, security measures are necessary and appropriate, is on the local triangle. In those particular exceptional situations, it is up to the Empire to determine that. You'll end up in that system. That works on that base. So I can't go into that any further. Again, at the Research Council we will see exactly what the findings are in those three specific, appointed cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u211	So it is true that we are talking about it when we look at the results of the Research Council? For example, we can learn a lot from countries like Italy, where sometimes hundreds of crime journalists are protected. Then it is also about, for example, the protection of our courts, where we still have a lot to do. Then it's about bigger budgets, including for personal security. I think we can't always just put that on the triangle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u212	Italy has been mentioned several times before. We can certainly learn from the good practices. I say quite honestly that experts have convinced me that we should not transfer too much one-on-one into the Netherlands. This cannot be because of all kinds of differences in how the system works and because of all kinds of differences in how society works. However, we certainly consult our Italian colleagues on all kinds of things that they use as good practices. For the rest, of course, there is no communication about measures such as those taken in a specific case. In the past, your Chamber has indeed had strictly confidential briefings on that point. We could do that at some point, but that is certainly not to be discussed in the plenary debate. As you can see, that has to do with safety. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question from Mr Van Meijeren. He asked about the state of the criminal investigation regarding threats to non-mainstream media. I cannot go into individual criminal matters, but I would like to emphasise here, as I said in my introduction..... because you cannot be ambiguous about the freedom of the press.... that the police do not distinguish between criminal investigations into threats, whatever journalist or medium they are directed at. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question of how I look at the definition of "conspiracy thinkers" used by the police. I am not aware that that definition is being used. My personal interpretation is that conspiracy thinkers are people who believe that there is a plan directed against them, without being able to show a causal link with the facts they claim. I admit this is my personal definition based on literature. Of course, you can go anywhere with that. I would like to leave it at that. I believe that our police do not distinguish between journalists as individuals or between the thoughts of those individuals, I would like to emphasise, in all respects. Mr. Chairman. Then I thought I'd answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mrs Michon-Derkzen and then Mrs Van der Werf. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u214	I thank the Minister for his answers. It may be a little more vigorous here and there as far as my group is concerned, but at least he has moved on with the proposal on doxing as a matter of urgency. I'd like to thank him for that. It is not for nothing that I made that very difficult in the debate in May. I have not for nothing asked Secretary of State Keijzer's presence in this debate about access to private data that poses such a great danger or threat to journalists. In this context, I would like to ask this Minister how he views the documentation and the letters we have received so far on the protection of private and branch data of journalists. I understand he says, "We speak with one mouth." You're doing your best for doxing, and here we seem to be heading in the wrong direction. I'd like your appreciation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u215	I could say things about the portfolio distribution, but I would find it very uncourteous of myself if Mr Keijzer had come here specifically and I would then stir my always prepared soul to an opinion. I'd like to stay out there. The only thing I would like to say to Mrs Michon-Derkzen is that doxing is something quite different from registering data anywhere, because someone is doing an activity for which the register serves. Doxing is just disgusting, I can't say it enough. It's scumbag, because it's publishing data from someone on the Internet, with the clear intention that others will use it for malicious purposes. That is why I have taken up Mrs Michon-Derkzen's initiative, fair and fair, as forceful as I have been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u216	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. It's a good thing you're explaining a little doxing again. The less easy it is to obtain data at all, the less easy it is to obtain the criminalisation of doxing, so there is a link between access to public registers and criminalisation of doxing. I also understand that you say that you are keeping your mind to yourself, because we have Secretary of State Keijzer for this debate for a reason, but I do see a relationship between that and that. I don't think we should try to close the tap on one side, while when you turn around, it just keeps walking, so we're going to talk about that even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u217	Mr. Chairman. We agree we don't agree, so I'll say. Still, may I give an example of a criminal record? That's very different from doxing. Once again, doxing is: without any legal basis, sticking someone's private data in public. A while ago, when the press asked me why I didn't think that should be done on the Internet, I also said: if you had put the home address of a journalist and all his data with cow letters on a wall here, I would also have said that I find that illegal in social traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I think I'm missing one more question. I had asked what is happening next to the Team Threatened Politicians to create an equivalent point of contact for journalists who are facing a similar threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u219	Yes! You're absolutely right about that. Let me look back: did I have an answer about that? I believe that we are indeed working on that. Can I come back to that in the second term? I'm sorry. I promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u220	Thank you. Mr Kwint and then Mrs Bikker. Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u221	When it came to the position of freelance journalists, I asked how the economic position of these freelance journalists is improved, precisely because, among other things, the NVJ establishes a very clear relationship between the dependence of a job and its ability to guarantee security. And we've been waiting two years for a motion to be implemented that allows for minimum rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u222	I promise the Cabinet will return to that. Mr Kwint knows from the literature that I have certainly taken positions on this in the past, but I am afraid that I will no longer be able to share in the birthday cake in the Council of Ministers if I am going to make a very strong statement on this issue. I'll admit the Cabinet will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u223	I was afraid I'd get this answer. Honestly, I understand that extremely well, given the portfolio that the minister has. You can't have an opinion about everything. Mind you, it has now happened two or three times, but it is ultimately the cabinet itself that decides not to send the Minister for Media to a debate on the media. I like getting that letter. I understand, but I find it clumsy; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u224	The cabinet did not have that in its sights; let me put it this way. But the letter is coming. And I have to admit to Mr Kwint that I have far more responsibilities than my job description at the time. Floods in Limburg, as it turned out. That sort of thing. It's a bit like you're constantly pulling the card "Repair your homes" at Monopoly. Doesn't matter! But this one really isn't for me. In the meantime, I have looked it up in the tradition of the oldest in one piece by broadcast quiz on TV, 2 to 12: the police are indeed preparing the same hotline for journalists as for politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u225	Yes, Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u226	I shall come back to that in the November letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u227	Oh, excuse me. I didn't want to talk through His Excellency. You understand that, Mr. Chairman. Luckily, I had trouble with my pedal. My question is in line with the Minister's answer. It has already been promised that there will be regional contact points for journalists who are in threatening conditions and who are wondering what to do now. I'm very happy about that. The Minister now repeats that he will come back to this in November, but before you know it, it will take and last. I would therefore like to hear two things from the Minister. One thing is: when does he think those contact points are there? That's one. And the second: what authority can they operate with? With all due respect, I've once been a starter in a position myself. You can find anything about things, but how much authority do you have? Then you'll find a lot. So those two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u228	Mrs Bikker is right that I have said a number of things that I will come back to. This may also have to do with the fact that we are just before a crucial Tuesday in our country, which makes me a little cautious in some things. It also has to do with the fact that I believe that the urgency I have already felt on this subject has increased by a factor of ten over the past eight or nine months, given the huge increase. So I have also said that we have a number of other things to settle. I will answer in that letter, in good time for the budget, in particular the point about how we are going to ensure that something authoritative is settled. That is, of course, absolutely the intention. So far, I think it has worked, but I promise to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u229	Of course, I'm glad that's happening. I can also assume that the Minister is on top of it in terms of time, as I know him, so that it can be achieved quickly and that we are not going to have another round of funding before it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u230	I understand. "Of course," I say through you to Mrs Bikker, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u231	The Minister just expressed his disgust at the phenomenon of "doxing." If I understand correctly, the Minister qualifies as doxing: publishing data on a particular person or organisation, and third parties then attach negative actions to it. Now it is true that the NCTV in the Threat Picture Terrorism has qualified the journalistic platform De Blauwe Tiger as a pass-through of anti-government propaganda. As a direct result, ING has decided to stop doing business with De Blauwe Tiger. Does the Minister recognise that by labeling De Blauwe Tiger with such a negative load, third organisations have drawn conclusions and that this is also a form of doxing, and that it is therefore very important that the Minister pay attention to the qualifications he gives to journalistic platforms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u232	No, and I'd like to explain that. Look, in the Threat Picture of Terrorism, NCTV pointed this out. The NCTV motivated that, too. Mr Van Meijeren and I clearly disagree about the motivation. I am also politically responsible for this, so I am always in our free democracy by addressing all 150 Members. I understand the content of the NCTV. The Threat View is aimed at identifying all trends in society that may pose a threat, possibly even in the sphere of terrorist activity. That is quite different than that you do doxing without any motive and without revealing your name. I would like to emphasise the following. In the past, NCTV has been involved in interim proceedings several times. That means I'm involved. This was discussed at that time. The judge said a few times that the NCTV is right. That was in the case of Muslim Rights Watch. That was November 2020, I say, memorized. In another matter, with an imam... I think it was an imam............................................................................................................................................ Of course, this can always happen, as well as the fact that a press release is sometimes judged unlawful by the courts. That's part of democracy: the judge can touch you. But that is completely different from putting someone's private data on the Internet, without mentioning yourself as a sender and without any valid reason, with the result that others may have evil intentions with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u233	That was a very long response without actually answering my question, because the fact remains that De Blauwe Tiger is a journalistic platform that makes a critical sound to the government, but in no way violates the law. Within the limits of the law from criticizing the government. Then it is smeared by the government in the NCTV report, with the direct result that ING decides to block the account of De Blauwe Tiger. As a result, the Blue Tiger is affected by the freedom to conduct journalism. This means that there can be less criticism of the government. Isn't that consistent with the definition of doxing that the minister just gave in the first place? Because whether it happens anonymously or not, it's about the result. This is a direct threat to free journalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u234	I am not going to repeat what I said before, because that is not good for all those present, I think. Again, the NCTV has explained this publicly, in the Threat statue, and has motivated it. I have outlined that, even in this case, the legal person operating De Blauwe Tiger has the freedom to refer this matter to the court and to say 'hear, this should not have happened' or 'it is not right'. I do not know whether there is also a cancellation of an ING account. The judge is in favour of checking whether the NCTV had a legitimate judgment. That's case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u235	Of course, the Blue Tiger can go to court. But quite apart from that it remains a fact that De Blauwe Tiger has not broken the law which is recognized by the Minister but that the consequences of naming in that Threat statue are that the account is blocked. This is clearly stated in many of the documents that the ING itself has confirmed. I find it very worrying that the Minister does not agree with all of this. I therefore hope that in future the Minister will accept his responsibility when it comes to attacking the free press, which is causing serious problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u236	I can't go over it, and I can't talk about whether or not someone's breaking the law. That's up to the state's attorney's office and the judge's office. So I would really say that any party who feels inadequate by the Threat statue should simply present it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u237	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. We're just gonna go clean up for a second. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State. I call the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am now entering into a fairly bureaucratic and legal discussion about the Trade Register, but I am committed to saying what is self-evident. Let me say first of all how bizarre it is what is happening at the moment, what has happened in a recent past and what is the trend in our society towards different professions, but especially in this debate with regard to journalists. It's not allowed. It's not right. It doesn't fit. We really need to see what we can do about it. Mr. Chairman. One of the discussions that you then have with each other is about how criminals, to give a qualification, then get to the addresses of journalists. One of these possibilities is the Trade Register. The Trade Register is established by law, which is designed to promote legal certainty in economic life and to provide information on the composition of undertakings and legal persons in order to promote the economic interests of trade, industry, crafts and services. In doing so, it also has a function of "Article 2 (c) of the Commercial Registry Act' by contributing to the efficient functioning and enforcement by the government. Those are legal tasks. But of course that is not the only thing, because the Trade Register Act also includes Articles 9 and 12, that establishment addresses should be registered and that public data requested from the Chamber of Commerce should then also be provided under Articles 21 and 22. There are therefore objectives of the Trade Register and then there are obligations of the Chamber of Commerce, which keeps that Trade Register. Is that the end of the discussion? No, of course not. In my responsibility as Secretary of State, I have also taken a large number of steps in recent years to adapt what was always normal and what we accept with each other as usual. Think, for example, of introducing an opt-in system for telemarketing, so that not everyone is constantly called on private phone numbers at all kinds of impossible times. Also, as a result of the Amhaouch motion from 2018, I started to protect residential addresses, as I say from my mind. This is now going so well that I hope that this January 2022 will be finally included in the relevant legislation "Commercial Register Decision'. I also terminated the provision of certain bulk data following an opinion of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. So every time something ends up on my desk, I try to look at it: do we ever have to stay that way or can you change it? The debate we are discussing today is in the 2020 Yeşilgöz motion and the 2021 Verhoeven motion. "C.s." I think I should add that because the motions have been signed by several Members of Parliament, and they have been adopted. The Yeşilgöz motion goes farthest. It requests that all home addresses be screened in public registers, following incidents where data from the registry was misused to approach and threaten specific groups of persons. That is the debate we are discussing today. Mr. Chairman. You'd think, "Just do that." Why don't you do that, Secretary of State, and this problem will be over. I think it is good to say that unfortunately it is not the case that all the problems are then over. There are still criminals, criminals and people who believe that it is normal to threaten, to commit violence and even to murder journalists. But, Mr President, the reason why I couldn't carry out that motion directly, I also gave it in a letter of inquiry. On sharing, I cannot carry out that motion, because there is other legislation separate from the Trade Register Act that does not allow for the default protection of all business addresses. Location addresses are also residential addresses in the situation of zzp'ers. For example, for companies, a business address must be publicly available in the Commercial Register. That is based on the Company Directive. In addition, the Wwft imposes obligations on financial service providers in particular. They need to be able to monitor their customers properly, and that's what they need that information for. In addition, traders providing goods or services to consumers should also disclose their place of establishment, even if that is a place of residence, on the basis of European consumer protection legislation. So in those cases, I can't protect locational addresses. Then you could choose to only protect the location addresses that are also residential addresses. That's what I hear you think, and that's what I hear you say. This is a major operation to begin with. This affects the ICT of the Chamber of Commerce. That's not something you just do. In addition, there are disadvantages. Because if you do that and you have a conflict with azzp'er or an entrepreneur once, you need a lawyer or a bailiff to get that data. You will always have to arrange something that will allow location data, even if they are residential addresses, to become obsolete. And then you need a lawyer or, for example, a bailiff. That's what gets people paid. This applies not only to entrepreneurs themselves, so for example a journalist who does work for another journalist and then doesn't get his money paid to whom should he address? For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: You ask a painter to paint your apartment. He says: it's incredibly busy; maybe I have a hole for you in the autumn holiday, but then you have to transfer €1,000. You transfer that, but everything that comes in the fall: not that painter. If you want to find out where you need to be, you need a lawyer or, for example, a bailiff. So, Chairman, there's a lot behind this. Is that why I don't think you should do it? No, that's ultimately up to the legislator. I do think that we should think carefully about the consequences of this. Are there other ways to protectzzp'ers, including journalists? For example, the Dutch Association of Journalists gives its members the opportunity to choose their place of residence at the address of the Dutch Association of Journalists. So you don't have to have your address in the trade register anymore, but this could be the NVJ's office. That's an alternative. What I am doing at the moment is what I have in the letter of Parliament following the Yeşilgöz c.s motion. To let your Room know... is to have an internet consultation, where all these questions have been discussed. It has now been completed and you can now find all this. I am currently working on a vision in which all these different aspects are taken into account. I'll send it to your room in the fall, so in a month or two. Then it is ultimately up to you to consider how we solve this problem. Again, as far as I'm concerned, the outcome may eventually be that you, leaving aside the exceptions I just listed, come to the conclusion that your location addresses, if they are residential addresses, are standard shielded. Then you have done so with all the consequences that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u239	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she has come to the end of answering this crucial question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u240	A number of other questions were asked to me, but I think this is the main reason why you asked me to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u241	All right. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, then to Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD and then to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u242	Thank you to the Secretary of State for explaining the dilemma. She actually sketches a dilemma and says: there are advantages and disadvantages to it. Let me take away the misunderstanding: I also see that there are advantages and disadvantages. The Secretary of State says it's a major operation, but it's also a major problem. If it wasn't, we wouldn't be making this proposal. I have spoken to many journalists over the last few days, who say that this particular section forzzp'ers and freelancers is so incredibly important: the sense of security and sure that people cannot find your address through the Chamber of Commerce. The desire is there to be able to act quickly on that. It is really from the profession that I bring this to the attention again. I hear the Secretary of State say it's ultimately up to the Chamber. We will respond to that invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u243	This is how it works in a rule of law and in a democracy. You are ultimately the legislator. If at some point, after weighing everything, you indicate that a law needs to be changed, that is the outcome of the debate. All I have to do in this is to point out to you the consequences of this and to indicate where you do not have that competence because there is higher legislation that makes that impossible. But I know it's a major problem. I would just like to say to those journalists who are now concerned: see if together with the Association of Journalists you can at least organise a solution for the here and now. I'm sure I can see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u244	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u245	I read the Secretary of State's letter very well. It is really because of the urgency that my group is already weighing up: do we want to wait months, or do we now have enough information and do we see the complexity? On that basis, we will take a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u246	Thank you. Mrs. Michon of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u247	I would like to make one comment. Of course it is up to you, but you have to realize that this means that if a zzp'er has a conflict with another zzp'er, or if a citizen has a conflict with a zzp'er, then costs must be incurred to get the data. I'm just giving it to you, but that's one of the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u248	Excuse me, one more comment from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u249	Yeah, one last one. That's what I'm gonna tell my colleague. Sure. I think this is also a measure that you are taking temporarily, as long as the threat is great. It is true that there are difficult situations to deal with. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u250	If I may, I hear Mrs Ellemeet say 'temporary'. I think she means that you can request from the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Kwint spoke about this too, that you can be protected in the event of a specific threat. That's right. That's something the Chamber of Commerce is doing right now. Can you then choose, as Mr Kwint says, if there is a threat, are you too late to do so already? It's not because it's complicated when it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u251	Yes, thank you. First Mrs Michon-Derkzen, then Mr Kwint, then Mrs Van der Werf and then Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u252	I must confess to you: the vote will not improve on me after I hear your story. You're all saying things we already know. This Chamber has been working for such a long time to ensure that the home addresses are protected by Mrs Yeşilgöz's motion, which explicitly states home addresses, and also those addresses as a home address are the same as your establishment address, and that the competent authority should always have access to them. You are actually repeating the debate that has been going on for at least a year. They were trying to shield the home addresses. My predecessor, Mrs Yeşilgöz, and also Mrs Ellemeet's predecessor, along with Mr Palland's predecessor, came up with this motion: make sure that, in the event that the address is the same, there is no data on home addresses. Then we'll all get stories about why we can't. In June, we receive an opinion from the Dutch Data Protection Authority that does not prevent European legislation from doing so. He literally says where thezzp'ers are concerned: with natural persons this can be done. And you repeat it here again and say: there will be a consultation, then you look again and it is up to you. This room has already decided. I am also very pleased that you are hearing the debate today. It is necessary for the safety of journalists to protect home addresses. It just needs to be done as soon as possible. I look forward to that consultation and I'll read it. I'd like to call again today to secure home addresses as soon as possible. Finally, you are talking about a major operation at the Chamber of Commerce. It begins with legislation ensuring that these home addresses are protected. The Chamber of Commerce is, as I hear the sounds, much more likely to participate in this operation than I have heard so far from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u253	Mrs Michon's drive is always wonderful to see, but the Chamber cannot decide to ignore the company directive. It is my job, I would almost like to say, to forgive me if I may, to hold the Chamber where the limits are to what the Chamber wants. That is what I said on behalf of the cabinet in a letter in response to the Yeşilgöz motion. I do not want to repeat myself, but I said: these are three situations in which, if they are residential addresses, you cannot protect them, because then you get into a mess with other and higher legislation. Here it is possible, but allow me to consult on the consequences. It's finished. He's coming to the room. It's up to the Chamber eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u254	I repeat, the Chamber has already decided. Now you say: but Europe is not allowed to do so. I quote from the opinion of the Personal Data Authority: "The publication of the location address is necessary for example for the e.g. and the nv under European regulations. However, such an EU legal obligation does not apply to the publication of the establishment address, often also the address, of e.g.zzp'ers. Therefore, both registration and disclosure of the business address of natural persons are the result of national choice and result from national regulation." So we are on the move here and we have decided that we want to protect this data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u255	Exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u256	I do think the Secretary of State interprets her role very closely. It is good to hear that we are actually in charge, but we have, of course, made statements on this before. This isn't coming out of nowhere. But let me say something positive: I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State in this cabinet is so passionately calling on people to join a union. As a SP'er, I'm glad to hear that. I asked another question about the Land Registry. This is somewhat broader than the Chamber of Commerce, but there is the same problem at the heart, namely that it is quite easy to request people's home addresses. I hadn't heard an answer to that. I don't know if that was still in a block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u257	No, that's not my call. In my view, this falls within the remit of the Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u258	Perhaps it could be included in the same letter on that other subject that these two rulers were not about. There's a similar thing going on. Soon, through the Chamber of Commerce, we will finally have shielded ourselves from being able to obtain the address of an independent entrepreneur. But if you walk to the Land Registry and you pull the personal data of someone out of the closet, then someone is still on the sidewalk. I would appreciate it if there was someone in the cabinet who could send something useful to the Chamber, because I think journalists deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u259	There's a letter coming to the Chamber anyway, so maybe this can be taken into account. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State, too. The Secretary of State nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u260	Of course we're taking this with us. We are always prepared to provide the Chamber with information. So we'll make sure that that information comes to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u261	We're pleased to hear that. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u262	The entire revenue model of the Trade Register currently stands in the way of the prevention of threats, especially againstzzp'ers. What I do not understand very well is that you talk about people's own responsibility. In fact, they are first obliged to enter their address and then they have to arrange that someone else can't find it. How exactly do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u263	The Trade Register Act was discussed and adopted in the Chamber in 2007. So it's like the law is designed right now. There's nothing I can do about that. There are interests behind that. That is why, in this debate, I started to share with you the interests of that Trade Register. Then I indicated to you what I have done over the past few years about situations that you think have occurred: we have decided this way once, but can't it be otherwise? For example, the protection of residential addresses, which is currently being regulated and, as it now looks like, will take place on 1 January 2022. The opt-in system against the annoying sales calls that started last July. What I've done every time is to solve where there was a problem. I've done that consultation now. It will be completed in the autumn. So in two months, you'll have that for a discussion. And in the end, it's really up to the House of Representatives. However, there is a lot to be done here: the fight against fraud, money laundering, opportunities as private individuals to get the address of an entrepreneur who does not do what he has promised you, but what you have paid for. That's why I thought it was right to give this to you. But if the Chamber considers that all residence addresses that are residential addresses should be protected, that is obviously up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u264	I think the Chamber made a very clear statement on this a long time ago. So that can't be anything new right now. The Secretary of State is now suggesting that this point should be raised during this debate. I made the previous point because you have just spoken a number of times about companies, while of course they are also aboutzzp'ers. It's very strange that they couldn't protect their address until afterwards. You could do that right away, couldn't you? A number of municipalities are now able to do the same. You move, you register in a new municipality and you can immediately check that you don't want your address to be visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u265	That's another discussion. A category error is called, I understand. That's another discussion. This is about the Trade Register, with a number of interests, where you register. The Amhaouch motion asked me to secure residence addresses. I do. Earlier we talked about the annoying sales calls. I will. Now this question is before us. With regard to the Yeşilgöz motion, I have informed your Chamber of the three categories in which it cannot be done because you are against other legislation. I also said to your Chamber: I am going to be consulting to see all the consequences of this. I'll give it to you in the fall. Then it is up to your Chamber to weigh everything and make a decision. It's not like I don't want to. It's not like that. I think I really have a track record where I keep looking at what else needs to be done and what else I can do. That goes for here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u266	In my opinion, what irritates several Members of this Chamber is that you say: now this question is before you. But he was way ahead of us. The Chamber had already made a statement and said: we do not want this anymore. Since it is a relevant threat for a very large group of people, we could of course have expected it to be picked up a little faster and with a little more urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u267	I think the Yesilgöz motion is from 2020. I've completed a consultation in a year where all these matters are dealt with. I'm doing the best I can. I see the problem. The solution contained in the motion is certainly a solution. My only function in this order is to do it carefully. That's what I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u268	Of course, Mr Kwint is absolutely right when he says that you are reasonably late if you can only have your address protected when there has already been a threat. I think it was Mr Kwint who said this. Yeah, I'm right, it was him. Recently, it has become clear that even if you have done so after it has been established that you are under threat, it is not so difficult to find your address. The news recently said that more than 1,800 addresses of directors, former directors, politicians and ex-politicians were on the streets. Underneath it was my address. Secretary of State Keijzer, I don't know if you've ever been threatened, but your address was also there. So the question arises: should you not even look at firmer measures, despite the limitations you feel about them, to really protect people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u269	Look at you, a new chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u270	You can play a piece in a short time... Well, okay. So I'm glad that's what they're looking at. But in the light of today's discussion, I hear you correctly say and explain very well why you cannot do certain things. But I would also like to hear to what extent you are not only willing to investigate what is already possible, but also what you really think is necessary. Do you understand the difference between those two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u271	Well, exactly that! I was thinking the same thing. I thought, "Don't let me make bad jokes." Mrs Simons has asked quite a set of questions about this. I have also answered these questions in detail. I think this is about the case where home addresses were protected. However, a lawyer, bailiff or government agency had requested such information, even though he had written himself off from the tableau. That is where the data were protected, but someone under false pretences....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Chamber of Commerce was right to act on that. The Chamber of Commerce has informed and reported everyone. The Personal Data Authority has been notified. The Chamber of Commerce is now looking at what's really going on with this authorization. Shouldn't there be a mid-term review? How do you do that? Exactly as Mrs Simons points out, this is the subject of an act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u272	Thank you, through the chairman. This concerns addresses that fell into a special category. So it remains to be seen that whatever measures we take, there are gaps in the system which can lead to very dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u273	Yes, I did, but that's also what I mentioned in the various letters of the Chambers. Premeditated: unfortunately, we'll never get it. We just have to realize that with each other. But in these various letters of Parliament, I have also indicated that, as far as I am concerned, all options are negotiable, as far as they fit into the higher legislation and are enforceable. Mr Kwint asked: but before there is a real threat, someone must be able to apply to the Chamber of Commerce for the protection of certain addresses. Then you have to realize yourself on the basis of which the Chamber of Commerce will then assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u274	I had Mrs Palland on the list for an interruption. I now hear that this is a different matter. Then Mrs. Michon-Derkzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u275	I'm listening very carefully to the Secretary of State. She says, "I'm doing everything I can to improve this." But that motion by Yeşilgöz, which we have been talking about for some time now, has been dissuade you. Then you also said in a letter: I am not carrying her out. You're not carrying her out. So you do not carry out that wish of the Chamber. Now you say that you can't; I can't do that because of European legislation. That is higher regulation that you say you must abide by. I quote from the opinion that, on this very point, journalists,zzp'ers and natural persons, there is no conflict with higher regulation. And now you say to Mrs van der Werf: I am in a good mood; I am doing a consultation; everything above water; it is quite complicated. What exactly are you gonna do or not gonna do? Do I understand why you're returning to your statement that you're not carrying out Yeşilgöz's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u276	In my opinion, the cabinet is always quite clear and I, as Secretary of State and as a human being, am also quite clear in my terms. The exceptions I was just talking about are about the WWTF... I've just lost the name of the abbreviation, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u277	A thousand years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u278	The company directive and consumer legislation: that's what it says. Forzzp'ers, it's a different discussion. The purpose of this consultation is to see what the problems are there. That comes to you and then we can come to the conclusion that it needs to be shielded, balanced and balanced. Mrs Michon creates some sort of contradiction between what I do and what the Chamber thinks, but I do not think there is, because I am, once again, looking at how you can do it, what its consequences are and whether there are alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u279	Very good. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u280	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The clarity of this Secretary of State also has some wonderful elements, but I can hear her very well. She says: I understand you well; you want those addresses to be protected. You are going to work on this and after the consultation we are going to go again with the entire Chamber, something we have already done, make the same statement and call on the Secretary of State to protect those addresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u281	Mr President, and yet... If that motion comes soon, I will give you the same judgment as I have given before. It cannot be done on parts, for example in the case of nvs and entrepreneurs who deliver to consumers. On other parts, I'm doing a consultation. The Chamber will have it in two months. If it's still the conclusion that this has to be done, then so be it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u282	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u283	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It is not at all about nvs and e.g.. Today we are talking about journalists, natural persons andzzp'ers, who suffer from violence and threats all day long. You can contribute to that by shielding those home addresses. That was also the whole idea behind the Yeşilgöz motion and behind all those discussions. So, apparently, after the consultation, we're going to ask again to settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u284	The Yeşilgöz motion was generally formulated. That's why I sent the letter to you the way it was sent. Today you are right to talk aboutzzp'ers who are journalists. That's what I started my term with. They're experiencing big problems. I understand that, but I am a member of the Cabinet; I am responsible for the Chamber of Commerce and I must do so carefully in accordance with the Trade Register Act, which has been adopted in your home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u285	Fine. Actually, I'd like to go to the second term. Is this on a new topic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u286	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u287	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u288	I feel like we're talking a lot past each other, and I'm trying to see what that's in. I read in the letter containing the opinion of the Dutch Data Protection Authority that it is specifically about that group of self-employed persons,zzp'ers, whose location address is also the address of residence. Of these, the Personal Data Authority indicates: you have two interests; the importance of legal certainty versus the interest of the data subject. In this case, the Personal Data Authority says, the interest of the data subject prevails because the threat is so great. They also say: it is thanks, among other things, to this protection for exceptional cases that the system of disclosure of the Trade Register Act does not unduly infringe the right of protection of private life, Article 8 ECHR. Is it not said that exactly what we want, also can be done, namely that you can protect it from this particular group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u289	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. The debate is about whether azzp'er can ask for protection from his home address because he is threatened. Yes, you may, and so does the Chamber of Commerce. That is different from the debate I had with Mrs Michon: would you like to design the Trade Register Act in such a way that standard for all companies location addresses are protected if they are also residential addresses? Of this I say: that may be a few exceptions, being non-zzp'ers, but it also has a number of consequences. Take the example of the painter, to name but one. Thank you to Mrs Ellemeet for the opportunity to explain these different situations once again. With effect from January 2022, all residential addresses, other than establishment addresses, shall be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u290	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u291	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. This isn't right, is it? It's about us...Look, with zzp'ers, the location address is also home address and you also want that location address to be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u292	That'll be about 1.2 million...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u293	In case of threats, eh, not for everyone, but in case of threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u294	We can do that now. If Mrs Ellemeet were a journalist threatened, she could submit the request to the Chamber of Commerce. Then that is looked at in the same way as the UBO registered and the Chamber of Commerce does. That is not the dispute we have at all; that is good governance. My experience is that the debate with Mrs Michon is about the question: do you want to change the Trade Register Act in such a way that standard establishment addresses that are also residential addresses are protected and only accessible to lawyers and bailiffs, for example? That can be done, with the exceptions I have just mentioned, but that is quite a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u295	Very good. Mrs Kathmann on this point. I really want to move on to the second term. Let's do it short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u296	I understand that, Mr President, but it is an important point. The question to the Secretary of State is: it's not quite right. I was just saying in my contribution, you always have to fix the roof when the sun shines. That's what I've been taught. There are now journalists reporting to have it protected. There is no threat yet, but they do feel that this is not a pleasant situation. They're getting zero on reeks now. You could go to a situation where you don't have to do all 1.2 million addresses, but you're serving anyone who's proactively reporting and saying, "I don't want this?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u297	There is no legal basis for doing so, because that means that someone reporting in a trade dispute will no longer receive that information. There is therefore no legal basis for this. Then comes the question I asked Mr Kwint: on what basis do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u298	Fine. The Secretary of State can finish as far as I'm concerned. Oh, who's finished? Mrs. Palland. Oh, I owed you an interruption. Bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u299	On another point, Mr President. We talked about social media and online platforms in the Minister of Justice and Security's term. He indicated that we should also deal with this in a European context. I get that. In my previous term in the EZK committee, I often had an exchange of views with Secretary of State Keijzer on the responsibility of online platforms, for example in terms of product safety and the like. Here's what I'm wondering. Social media must be social. We believe that for the excesses that take place there is also a responsibility for the platforms. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to promote enforcement from its portfolio?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u300	Enforcement on what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u301	To excesses and threats made on online platforms. Often these are the platforms that are not only located in the Netherlands. Minister Grapperhaus was right to point that out. How can you put enforcement on that and how can you regulate it in order to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u302	The Minister of Justice has just said a few things about doxing. You also have database rights. This is what the Chamber of Commerce designates as responsible for the data. In addition, you have the discussion about illegal content under the Digital Services Act. The Digital Services Act concerns European legislation and will replace the e-commerce directive. So it's not legislation yet. It includes how platforms are liable and accountable for threats, criminal insults and all that kind of stuff. That debate is certainly taking place at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u303	Mrs. Van der Werf, just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u304	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State for clarification, because I don't understand it anymore. She just said that there is the possibility of protecting data fromzzp'ers, but I quote the letter from the Dutch Data Protection Authority dated 28 June, where in the bottom sentence on page three it says: "The draft proposal"....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This removes an important "self-employed person' foreclosure option, which means that, even in exceptional situations where there is a threat, there is no protection for the person whose place of business is the same as his place of residence." Isn't that contrary to what the Secretary of State just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u305	No, I don't think so, but if you'll allow me, I'm gonna check this out to get back to you in the second term. This has to do with a ruling of the Board of Appeal for Industry in Mr Akwasi's case. I shall come back to this very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u306	Very good. Then this was the first term. Then we'll go to the second term. I hope we can all do it short and pointy. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Everyone has a third of the first-term speaking time, so that's roughly a minute. We're gonna listen to Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll read my motions straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that journalists receive many threats and intimidation via social media platforms, while not always adequately acting on these reports;]] [[Whereas recommendation algorithms of social media platforms stimulate polarisation, spread fake news and consumers have no influence and insight into the functioning of these recommendation algorithms;]] [[Whereas unlike Germany, there is little legislation and regulation that social media platforms have to comply with, while mainstream media companies have to comply with all kinds of laws and regulations;]] [[considers that the difference between social media platforms and mainstream media companies has faded and these platforms also explicitly serve a public interest;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Netherlands, in conjunction with European legislation in the short term, can better regulate these social media platforms in order to serve the public interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than one third of journalists are self-employed and their private data, including their address, are publicly accessible in the Register of the Chamber of Commerce (KvK);]] [[Considering that eight out of ten journalists are involved in violence and aggression and that the disclosure of their private data contributes to this threat;]] [[Whereas the Chamber previously unanimously requested that home addresses be protected, even if they are establishment addresses, except for competent authority (Yeşilgöz-Zegerius c.s., 35570-VI, No. 36);]] [[whereas the Authority also advises Personal Data to protect residential addresses from all natural persons, but the Cabinet also does not follow this opinion if the location address and address are identical;]] [[invites the Cabinet, in accordance with the opinion of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, to in principle protect the location addresses of self-employed persons when these are also residence addresses and to adapt the law accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-218]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-2019]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u308	Thank you, also for your conciseness. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. I think it is very good that we have discussed this important issue of press security with each other today. A lot of things have been put down that have to be done. I thank the JenV Minister for his answers and also for his decisive implementation of what is needed to ensure that all journalists here can do their important work in safety and freedom. Mr. Chairman. The reaction of Secretary of State Keijzer worries me a little. I did not participate in Mrs Ellemeet's motion for a resolution for nothing. It is not clear enough to me where the blockade is now in order to ensure that the addresses and locations, which are the same, can be protected from thosezzp journalists. I look forward to the consultation and I look forward to the appreciation of the motion. Then we will continue on this subject, because this is essential to ensure that journalists are able to do their job safely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u310	Thank you. Then Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Minister Grapperhaus for answering my questions. I am still tabling this motion, which has been co-signed by the colleague of DENK. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that increasing aggression towards journalists is putting pressure on press freedom;]] [[Whereas it is very important that journalists continue to be able to carry on their work unhindered and safe;]] [[Whereas it is important that young incoming journalists are preserved for the profession;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether journalism resistance classes, skills learning courses to deal with all forms of aggression can become part of the curriculum and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u312	Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u313	Thank you. Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Werf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers, although in all honesty I still miss the urgency with the Secretary of State. I would also like to ask the Minister if he can provide some kind of timetable for the evaluation of the system and secure it, as well as for the OVV investigation. I understand he can't say exactly, but an indication would be nice. Mr. Chairman. Words matter. That was the message of my speech, a message which I heard many colleagues convey here and which was once again underlined by the reprehensible comparisons with the Second World War that we heard in the previous period. It is precisely because there are many Members in this Chamber who systematically throw away journalists or make them suspect that it is very good that the majority is showing that there is another noise. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas eight out of ten journalists are concerned with threats or aggression;]] [[believes that this attack on the free press is also a threat to democracy;]] [[Considering that actions and statements made by MPs contribute to the climate of aggression and mistrust that results from these problems;]] [[declares that it has the task of defending the free press and strongly condemns all forms of threat and aggression against journalists or actions and statements which encourage others to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Werf, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Kathmann, Mr Palland, Mr Bikker and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u315	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalists often do not report, because they feel that nothing is being done with a report;]] [[calls on the government to establish a specialised police unit dealing with aggression and threats against journalists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas public campaigns can contribute to the prevention of aggression and violence against journalists;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct a public campaign against aggression and violence against journalists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalists do not always have the preferred position agreed in the Press Protocol;]] [[noting that not all public prosecutors and journalists' units are well informed of their declaration;]] [[noting that the declaration does not in all cases make use of the proper classification of aggression and violence cases against journalists;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that all these points are applied in the necessary manner before the end of the year, in all cases, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that journalists are increasingly involved in intimidation, violence and threats;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an annual investigation into aggression and threat to journalists, and to report to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that the undermining of journalism by Forum for Democracy and the PVV is on-Dutch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-222]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-223]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-224]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-225]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-226]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the directors for their reply. I have one motion and then a brief comment. First of all, the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Press hotline provides, inter alia, support for journalists against aggression and threats;]] [[Whereas publicists, scientists and other participants in the public debate are increasingly confronted with aggression and threat and that support is also desirable for this group;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, by analogy with Press Sacrifice, how to provide support to publicists, scientists and other participants in the public debate, and to submit proposals to the Chamber for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Palland and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mr. Chairman. I am thinking here, for example, of Mrs Lale Gül, who received enormous threats after she published a book. Then you're not a journalist, but you actually happen to the same type of threat that we discussed here today. I understand that the group is difficult to define, but I urge the government to investigate how security can be created for these people. Mr. Chairman. A great deal has passed through here today: many good words about the values of the rule of law and at the same time words that still shock me. I am shocked that it is in a free country that you can take things from the past out of context. I am very far from that, but I will always insist that we continue to speak with each other in this democracy if we do not agree. I hope that we can convince each other once in a while of how good it is that we live in a country where freedoms apply to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u318	Thank you. Then Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I said that I hoped that we would get beyond the filthy dung sometimes being poured out on journalists and then the indignation about it. I must say that the first deadline in its entirety did not necessarily give me a more positive vote. Even when it comes to the security of journalists and the protection of addresses, I am still not convinced of the speed with which this is being taken up. I myself had a motion in preparation, which was also about the Land Registry, but it seems to me, given the information we are still getting on the Land Registry and the motion by other colleagues, that it is not very useful to put forward a proposal on this matter. Let me end with something positive. I think it is good that the Minister says today that the cabinet intends to proceed with PressSafely, and that they do not have to worry about continuing funding. I really think that this kind of initiative is invaluable for people who are really in trouble. I would like to ask him to comment briefly on my second question as to whether some sort of consultant/sparring partner could also be present. That's what I asked for in the first term. It shouldn't be about whether to go to the police or not or how to deal with threats. The question must be: is this a threat; should I or should I not respond to this? I understood from the NVJ that there is still a need for this among a lot of journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u320	Thank you. Then Mrs. Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the Action Plan for European Democracy and the Digital Services Act are for negotiation in the Council of the European Union;]] [[Whereas the European Democracy Action Plan shows that freedom of the press, media pluralism and the fight against fake news are important elements for ensuring a democratic society and makes a number of proposals to that end;]] [[Whereas the European Commission envisages that the implementation of the proposals contained in the European Democracy Action Plan should take place before the beginning of 2023;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the Dutch commitment to the European Democracy Action Plan in the negotiations in the Council of the European Union, including at official level;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of its views on the Dutch implementation of the proposals contained in the Action Plan for European Democracy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kathmann, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-228]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u322	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has been failing the World Press Freedom Index for three years in a row and that there is a clear decline in the freedom of the press in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the European Commission, in its annual report on the rule of law of 20 July last, recommended the disclosure of media ownership structures, access to public sector information and threats to journalists as points of law in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas there are no golden solutions or quick fixes, but a healthy ecosystem and a strong rule of law are conditions for freedom of the press, which can only be guaranteed by a system approach, as shown by research carried out by the University of Amsterdam;]] [[calls on the Government to analyse the structural problems relating to freedom of the press and possible solutions to strengthen media freedom in the Netherlands and to forward them to the House of Representatives as soon as possible in the form of a letter of inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kathmann and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-229]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u323	Mr. Chairman. I always tell my kids, you can't do more than your best. But I don't think that kite goes on when we talk about our freedom of the press. We have to give at least 200 percent. I have that feeling entirely after Mr Van Meijeren's contribution from the Forum for Democracy. The Labour Party actually thinks it is time for a delta plan of freedom of the press in the Netherlands. I only realize one thing: now is not the time and place for this. That is why we have tabled a lot of motions with others. It is the time and place for breaking a lance for the idea that there should be no ceiling for thosezzp journalists who have to take security measures. On that point, I await the Minister's budget letter with a great deal of, well, perhaps pleasure, at least I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u324	Thank you. Then Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When people show you who they are, it's best to believe them the first time. If you don't, you open the door to escalation on escalation. We've seen another piece of it in this room today. A motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas journalists and the free press play a crucial role in our society and for democracy;]] [[Considering that eight out of ten journalists have now indicated that they are facing threats, aggression and violence;]] [[Whereas the emergence of right-wing extremism plays a major and growing role in causing and exacerbating it;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the role of right-wing extremism in the growing level of threat and to make the fight against it concrete in policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-230]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u327	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group. There isn't one. I call Mr Van Meijeren. Mr Van Meijeren is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Then I'll suspend for ten minutes. Oh, Mrs. Palland. I call Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u328	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has just expressed his disgust at my comments on the Second World War. He was wrong to say that I'm ignoring the crimes against the humanity of the Nazi regime. I feel compelled to contradict these false allegations. Indeed, as I have repeated on several occasions, the horrors that took place in the Second World War are far from comparable to the suffering that unvaccinated people are suffering today. However, in the run-up to the Second World War, parts of the population were considered "dangerous" and excluded from social life. With the same slippery path of legal inequality, discrimination and social exclusion being pursued, the alarm bells should start ringing on all sides. But as in the 1930s, it remains deafeningly silent. The Democracy Forum will always continue to oppose all policies leading to a state of apartheid in any form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u329	Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Palland from the CDA group. I'll suspend for three minutes after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u330	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the directors for their reply. I think we have had an important social debate with each other today. I had prepared a motion with Mrs Ellemeet to call on the cabinet to ensure and secure the continuity of the Press project, but the cabinet itself has already promised it in the first term, for which I thank you. That also means that I will not contribute to the entire flow of motions that we pour over us every time. I'm not going to make that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u331	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that the House's signal on the location addresses is clear, also in view of the previous motion we tabled on this issue. I commend the actions taken by the Secretary of State. I think it is right that we should take that information to our attention and that you should explain again what can be done, what we can do about it, also taking into account the response of the Personal Data Authority. I would like to conclude by repeating what Mr Brenninkmeijer said in the round table on threats to journalists: the most important bystander of journalism is society as a whole. The corrective and protective value of the bystander effect, that's us, and that's what we all have to count on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u333	Fine. That's great. Then I'll suspend for three minutes and then we'll listen to both regiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u334	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u335	Mr. Chairman. I'll do most of the motions. Two of them do colleague Keijzer. Maybe I've got another one, but I'll run into it myself. I'll get right on it, but I may have to get this or that printed out by the messengers; you'll want to forgive me. You're gonna be fine. Mrs Ellemeet's motion for a resolution 218: Judgement of the Chamber, with the understanding that I can see it so that this investigation is mirrored by the discussions that are now taking place on the Digital Services Act and on the European whole. Then that judgment is room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u336	That requires an interpretation from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u337	Yeah, he nodded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u338	Who nodded? Then we're out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u339	You said we'd make it quick. I'll skip the second motion. On Mrs Den Haan's motion to item No. 220 I would like to say in advance what I just said: lectures are also being given digitally and money has been made available for this. I will have to ask Mr Slob to give an appreciation in a note, because this is about his budget. That's coming up next Tuesday. The motion in part No. 221 is an expression of opinion, so I will, of course, abstain on that. The Van Baarle motion in part No. 222 on a specialized unit, I highly recommend. The situation is focused on everything relating to PressSafely, let me just say briefly, and then we have to use the expertise that the police already have in the field of detection and in the case of violence and threats etc. The motion in part No. 223 about a public campaign, I also advise against it. There are already public campaigns we're talking about. We also have that task force, where I would like to try to join. As far as the aid workers are concerned, I have said that I must see if I can somehow branch out the journalists into them. Mr Van Baarle's motion for a resolution 224 is the Court's opinion, to do everything in its power to have points of declaration and so on clear before the end of the year. The motion in part No. 225 calls on the Government to conduct and report annually on aggression against and threat to journalists. I could ask you to hold on to this until we have the WODC survey of the summer of 2022, because I am saying that the Minister of JenV wants to look at what we need to do and how, perhaps annually, we are going to conduct an investigation. I would therefore like to propose that this motion be held until about 21 June next year. Otherwise, I'd have to dissuade her, and I'd think it was a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u340	I do need to think about it, Mr. Chairman. There's a nice investigation now. I think it is important that we also look at how these figures develop over the longer term. There will indeed be a WODC investigation, but that will be another investigation. So I would like to ask the Minister how we can ensure that with the data we have now, over the long term, over several years, we look at how these percentages develop: how many journalists report, how many of them feel threatened and what are the consequences of that? That's actually what I'm asking for with that motion. So I am not asking for a very separate investigation, but for this to be repeated every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u341	Let me slow things down a little bit, also in the context of the Acts. Look, if that research at the WODC is there and we know a lot more about the people who do, who are they, what are the motives behind it and what are the patterns? In my view, then, the person in charge of that will indicate how we will proceed from there and how we will proceed from there to outline the annual picture. I assume that will be the Minister of JenV. I do not think that we should do so now, because I believe, in all honesty, that the design of this research is still rather limited. That is why I say hold the motion, because if you say 'well, I want it this way' next year, then we can put our money on it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u342	Let me then, in a fit of constructiveness, take up the motion and the Minister's offer to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u343	Mr President, then we need to record that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u344	Forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u345	The motion in part No. 226 by Mr Van Baarle is a speech-expression. So I'm gonna leave it for what it is. Then the motion to part No. 227 by Mrs Bikker c.s. I'm sorry, but I have to advise against it. Look, with the journalists, we have said very clearly on many points: we have a clear picture of them. We also have a number of special arrangements for this. By the way, by analogy with the proposal on source protection, publicists could well already be covered. So you don't even have to do anything special for that. I do think that, if we extend it at some point, it will become a very difficult whole for the authorities that are working on it. I shall come back to this again: I think that we should first look at what the WODC research says about why this has increased so hugely in recent years. Well, "great" might be a little too much, but it has increased a lot. I'm going to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u346	Mrs Bikker on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u347	The Minister's argument is almost that it fits well, also because the WODC research will reveal a whole section. Well, this motion calls for investigations. I specifically asked for it so that for publicists, for such people, it is very clear where they can go. I am thinking, for example, of the situation of a publicist such as Lale Gül. So I am not asking the Minister to raise all kinds of horns and bells or to involve all kinds of indefinable groups. However, I would ask him to look at it very specifically for a small group of publicists and other vulnerable participants in the debate, just to see if there is a need for one, two, and, if so, if that is possible. It is therefore a rather simple request, which the Minister can use to promote public debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u348	I'm gonna stay off the hook. Three years ago, when we started working with PressSafely, we said to each other: we believe that this profession, journalism, should have very clear and not only visible protection as far as we are concerned, but we should also be a visible support point for them. This is without prejudice to the fact that any citizen who feels threatened, by publications or otherwise, must, of course, have an open mind with the police or other authorities, so to speak, to be able to put up with his story. I think that's what's happening in general. I'd really like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u349	Fine. Then the motion to part No. 228.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u350	Yeah, the motion to part No. 228, on the letter of inquiry on the Dutch implementation of the proposals contained in the Action Plan for European Democracy. I'm just thinking, but that's just outside my policy area. I'll take a look at Mrs. Koekkoek. I have to figure out which colleague will appreciate this in the next few days, because it is a little over my head, I fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u351	Do we get it for Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u352	The cabinet makes for an appreciation. Then there is the question from the motion in part No. 229 on the analysis of structural problems relating to freedom of the press. I must also refer this to BZK's colleague, who deals with fundamental rights, and to BVOM's colleague. Then there will be an appreciation from them. Then the motion to part No. 230 by Mrs Simons. I must advise against it, but not to say that it must have been in the opening of my first term, because I do not think that we should have full attention to all phenomena with an extremist impact. That is also part of the point I made: we must not be ambiguous. So we shouldn't just give protection to what's coming down our alley, or I don't know what. I would like to underline that. The problem is that we have outsourced the role of extremist groups to the experts, such as the services, the NCTV and so on. So the government can't make a ruling on that. That would not be quite what it should be like in the state of law. The fight against extremism by all democratic means is, of course, something that we, Parliament and government, must work together on. So I have to discourage the motion and I will have to continue to do so, but I sympathise with the considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u353	Thank you for this appreciation. Of course, it could never be my intention to tempt the Minister to do something which is not constitutional, but I can imagine that the findings made by the services in which this mission lies will be taken into account in policies that hopefully lead to not only a good analysis but also to the reduction of the violence we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u354	Mr President, allow me to make an attempt at compensation. I have been talking about sending out a letter in advance on the occasion of my budget. I suggest I put a separate letter in the same envelope. By which I mean that letter comes at the same time. I shall go into this matter in more detail. I will go into those recitals, including: eight out of ten journalists indicate that they are threatened. I will then go into the analysis of the role of extremists in society. I think that is what you are always hearing me say: 'We must not be ambiguous and then we must try all the extremist forms.' I hope that's a concession. I am looking at Mrs Simons: can she do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u355	I do not know if it is Mr Van Baarle, who has set the tone for temporary coulance and constructiveness, but I am extremely pleased with this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u356	He inspired me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u357	Yeah, but now what? What are we gonna do about the motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u358	Everyone understands, except you, I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u359	Explain it to me. Has she been dissuaded now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u360	I didn't recommend the motion. However, I have made a concession, which I believe is well-defined in the Acts, namely that I will come forward with a letter in good time before the budget in which I address separately the point that I have just described, but which does not seem to me any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u361	Fine. Would you like to add something to that, Mrs Simons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u362	Mr President, I wonder if I should withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u363	That's entirely up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u364	I'll move her in. Then I'll wait for the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u365	Mr President, we end my second term very nicely after an afternoon that may have had some other moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u366	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For me, there is one motion and one question from the first term. That was the question of how to read the part of the opinion of the AP on the protection of addresses in the event of threats. In its opinion, the AP refers to a preliminary opinion of the CBb, the Board of Appeal for Industry. In that case, the judge instructs the Chamber of Commerce to protect the location address for the duration of the proceedings in a specific case. In doing so, the court wrongly refers to the basis for the protection of residence addresses. The procedure has been terminated and the address has been protected by the Chamber of Commerce in this particular case. In this particular case, it is therefore protected in the context of proceedings before the courts. In other situations, such a location address in case of a concrete threat is protected on the basis of a principle of good governance. I have spoken with Mr Kwint about what you are doing in the situation thatzzp'ers are going to have to limit myself to that. It is uncomfortable. For that, you will have to argue when. The Trade Register Act does not in itself provide a basis for the protection of business addresses, not in general, nor in the event of a threat. This is done by the Chamber of Commerce on the basis of a principle of good administration. But this debate already shows how quickly you can get into a confusion of speech with each other, leaving aside the consequences of the standard shielding of all residence addresses. That brings me to the judgment on the motion for a resolution on item No. 219. I read it. The content is not new. You also refer in the motion to the Yeşilgöz-Zegerius motion, I say to Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Michon, who sign the motion. But I'd like to ask you to hold the motion. I have just indicated that I will give you the outcome of the consultation on this subject in two months' time. Then, of course, it is entirely up to you to say, taking into account everything, including the discussion we have just had on the protection of location addresses in the event of a specific threat, and that is how we want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u368	Clear. The request is to withdraw the motion, pardon: to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u369	I'm not going over the motion, but I have one more question. You indicated that there was talk of confusion or at least confusion in this discussion. Then I want to know: isn't it true what the letter from the AP says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u370	In its opinion, the AP refers to a preliminary judgment of the CBb, in which the judge instructs the Chamber of Commerce to protect the establishment address. In doing so, the court wrongly refers to the basis for the protection of residence addresses. That's what the AP took into account in the opinion. This only indicates how complicated this is, which is completely separate from the occasion of this debate and the problems that arise in concrete situations forzzp'ers in general and for journalists in particular. I see that, I know that. The only thing I am asking Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Michon is to keep the motion on, so that you can finally weigh with all the information from the consultation what the Chamber wants me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u371	There are now two things that go together: Mrs van der Werf's question and the request for the motion to be held. Let us first give Mrs van der Werf the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u372	I find it difficult for Mrs Keijzer to say that what this debate is about is not on that basis. I don't think so. What the debate is about, in my view, was Mr Kwint's point of view, which is as follows. Once you've gotten a molotov cocktail through your front door, what good is it for you to protect your address afterwards? If the judge in specific cases says it's okay, don't you just have the space to interpret it that way? What's in the AP's letter, isn't it just right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u373	Mr President, we are repeating ourselves. So you end up in a discussion where there's an expectation of threat and you're shielding from it. But the Chamber of Commerce is a public body and it must be able to reach a judgment on the basis of arguments. There isn't now. Where there is a concrete threat, the way in which the UBO registrations are handled is acted. But there must also be a real threat. That is because of the importance behind the Trade Register. So I see. I understand what you're saying. My position here is to indicate the consequences of what you're asking me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u374	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u375	I think this is exactly the crux. The Secretary of State states: because of the importance of the Trade Register it cannot be done. And so actually, because the Trade Register benefits from being able to store that data, we cannot prevent that. You just mentioned an example. Meantime, I can do it right away. Of course, there is also an interest that basic registration of people is in order. Then why can you indicate when you go to another municipality or when you register: I can change the address? And because of the importance of the Chamber of Commerce, it cannot be done here. That's really weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u376	Mrs Van der Werf makes these quotes when she says "the importance of the Trade Register." That's what's important to all of us. If you have a conflict with an entrepreneur, whether you're that entrepreneur or that you're private, you need to know where you need to be to get justice. That's one of the things behind registering business addresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u377	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u378	And in the end, it's up to you to settle that. It's in the Trade Register Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u379	Fine. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on her motion. Oh, the microphone's not on. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u380	I heard you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u381	We're not holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u382	Then I would advise against the motion, Mr President, with everything I have said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u383	That seems pretty clear to me. I would like to thank both directors for their presence. Mrs. Palland still? Very briefly, because I really want to go to dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u384	I get that. I like to think in solutions. This really requires a separate debate. We can talk about this at length, but the threat is already, of course, concrete. I believe that I have also heard the Secretary of State say that if that has to be changed for the time being, and there will be another letter and information, etc., the address of the NVJ could also be that of the establishment. Did I get that correctly? Isn't that a practical hand-out to at least repeat it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u385	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-8.u386	Fine. Thank you once again to both directors for their presence today. I'm gonna suspend 45 minutes to 7:45, and then we're gonna talk about ethnic profiling. We'll continue at 7:45.
