ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is VAO Cybersecurity. If people want to chat nicely, we have a member's restaurant for that. There are four participants in this debate, two of whom are going to say something. The first is Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD group. Like everyone else, she has two minutes' speaking time. I have failed to extend a warm welcome to the Minister. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I asked for this debate a few months ago, there was a lot of topicality on this dossier. In the meantime, these current events have been overtaken by other things. Today I read a newspaper report from the police. Crime has been reduced, but online crime has increased enormously. The subject remains topical. I have a motion that fits in with the debate a few months ago and which I would like to table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of organisations and institutions affected by cyber attacks has increased significantly;]] [[noting that data of 35,000 inhabitants of the municipality of Hof van Twente were recently taken from a ransomware attack and that there was no clear scope for action to respond adequately;]] [[Whereas municipalities carry out crucial tasks for their residents and that the temporary non-use of data or loss of data may have an unacceptable impact;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the VNG and the Information Security Service, to draw up a cyber-defense protocol so that municipalities have a clear framework for action in the case of ransomware, dpos attacks and other disruptive cyber attacks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-753]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have chosen to really focus on the municipalities, the local authorities, because we have seen a lot of misery there, for example at Hof van Twente, where the data of the inhabitants were held hostage. We have seen that local authorities all react in a different way. I hope that, with the support of my colleagues, I will be able to create a clear legal framework for the municipalities so that the data of the inhabitants are better protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	Clear. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Palland from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr President. It is nice to be here in new composition on a new terrain for me. Recently, the report of the Cyber Security Council showed once again the importance of having strong digital security and that we still have a great deal of work to do. More and more companies, but also municipalities, Mrs Yeşilgöz has already mentioned the victim of ransomware attacks, often causing considerable damage. On the occasion of the AO in which my predecessor Mr Van Dam spoke, I have two points I would like to follow up on. We have now taken note of the Minister's letter of 3 February, for which we thanked, but on two points we did not see any follow-up to the relevant issues which were also discussed in the AA. First of all, I would like to mention border control systems. Following the Court of Auditors' report, we asked in the AA whether it would be wise in the long term to transfer the border control system to a private company, the Schiphol Group. The Minister would come back to that in a letter, but we have not yet seen it. Is he going to inform us further about this, partly in view of our concerns? The second point is the cyberweather report. The CDA has made the suggestion to create a kind of cyberweather message, a periodic news report on the current threat picture and the action perspectives aimed at citizens who can prepare themselves for it, but also at companies, so that they can be alert. The Cyber Security Council comes up with a similar thing under the name of the cybercrime monitor. The minister seemed willing to look at this in the AO. Can he indicate whether we can expect a concrete follow-up to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. Can the Minister answer or do I have to suspend for a minute? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Cybersecurity is not the subject that everyone in society is going for, I honestly admit. But our dependence on the digital world is such that it should be at the top of the senses for everyone. That is why it is a good thing that Mrs Yeşilgöz, with her motion and the explanatory statement, is calling for two things to be addressed here. She calls for attention to be paid to the subject itself, but she also calls for attention to be paid to awareness and wants us to get to work on it. For the past three and a half years, I have noticed that awareness is being increased every time. Sometimes this happens due to painful incidents, such as the problems that occurred around Citrix last January. Then there is that awareness for a while, but it soon threatens to sink away again, because the digital world is kind of self-evident. That is why it is good to look at the protocols that are being suggested here, to have the roadmaps that need to be followed over and over again. I'd be happy to give the motion a ruling, Chamber. I would also like to say that the Secretary of State at BZK is already working closely with the VNG and the Information Security Service on this subject. I would also like to mention here that, together with the VNG and the Institute of Security and Crisis Management, with funding from the Ministry, at the beginning of last year, three cyber-practice packages were developed that focus on ransomware. Because really, this has to be implanted very much between the ears with every driver in the coming years. So I'm giving the motion judgment room. Then there were two questions from the CDA Group about these border control systems. I will return to that as soon as possible. It is quite right for Mrs Palland to bring forward the cyberweather report again. There is a pilot with such a weather report set up via safeinternet.nl. The first cyberweather message has been released. The pilot runs until May. Once it has been completed, the NCTV will work together with the National Cyber Security Centre and, among other things, the Ministry of EZK to see if further details are useful and, if so, in what form. You will be informed about this in the progress report of the Dutch Cybersecurity Agenda. He'll be here for the summer. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you to the Minister for his presence. On Tuesday we shall vote on the motion. After the suspension, we're going to talk about road safety.
