ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u1	We are going to end this parliamentary day with the VSO Rail, rail safety and ERTMS, Office 32404, No. 104. We have three speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Geurts, on behalf of the CDA Group. Like everyone else, he has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u2	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I still have a few questions. During the written consultation, we, as the CDA group, called for attention to be paid to the ammonia transports by rail. Especially in the municipality of Venlo these trains cause great concern because they run through urban areas. In its reply, the Secretary of State stated that because of these concerns and the motion adopted by member Laçin of the SP Group, she would involve all interested parties, including the province of Limburg and the municipality of Venlo, in the development of the robust Basic Network. We've been three months. The question I have: can the Secretary of State give an update on the developments of the robust Base Network and how the stakeholders become active in this process or are involved? Then there is my second point. The CDA is curious about the talks between the Ministry and OCI. That is a Dutch chemical company, I say for those who do not know about the future of the covenant phasing out ammonia transports. Can the Secretary of State state state what its commitment is and whether a further reduction in the transport of ammonia by OCI is possible? My last point, Mr President, is that the Secretary of State will not even surprise me about the Meuse line. This is in response to the letter about the Meuse Line. I would very much like the Secretary of State's undertaking that the talks and so on will not delay the implementation of the Maasline project. The letter we received on 17 December 2020 does not say that very clearly. I would like a sharp response from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u3	Asked for a sharp response. I call Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union Group. He's already the last speaker of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I have brought one motion, which I will table with Mr Boulakjar. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for one and the same rail construction project, provided the conditions are met, both the RRF (Recovery and Resilience Facility) and the CEF (Connecting Europe Facility) can be used;]] [[Whereas the Development Agenda for the Future presents many pathways and projects, but does not include financial coverage;]] [[whereas the Netherlands did not participate in the first tranche of the RRF;]] [[Whereas an investment in rail is in line with the objectives of the RRF and the CEF to invest in a sustainable future;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and inform the Court of Justice of any railway construction projects that might be eligible for recourse to (the second tranche of) the RRF and the CEF,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Boulakjar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32404-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u5	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Geurts asked a number of questions. The first question was about Basenet and an update on what has happened over the past three months. I've been working on Basenet for the past three years. So, unfortunately, that's a puzzle that's complex to solve. The progress of this can't always be written in a letter from month to month, for example. We do realize that this is a really complex puzzle that we really have to put in a very constructive atmosphere with all parties. So that is the atmosphere in which we talk: not only with governments, but also with shippers and carriers involved. We are really trying to make both our ambitions for rail freight transport and our ambitions for housing and safety, which of course we also have with each other, a suitable puzzle. The Court will be informed again in June of the progress of the proceedings. Then the conversations with OCI. Of course, there is also a link to Basenet. We are indeed talking to the covenant parties, these are OCI and the province of Limburg, about the evaluation of what has been achieved so far and what are then the necessary steps for the future. Those conversations started this spring. They're going well. We hope that the evaluation will be completed shortly after the summer and that we will be able to inform you further about the state of play and the arrangements. This is also of course a puzzle, because ammonia is another substance that is important for the sustainable energy transition. So this is also about a puzzle that we have to put together. But after the summer you will be informed about the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. Then the Meuse Line. No delay: that is of course also my commitment. But unfortunately, I can't take care of it alone. For example, the lack of a deputy is already a certain handicap at the moment. Of course, as soon as the government is back on full power, I'll go quickly with the delegates around the table. Also this is a puzzle we have to put together. I will, of course, also try to avoid delays on my part. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 106 by Mr Grinwis asks to look at both the CEF and the RRF. I fully share his ambition to see if there are any resources for our much-needed rail investments. We keep a list of the CEF. I can indeed give an overview of the projects we are thinking of for the committee debate on Spoor. That's a little harder for the RRF. This is coordinated by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZK. Whether it is appropriate therefore also depends on the criteria they apply. Mr Grinwis must therefore wait for the letter from the Finance Ministers and EZK. Since they are both combined in this motion, I would like to say that the motion is still on. I will give you at least that overview of the CEF for the committee debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u7	That is a question for Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u8	Otherwise, I have to discourage the motion now, because I can't provide for part of it. But in part, I can, so that's why I'm trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u9	Thank you. I'm picking up that glove. As far as I'm concerned, we're holding the motion. I'll wait for the review. I am also very much looking forward to the letter from the ministers of EZK and Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u10	Then we found each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u11	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u12	Thank you to the Secretary of State for her contribution today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-tweedekamer-37.u13	On Thursday we will vote on all motions. I shall close the sitting of 20 April 2021. Get home.
