ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is a debate on a collective law of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. He, like many of us, sometimes had a problem with facial recognition. That still doesn't work optimally. They're working on it. But we did it. He's inside. We are about to begin with the first term of office for which seven members have registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the collecting law today, and there's a lot of stuff in there. As stated in the explanatory statement, this is a small policy. But small policies can also have a major impact on people, so we will highlight a number of things. I'll start with the debts. Thanks to Peters and Bruins' amendment, it is finally settled that people who are in debt due to a fault with the obligation of information in municipalities, the SVB or the UWV can still get final discharge and debt relief. That may be small policy for here, but for the people about who this is about means the difference between a lot of stress and rest. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to actively approach the municipalities, because I also get signals that some municipalities do not even really know about this. So would the Secretary of State like to actively point this out to the municipalities? This is really very important to the people about who this is about. Then there is another point, Mr President. That's about filing for debt relief. Then there's a BKR registration. There are some concerns about that, too. On the one hand, it is not surprising that you are registered with the BKR if you are in debt, but that happens with all types and sizes of debt relief. You can also talk about early care or aftercare. Then such a BKR registration, especially if it takes a long time, can be quite tricky. Can the Secretary of State do anything to fix that? I know he's not about BKR. That's a separate foundation, but it would be a good thing if we could make arrangements with BKR, for example by making BKR registrations valid for only six months instead of letting them last forever. 'Cause that might get people in trouble too. Then there's the UWV daily salary decision. There's an incredible amount of fuss about that. The UWV is again in the news. I've asked questions about this before. We had the debate on this, I tabled a motion on it, and the Ministry was going to see what we could do about it in the summer. So far, however, we have not heard from the Ministry, while many people have to deal with this every day and they have an unfairly low benefit. On top of that, it is not desirable for the case-law, because they also want clarity. When will the Secretary of State come up with a solution for all these people who run into the disadvantages of the daily wage decision? Furthermore, we have had a good conversation here in the Chamber with the implementing agencies UWV and SVB. We are going to continue this discussion about the bottlenecks, which they also encounter. The whole Chamber is eager to tackle this, but we are also running into laws and regulations. Is the Secretary of State prepared to propose solutions to all these problems with their advantages and disadvantages? In this way, as a Chamber, we can also decide what changes we want to make in the end. Then I come to the individual study allowance. For students with disabilities it is now very difficult to get around when they study. Therefore, an individual study allowance is very important for them to get around. But this amount varies from one municipality to another. This creates unfair uncertainty for students but also for municipalities. Now Mr Raemakers has once tabled a motion to regulate this nationwide. That is very nice and we agree as a whole Chamber. So it would be fine to include that in this collecting bill. That is why there is also an amendment by Mrs Maatoug and I, which is now ready to deal with this at national level. We're hoping for a positive verdict from the Secretary of State. Finally, Mr President, I come to pensions. Many people are rightly concerned about pensions that do not want to be paid with prices. Pensions have not been indexed for some 13 years. Then you could say: what does that have to do with the collecting law, because it is about small policy? I have tabled an amendment to this collectible law, because I believe that the agreement made under the pension agreement, which, as of 1 January 2022, will allow the funds that are in good shape to be indexed, will be a kind of foretaste and a precursor to a new system, which we are going to talk about here in the Chamber. Due to delays in the ministry, this will not happen. If it's up to us, it's gonna happen. That's unusual, unusual. I'm aware of that. That is why I have tabled an amendment to allow the funds that can do so to start indexing from 1 January. I would also like the State Secretary's opinion on this. This concerns a lot of people, who are quite right to be angry that this indexing is lagging behind every year, while pension funds are currently doing quite well. These people finally want to see the index they're so looking forward to. I support them in this and we have made good agreements in the pension agreement. So I'd like the cabinet to keep those appointments. Hence the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr De Jong has an interruption about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u5	The PVV fully agrees that there is a need to index quickly, as this has not been the case for 13 years. That's a huge purchasing power decline. That must be done. But Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party is in favour of the pension agreement and the new pension system. Instead of tackling the current pension system, he wants a new pension system, but this also assumes that it can be reduced more quickly. Is this amendment based on the new system and does it therefore also assume that it will be possible to shorten it more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u6	A good question from Mr De Jong. No, this is purely and simply about reducing the indexing option from 110, as currently stated in the Pension Act, to 105. We already know the reduced coverage rate of 90, so pension funds have not had to cut back in recent years. That also has to do with the slack you get in that new system. We are going to talk about this whole new system, but if we have an agreement that this indexation should be made possible sooner and more easily, I also think that we should keep that agreement, because a lot of people are hungry about it. Perhaps we do not agree on a possible new contract, but I think we agree that this indexing really needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u7	Yeah, but I'm worried. I would ask you once again, because the amendment talks about the new system. The new system assumes you can cut faster. That is why we are not in favour of this. We say: just adjust the interest rate and make sure that pension funds no longer have to charge poor. I am counting on the Labour Party to agree that it should not be possible to cut down faster, but its signature is covered by the pension agreement. Is this amendment based on the new system, which is a new system, in fact in the form of a new system, and thus in the future of being able to shorten it more quickly? If it isn't, it would be great, but it's based on the new system. Is that right, yes or no? Because then it is a completely different story for the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u8	I understand the question very well. There's some things going on. The difficulty is that we do not know the new system. We both don't know that. I've seen a consultative law a year ago, but I don't know what kind of law we're going to see in the Lower House. I think we are going to talk about this in the coming year and perhaps in the coming years. Then we will also talk about the degree of indexation and shortening. It is true what Mr De Jong says: the idea of the new system is that you store less money and that you also make it less interest-sensitive, allowing you to distribute faster, but if things get worse it will also take the pain faster and cut faster. But I don't know exactly how that goes, because I don't know the whole law. What I do know is that, in the meantime, from 1 January 2022 onwards, when we talk about a new pension contract, these are the parties who have supported the pension agreement, which allow us, when we talk about a new pension contract here in the Chamber, to index more quickly the funds that are now in good shape. Only that part I take out, because I know it. That is what the letter I believe was sent to the Chamber in January. So I'm gonna get that part out. We are going to see the degree of indexation and shortening in that new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u9	Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u10	I hope that the Secretary of State has also heard this, because any proposal that makes it possible to index faster can, of course, count on support. But it cannot be that this amendment will make it possible to cut down faster; that is why I would also like to have the opinion of the Secretary of State. If so, no support, but I would also like to see it supported by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u11	Good. I would just like to say that this is about the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mrs Maatoug. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thanks, also to the support, which cleans everything up so neatly so that we can debate here safely. It has just been said, Mr President, that we are talking today about a collectible law. This is a law that regulates all kinds of small and sometimes very technical things. But we have learned in recent years, and also in recent weeks, that small, technical things can make a huge difference for individuals, in a positive but sometimes negative sense. I want to talk today about a few technical things that I think can make a huge difference in people's lives. And I think that's what we should want with each other. I'll start with the execution in general. Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA mentioned this earlier. The fact that things can get really tight between law and execution was well seen in the round table conversation we had with UWV, SVB and several client councils. That was a nice talk. And from that conversation it emerged quite clearly that sometimes a law can make a lot of sense when we treat it here, but in practice, in the execution, it can work out dramatically. In that pleasant conversation I was also very pleased with the bottlenecks letters we received from various organisations. They went by the points where the laws and regulations we have made here cause problems. With these specific bottlenecks and suggestions, we can actually get to work in this way. My question to the Secretary of State is, therefore, whether he is prepared to deal with these bottlenecks and to inform the Court of Auditors before the budgetary procedure of the directions for resolving them and their advantages and disadvantages, so that we can work well on that list. Then I have a number of specific suggestions, which I would like to make separately. The first concerns the shortage of insurance doctors and the re-evaluations. Work is under way to reduce the shortage of insurance doctors, but waiting times for social-medical assessments continue to increase. And they were a long time ago. In that good conversation I referred to, the UWV also indicated that this causes a lot of stress on the work floor for the clients, but also for the employees of the UWV itself. They are no longer able to explain this well and therefore experience a high workload. But they have also provided something very concrete, namely something that can reduce the workload from tomorrow and from tomorrow can help with the problem of social-medical assessments, and that is no longer doing re-evaluations in the age group over 60. I think that is a very good suggestion, and my question to the Secretary of State is: are you prepared to accept this suggestion? Because why would we put aside such a good solution? Then there's a point about data sharing. With this law, the UWV is given a wider opportunity to share client data in certain cases, so that assistance can be used when needed. In the explanatory statement, the cabinet only talks about vulnerable groups in the WIA and the Wajong and about people with low capacity, but does the Secretary of State agree with me that problems can arise for everyone, regardless of what benefit you have? Can the UWV with this law in theory help anyone who needs it? Or should we have to change the law for that? In addition, if there are debts, it may also be useful in certain cases to pass on contact details not only to the municipalities, but also information on the amount of the claim. Municipalities can then better assess whether something is a priority. Does the Secretary of State share that? Then, like my colleague from the Labour Party, I have a point about debts. A while ago, a very good amendment was adopted by my colleagues from CDA and Christian Union, which provides for municipalities, UWV and SVB to participate in a debt settlement against final discharge if there is no demonstrable intent or gross debt. This means that people no longer have to pay an outstanding debt after a three-year debt settlement. However, there are still quite a few people who have not been able to benefit from this change of law, and therefore still have an outstanding debt at the moment. My question to the Secretary of State is: can we not also forgive the debts of these people, in the spirit of the current legislation? Then, Mr President, I have another question about the child-related budget. This law provides that families are entitled to a child-related budget even if only one of the parents has a residence permit. It is good that this is now finally settled after several signals from among others the Children's Ombudsman about this. But do we now read the legislation correctly, namely that there is no right to a child-related budget if one or both parents have a residence permit, but not the child itself? Why was that chosen? How many kids are we talking about? Finally. A collectible law is also there to regulate things that are not very politically discussed. One of the things that needs to be regulated with regard to GroenLinks is the individual study bonus. I actually hope that there will be a broad consensus on this, but because the bill has been declared controversial in the broad offensive, that remains to be done. We think this is a shame, and that is why my colleague Mr Van Dijk and I have tabled an amendment to that effect. We hope for broad support from colleagues and a positive opinion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you for your input. I do not see the third speaker in the Chamber now. The next item is Mr Stoffer, who will speak on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. The Collective Social Affairs and Employment Act 2022 is in front of us. As has already been said, this collectible law has a wide range of subjects. That means, of course, that I cannot go into all the points of the law. You will not blame me for that either, because it takes far too much time. But I'd like to say a few things about that law. Firstly, it is good that it will be easier for employers to apply for the no-risk policy to help people with disabilities to work. It is also good that there should be room for those who have not deliberately forsaken the duty of intelligence so that they can start a friendly debt settlement. But, Mr. President, you understand that I'm not standing here just to compliment you. I wouldn't have joined in. I also have a few critical notes to crack, first of all about the WIA advances. The UWV decided in August that sick people who wait after months were not entitled to a WIA benefit, did not have to pay back their advance. That's right, because these people couldn't do much about it that they weren't judged on time. So this is only logical and just, you would say. The SGP has therefore urged the Cabinet to make every effort to resolve the shortage of UWV doctors as quickly as possible. But what is our surprise in reading the first letter of amendment to this law? The cabinet now wants to burden employers with the consequences of this deficit. The amendment regulates that WGA advances granted by the UWV to employees can be recovered from own risk-bearing employers. Mr. Chairman. What's the situation? It's good to clarify this a little bit. The UWV provides an advance prior to the final decision on the WIA benefit at the time when the UWV cannot decide on the WIA application in time, because of course we do not want this person to lose income. As there are too few doctors at the UWV, it may take a very long time to assess whether the employee is actually entitled to a WIA benefit. At the time when the decision is taken and it appears that the employee was not entitled to it, the advances received will be recovered from the employer. That's where my problem lies, because employers are going to suffer from waiting lists at the UWV. We see that there are a number of lawsuits going on for a reason. In a recent court procedure in Limburg, the judge ruled that the UWV had no claim to recover WIA advances that strengthened the UWV to employees. The reason is very logical: the UWV itself was late in assessing the application of those workers. Anyway, the UWV has appealed. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State on this matter. Is it true that the UWV at the moment, in the course of these procedures, simply continues to recover advances? Quite specifically, what does the Secretary of State think about this? Wouldn't it be better to wait for the judge's ruling first? And very specific to both questions: will the Secretary of State address the UWV? Since the WGA benefit is an invalidity benefit which is passed on to an employer for the first ten years, it can go well into the papers. In my opinion, therefore, this is a highly controversial and complex issue and not something that I believe you can regulate by means of a collective law. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Why does he choose to include this part in this bill by means of a letter of amendment? Doesn't he think it makes more sense that we should have a careful legislative process on this, including the Council of State and others who can speak with wisdom about this change? But since this point has been included in the letter of amendment, the Council of State has not considered it. Finally, Mr President. Isn't it much better that the Secretary of State is now fully committed to resolving the waiting lists at the UWV rather than dealing with symptom control and ultimately giving employers the financial consequences? Surely a VVD Secretary of State shouldn't want that? I'm curious to hear the answer. I have one other point. I would like to make a point about the no-risk sickness benefit. Through this law, the State Secretary wants to ensure that it is no longer possible for employers to avail themselves of the no-risk sickness benefit when it has been claimed too late. Only, the problem is that employers do not know in good time that this worker is a so-called 'no-risker'. In the case of a no-risker, an employer in the event of illness does not have to pay the sickness benefit, but the UWV does. If the employer finds out too late that his employee has a no-risk status, he can now declare a ZW benefit to the UWV. Under this collective law, the cabinet wants to arrange for sickness benefits to be claimed and paid in good time, within three years of the first day of sickness. Otherwise, this can no longer be invoked. In that case, the employer must pay for the payment of the worker himself, while the right to benefit is at stake. This allows employers up to 12 years of age to hear well: up to 12 years of age to be disadvantaged. This, too, can generate a substantial cost. You can find all kinds of things, but in the end the goal of this no-risk status is precisely to eliminate the risk of illness among employers, so that people with disabilities or illness can be recruited more easily? I think if you're not careful, you're going to achieve the opposite when you let this go on. I have the same question as before: should we want to deal with this by means of a collectible law? This policy change certainly does not seem to meet the criteria for this. As a Chamber, I think we should be able to weigh this change carefully. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this. Is it true that at UWV it is simply insightful who is entitled to sickness benefit, and if so, why is it now the starting point for claiming sickness benefit in good time, while the right to benefit should be leading? And how does the cabinet's proposal relate to the objective of no-risk status, namely to helping more sick and disabled people to work? I would very much like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at these two points and whether he is prepared to withdraw these specific elements of the law. I hope he is prepared to do so, but I have tabled an amendment to be sure. But if the Secretary of State takes a favourable view of my proposal, I can only imagine that he would do so. I will, of course, withdraw that amendment. Actually, I'd like that the best route. Finally, Mr President. It is important that we stand as a cabinet and chamber for a careful legislative process. After all, that is one of the lessons of the supplementing affair and the temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations. That is why I am asking these critical questions. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how he looks back on this legislative process. Colleagues have already said a few things about this. There is a collectible law in place with a number of sent letters of amendment which contain a lot of legislative changes. This time it's not about just moving a few points or commas or renumbering the laws. Because then it would make a lot of sense. It appears that there have been controversial changes in substance over time. I understand that, too, but I think we need to take a little bit of a break right now. In my view, the agreement is that collective laws do not include politically controversial proposals or things that require careful consideration. In doing so, the Council of State, the main consultative body of the government, I would like to mention once again that it has not considered the letters of amendment. I'm saying it very emphatically. I ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect on this, because I do not think that this is the way in which we should want to implement a proper and orderly legislative process. I have every hope that the Secretary of State will look at, assess and appoint this kindly. Finally, how are we going to ensure that we prevent this in the future? I'll leave it at that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you very much. The amendment referred to by Mr Stoffer has now received number 15. The amendment has been distributed and is therefore also available to Members. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mr De Jong, who will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr President, thank you very much. Today we are discussing the Collecting Act SZW 2022. Normally these are minor technical changes, clarifications. It should not, as the Council of State points out, contain a policy that could lead to a political debate on one of the elements. It's supposed to be politically poor. Everyone agrees on that. However, this cabinet has gone further on parts than usual. It has now been largely resolved, but only after the Council of State and after the written round. How is that possible? Why is the cabinet trying to regulate far-reaching things through a collectible law? This cabinet has not provided a good basis. I'm still asking for that. I ask for a clear answer that this is not going to happen again. Then the contents. I want to get three things out of it. This cabinet wants to remove the nationality requirements in the AOW. The cabinet says: "The government considers that making a distinction by nationality in 2021 is no longer easy to explain and therefore considers it undesirable to use the distinction'. Why can't you explain that anymore? The AOW was introduced in 1957 with the idea that Dutch people would receive a good retirement provision. There is nothing wrong with applying a principle of nationality and thus saying: in order to be able to use a scheme, you must be Dutch. It's a matter of principle where you define social security. Nor does that have anything to do with discrimination, no matter what international provisions say. That has to do with common sense. We therefore call for these requirements not to be deleted. Then there is the fact that changes can now help people with problematic debts more quickly. These are people who have inadvertently gotten into trouble. The PVV is in favour of this, especially if you look at what has been done to the people affected by the premium affair and innocently destroyed, by the Tax Office and our government, and how they are more and more in debt because they were simply not helped. That must never happen again. That is why we support this change. However, I would like to stress that when people have committed deliberate or really culpable fraud, they should not be able to get away with fraud. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? Then there's pensions. The Labour Party has chosen to table an amendment to this collective law to enable the call for indexation. We support this call. However, the PVV goes beyond the Labour Party. Unlike the Labour Party, we do not rely on the new system. This system will also make it possible to cut down faster. That's unacceptable. We believe that after 13 years of standstill and 25% loss of purchasing power, we should finally be indexed. This can also be done in the current system. To do so, we need to bring the calculation rate to a more real accounting rate, so that pension funds with almost EUR 2 000 billion in cash do not need to be charged unnecessarily poor. I would like a commitment on this point. As far as the amendment is concerned, it really must not lead to people being cut down unnecessarily and more quickly. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to take a good look at the substance of that amendment and remove it, should that be the case. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you for your input. Mr Van Dijk has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u20	Yeah, it's about the new system. Perhaps Mr De Jong and I disagree, but we do not really know that yet, because we are going to see this whole new system somewhere next year, if it is right. Our commitment is also a faster indexing perspective and less interest rate sensitive. I therefore hope that we will be able to see whether this new system is better than what we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u21	Now the Labour Party is doing it again, now Gijs van Dijk is doing it again. I just didn't respond to it, but I'm gonna do it now. Gijs van Dijk now pretends not to know what's in that new law, as if he really has no idea what the consequences of the new system are. This while he himself, at least the Labour Party, and the FNV on that new system, when there were proposals about it a few years ago, said: that is a casino pension and that makes it more dependent on the stock exchange and that it can be cut harder. And now the Labour Party suddenly says: I don't know if there will be any faster cuts. Of course, that's very clever, because you get through in the media and you can have your pieces, so no one's talking about what it's really about anymore. So Mr. Gijs van Dijk doesn't really have a clue what he signed his signature on. That can't be true, can it? So I don't believe it at all. It's just sand in people's eyes. We can find each other when it comes to indexing faster. We believe that this can be done by adjusting the rate of calculation, but it cannot be that Mr Gijs van Dijk is just going to pretend that the new system is not going to provide additional and faster discounts, because it does. And you know that damn well too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u22	We are going to have this debate next year. I'm looking forward to it, too. I really don't know the contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u23	Come on! This can't be happening, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u24	But Mr De Jong is right, of course. We want a system that leads to indexing more quickly and possibly, if things get worse, that is to say, to go more along with the stock exchanges. That can also be negative, it can also lead to discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u25	Faster discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u26	That's right. Faster indexation, faster discounts, that's the idea of the new system. But I'm going to judge that. Mr De Jong is acting like I've known that for a long time. We have said: we support, with the FNV, the goals of that new contract, namely faster indexation perspective, less interest rate sensitive................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's where I'm gonna test it. I'm not signing that contract in advance. That is what we are going to do in the coming year, and that is where I challenge Mr De Jong to test that contact. And maybe, maybe, I'm not sure...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u27	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u28	...we'll find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u29	I really don't like this. In recent years, the PVV has tabled various motions, with different tones, to ensure that they could get a majority, in which we indicate: for example, make sure that there is a more real calculation rate, with the aim of indexing faster. The Labour Party was against it at all times, and why? Because she signed the new pension agreement, which says: shorten faster, shorten faster. You're acting like it's indexing faster, too. Well, I haven't seen that at all, and I still haven't, while the funds are doing a hell of a lot of good in terms of returns, and historically, they're doing a hell of a lot of good in terms of returns. They have a lot of cash and they can index. It cannot be explained that the Labour Party is opposed to this every time and has been engaged in some kind of media offensive for some time now to brush away its own mistakes from the past. It still has its signature under "we are going to try to index faster," but forget to mention that it is based on a principle of cutting faster. That is simply throwing sand in the eyes of so many people and also of the people who have always voted for the Labour Party in the past. They feel completely screwed with so much purchasing power decline. I simply do not understand why the Labour Party continues to do so and does not just stand next to us and say: we need to be indexed now; you do so by, for example, adjusting the calculation rate. And when it comes to extra discounts, no way, because you're still not saying that. Not even today; you don't take it off the table and you don't rule it out. And with that, it means shortening faster in the future. Well, stand up for it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u30	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u31	Oh, come on. But it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you for your input. I'm sure there'll be a lot of discussion about it. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. De Jong, but there's another interruption by Mrs. Maatoug. Mrs Maatoug, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u33	Of course, there are all people watching this debate, which is about the collectible law. I am very excited about the pension debates that we are hopefully going to have next year, because that is important legislation, where we simply have to do our monitoring job right. But today there are also votes on the Tax Plan, where there are a number of amendments that can improve purchasing power for pensioners, among others, this year. Because the cabinet has not been generous in that at all. I was curious to see how the PVV will vote on these amendments, including those of the PvdA. In fact, I am curious about that among other colleagues, because we are talking about money in the pockets for people, purchasing power positions that are still standing. Then let us not only say the words but also just vote well with the things that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u34	I shall now give the floor to Mr De Jong. It is a collectible law, but that does not mean that every subject... I understand the links, there is a connection between, but a short answer from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u35	The honourable Member is particularly keen to do these pension debates. Above all, I would like to make it possible to index again and to start with that. I hope to have other parties standing beside me; that is not what is happening in practice. When it comes to the Tax Plan, I didn't do the debate. I simply did not see the amendments. My colleague Edgar Mulder did a fantastic job in those debates. I think there's been three, three very long days. This week there has also been a treatment, today as well. So I assume that Mr Edgar Mulder, as he always does with a great deal of effort, is going to give us the votes. Then we will discuss it and you will see what we are doing in the votes. But you can count on one thing. When it comes to improving the position of ordinary Dutch people, we are always prepared to look at these proposals. In fact, we'll do them ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u36	Very good. The votes on the Tax Plan will take place shortly after lunch. The next speaker will be Mrs Beuker-Huijbregts. She will speak on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the official for the clear answers to the questions put by D66 and the other groups. As I indicated in the written contribution, I appreciate the constant updating of the social security system so that it gets better and better. It is an optimization of the status quo; I understand that. But on some topics more is needed: a transition to a new way of working. You can read in our election program what our ideas are. I think it is important to emphasise a few points: the importance of feasibility, insurance doctors, supplements and the transition to a new pension system. It is good that the rules on our social security are reviewed every year, but it is difficult for the performers. That is why I am pleased to read that there is a hardness clause following. That's what's needed, too. 'Cause who still understands our social security system? I am thinking, for example, of last Tuesday's case. A lady was agreed by the judge in Arnhem because taking one day's work in a year to determine the amount of benefit was totally detrimental. The judge said that was not what the UWV should have or should not have done. I would like to ask the Secretary of State more broadly if the UWV now has the room to do this differently. I have also asked written questions about it, so I can imagine that he will come back to it more precisely. But I'm really worried about that. I am also concerned about whether it will be possible to use that hardness clause, precisely because we as a Chamber have been very strict towards the UWV for a very long time. How does this relate to the problem identified with the WIA Day Wage Decision, which was mentioned in the bottlenecks letter? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one further point. In addition to the rigidities in the legislation, in the WIA, we are mainly faced with a shortage of insurance doctors. We keep getting back to each other. Very real: we are not going to solve this problem in the short term. We're really gonna have to make bigger choices. I am therefore curious to hear a reply from the Secretary of State to the question put by Mrs Maatoug earlier this afternoon. Earlier, the Minister wrote: I will discuss with the social partners what is needed further. I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State can comment on these talks and what options are available there. This collective law also contains an amendment to the provision in the General Law on income-dependent schemes, the Awir. As a result, children with one parent and without residence status are entitled to a child-related budget. My question is: what is the situation wider with the quick fixes? In any case, we will have to remove all the poignant situations from the system, even if only because the abolition of surcharges really takes some time. Could the Secretary of State give a stand on what's still going on? Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned that this annual optimisation of rules should not stand in the way of large transitions. Such a transition is coming. We will soon receive legislation on future pensions. If we are going to make such a big transition, I think it is crucial to prevent people from falling out of the boat, just in the old system and just not in the new system. It shouldn't be a world of difference. But we cannot rely on the new system until it is there and everything can be changed. At the same time, we do not want to create major differences between people who are a few years younger or older. I therefore support the proposal that we should already look at what is possible to index retroactively in 2022. People are hungry for that. I understand. Actually, I think that's quite right. Waiting a year is another year. No one wants that. How will the Secretary of State prevent people from waiting another year? How is he going to ensure proper treatment in parliament? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you very much for your input. Finally, Mr Smals, who will speak on behalf of the VVD, will have the floor in the first term of office. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I will not talk about the various elements of the collectible law. I shall confine myself to the issue of pensions and Mr Gijs van Dijk's amendment. Let me also say straight away that I understand the discontent that exists about the lack of indexing. As far as the VVD is concerned, the path to the new system is the solution. Anyway, we read the amendment. We have a few reservations about this. The treatment of the new Pension Act and the transition to the new system require a great deal of care; later, in the legal treatment of the WTP, but also if we are now trying to anticipate it. I think that is the intention of the amendment. In short, proposals that anticipate the implementation of the WTP should also be surrounded by those safeguards and cares. After all, the VVD wants to be assured that the transition to the new system takes account of the rights of all participants to a proportionate extent. That is why I am very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the amendment and await it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you very much for your input. I suggest we suspend until 12:25... 13:25. We're going back in time! That's good, too; that would be nice. I'm suspending the meeting until 1.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u41	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the SZW Collecting Act. We need the government's response in the first term. I am going to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr President, thank you. Sorry I'm late. The preparation took a little more time; it almost seemed to be a mini-budget. The budget is almost there, on 30 November. I hope I can make it, but we're gonna see that. Thank you for all the questions from the Chamber. I'm trying to be a little structured about it, and you can judge at the end if that worked. I'll start briefly with a reflection. I have been asked by a number of Members, I understand that. Then I come to bottlenecks and the hardness clause on which questions have been asked, among other things about the UWV. Then I'll get into debt and finally retire. Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of proposals in this collectible law. The amendments concern in particular social security legislation, but there are mainly technical changes in the areas of industrial relations, working conditions and childcare. These changes restore or clarify omissions, and provide further details on policy choices made. In the written round of your committee, the government tried to respond as comprehensively as possible to all the questions. Here's what I'm gonna say. In order to ensure the proper functioning and proper implementation of these laws, we would very much like to see this start on 1 January. Many colleagues have also mentioned positive points contained in this law. GroenLinks said that very nicely: in the end, this law is about what we're going to do for people differently. There will be good improvements on 1 January. Let us hope, therefore, that we will be able to bring it into effect on 1 January. The question that some of you have raised, Mr Stoffer, is perhaps the most obvious: how did this process go and what exactly is the Collecting Law intended for? As the SGP should be, he rightly points to the Council of State, which rightly speaks about this: small policy. That's what we're trying to do with this bill. These are mainly textual adaptations, technical improvements, clarification of certain points and sometimes also proposals to clarify and clarify policy choices. I admit immediately: with all the changes that come into such a law, it can feel like "What's going on here? What's it about in a minute? Do I even have the overview to understand if we're not doing too big things?" I'll tell you the truth, it's pragmatic in such a ministry. We then hear that we can do something good for people, for example the study grant in Breed offensive. He'll be here on the table. I also had in mind if we could do something with that. And so there were other points, for example the amendment to the Fraud Act by Mr Peters and Mr Bruins on the friendly debt regime. Can't we work with that? Wouldn't it be nice if we didn't make that happen earlier? But when you do that, you often include something extra in such a law, and added together you may wonder if that's right. I take that reflection to heart, and we will keep a closer eye on it in another collectible law. But it comes from good intentions, I say to Mr Stoffer. I'll be right back to his specific questions. Of course, it is always necessary to consider whether a certain change fits the criteria in a collection process. Mr Stoffer has mentioned a number of which he does not think fit. I'll get to that in a minute and then he'll be able to assess whether or not that fits. I'm just gonna take one more example for the reflection. Why is a politically sensitive issue such as the hardness clause included in the Collecting Act? That is also a fair question. This has been answered in the written input. That choice can be explained by our earlier commitment to the Chamber that we said that this would come into play during the pre-accession procedure in the decision-making process in 2020. The aim of this commitment was to allow the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2021, the shortest possible period. In addition, the wording of the clause was based on commonly used clauses. In addition, we thought we had it on a regular basis, but the Council of State has cracked critical notes about it and also made the fundamental reflection on the subject. In doing so, we have decided to take it out of this law. In the meantime, we have already put it into consultation and are going to send it separately to the Chamber shortly, so that we can have a net trajectory for that. That was just a reflection. Then I'll get to the bottlenecks. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I'm trying to walk them off a little bit. There was a question from GroenLinks and PvdA: is the Secretary of State prepared to get to work and inform the Chamber about solutions put forward and the advantages and disadvantages before the budget debate? I come to general issues, but one was specifically mentioned about the social-medical assessments. In the previous state of implementation, I reported that the UWV has started implementing two key measures to reduce the increasing mismatch between the supply of and demand for social-medical services. There will be a change to a management model for social-medical services and there will be a more effective involvement of the insurance doctor in the Disease Act. In the next state of the art I'm going to update on this. In the letter of 9 April, one of my predecessors indicated that more is needed and far-reaching choices are needed. I share that with the PvdA and GroenLinks. Those are necessary. Some of them have been examined before, and that is why we are now discussing with the social partners how we then weigh the consequences of these different options and the measures. That weighting will be necessary. That's what we're doing right now. I will inform you of the outcome as soon as possible, at the latest in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mrs Maatoug has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you to the Secretary of State for this answer. I'm a pretty practical person. I am now sitting in the Chamber for about seven months and the problem is actually being discussed in quite a lot of debates. We're lagging behind now. We've got big stacks of retests. In the conversation with the UWV it was indicated that the people who have to do the work run into it all the way. I very much agree that we should have a good talk, especially about fundamental changes. I look forward to that information. But spring sounds far for such an urgent problem that every day leads to higher stacks. I found this proposal very concrete. Let's not re-evaluate this group of people for a while, and then the pile gets a little shorter. That's small and pragmatic. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State: isn't it a shame to leave that until spring?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u45	That is a good question in itself, and we say it is good to discuss it with the social partners. Until spring is a lot of time to discuss it. You are actually asking: can we not do this faster and can we not do it sooner? I will come back to the wider question of bottlenecks. Let us do it in such a way that we check where it stands, including those talks with the social partners. I will come back to that with the next point I am going to say something about. In any case, that is for the budget. I can't quite see where the consultation with social partners stands. If there are bottlenecks that we can do quickly, it is also my wish to do so quickly. So we're going to take stock of that, but there are considerations in which, of course, you have to take good care of the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u46	It's always good to bring a lot of people. I would like to hear what the relief would be if we did this piece of work before the budget debate. I hope the Secretary of State can promise that. Imagine that it really is an enlightenment for the UWV; then I would like to weigh it differently. I would find it a shame to let the piles go up for months, while perhaps we could rather decide on this piece for 60-plussers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u47	I'll take this part with me to the next question. I get that question. I think we can adapt a sleeve to that, but we want an overview of all these bottlenecks. That was also requested by PvdA and GroenLinks. The question was: are you prepared to present all the mentioned UWV and SVB bottlenecks with the solutions with the advantages and disadvantages, so that the Chamber can decide on them? That is not just about the point before that, but about all the points. When will we get back to that? UWV and SVB are talking about this bottlenecks letter, also in the broad over hardnesses for groups. Those are harshness from policy or legislation. It is important that there should be balanced legislation on human standards. Those glasses make us look at all these bottlenecks. I should like to return to your Chamber in the letter on the state of implementation. That's the most appropriate thing. Your question is: when is it coming? We are now expecting early December. I can see if I can make it a few more days faster. Then we got the first question and I think we got this one together. We shall return to it in the written reply. That's how I'd like to commit to it. A few specific questions from among others D66, the Labour Party and GroenLinks. Does the UWV now have the space to do the daily wage fixing differently? Is it possible to use the hardness clause? How does this relate to the problem identified with the Daily Wage Decision in the WIA, also mentioned in the bottlenecks letter? Let me say the following. The judge recently gave a ruling on the day's pay and the payment of a lady, who was very low. It had worked very briefly at the beginning of the reference period and then not for a long time. At the end of that reference period, she had worked for several months. Written questions have been asked on this issue. I must honestly tell you that we are now discussing this with UWV, specifically about this case, but also about the general question of what this says about the harshness we have in the legislation with regard to some people. We would like to provide it with a good answer, but since it is quite technical, I would like to do so in writing in the reply I have just promised. I'll make sure that's okay. Then there are Mr Stoffer's questions about the WIA advances. Does the UWV simply continue to recover the WIA advances? Doesn't that put more emphasis on the waiting lists? Mr Stoffer actually asked a number of questions about this. In the summer, we informed the Chamber that the UWV is stopping, as Mr Stoffer said, by recovering advances from beneficiaries until 31 December 2022. Indeed, the Limburg court recently decided that advance payments to the WGA account should not be charged to its own risk-bearing employer. The UWV and I do not entirely agree with that ruling and have therefore brought an appeal. So that's under the judge now, too. The UWV has been charging such advances for many years. I have therefore also given the full legal basis in the explanatory memorandum. Now that it sees a clarification of the law, in this collectible law, I think that careful action has also been taken. I agree with the Chamber that everything must be done to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand. The UWV has already taken a few steps in this direction. We will also have to take further steps in this direction. In addition, I would like to point out to Mr Stoffer that the own-risk carrier receives the advance paid by the UWV, should it prove that the employee is not entitled to a benefit, but has received an advance which he may retain. Mr. Chairman. D66 has asked a number of questions about the surcharges, including quick fixes, harrowing situations and an intermediate position: what could we do about them? Before the summer, the cabinet sent a letter containing an overview of the bottlenecks to the surcharges, with an initial inventory of the solutions where possible. The new cabinet is asked in that letter to make a careful full assessment. That is important, because not everything can and cannot be done at the same time. There is also limited implementation capacity; we have to take that into account. But for the solutions that have been worked out, these execution tests are even more relevant, before you can see how to get it into law and regulation. The cabinet announced a follow-up before the end of the year, with sheets containing the concrete directions for resolution which still needed further work. That commitment has been and will be fulfilled. Then I come to the WGA advances, also a question from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u48	May I interrupt you for a moment? Because I think Mr Stoffer has a question on an earlier point. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u49	I thought, before we get all tangled up in the next subject, it would be good to watch for this rather tricky matter how you do that neatly. In the answer of the Secretary of State to my question on the WIA advances, it is in itself nice that, where that does not match, that is refunded. But the tricky thing is that the Secretary of State and the UWV look a little differently at that ruling of the court in Limburg, and appeal. I get that. Wouldn't it be wiser to wait until that appeal ruling comes? Because it may be that the amendment of the law will not fit with the ruling in appeal, which makes it very difficult and annoying. Couldn't the order be different from what is being proposed now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u50	As we see it, it is a clarification of what is already in the law. So it's not an adjustment that changes the situation you mention all of a sudden. You're saying reflect on this situation. We have done this very legally in the explanatory statement. That's under the judge. We think it is right for this debate to arise, here too, but we must take account of the ruling in appeal. If that leads to a necessary adjustment, we will do so again. Then we'll talk about how things should be different in the law. But what it says now is a clarification of what is already happening in practice. It's not a change, and that's why it's in the Collector's Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u51	It's just from what perspective you're looking at this. I can imagine what the Secretary of State is saying, but if you're not careful, you're gonna get into adjustment, making it complicated and more difficult. Make the world a little easier and do that order the other way around: get him out of here. You can still discuss whether you still have to deal with it extensively in the Chamber, but in any case it would be neat or simpler to just wait for that appeal and then make that adjustment. Then you do well in one go and it also saves administrative capacity, but the latter aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u52	That brings me to the amendment tabled by Mr Stoffer. The legal basis for WGA advances on own risk carriers is already in place. So that's not new. It has been used for years. We clarify that in the law. You say that the case in Limburg shows that things should be different. We have explained why we do not think that is the case. But we are not steel either: if it turns out that the judge weighs this differently... Mr Stoffer already weighs that differently. We say, because we've been doing it for so long, we want to do it properly in court first. If that leads to the need for a change, then we will propose it. But I can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u53	Still a little while. I think it would be a good idea to exchange arguments in this matter. The whole thing comes from the fact that we have too few medical examiners at the UWV. I could understand a lot if you had that in order, but that also plays in between and makes things complicated. I understand that the Secretary of State says that the line is and will remain that, if that is the cause, this will be handled neatly, because you cannot let employers suffer. I can appreciate that in itself. But I say, wait for that appeal, get it in order, and then adjust the law. Then I think you'll be out in one go. But I'm guessing that, based on what I've heard, we don't exactly agree on that. That is a difficult thing for us, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u54	I honestly say to Mr Stoffer that it is my problem that this legal basis for telling a WHO advance on own risk carriers is already in place. If we took this out of the law, it wouldn't make Mr. Stoffer's point out of the law. In that case, he would have to make an amendment which I would make in order to take this out of the law specifically. We say that this is a clarification and not a change. So it's already in the law. You're saying I wouldn't want it in the law. But then it won't be enough to get it out of the Collector's Act. Then you should move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u55	Did you also give an opinion on the amendment to item No. 15?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u56	Yeah, I'd advise against that. But here's what I'd like to say. Mr Stoffer asked about the fictional ZW claims. The aim of the no-risk policy is to cross the line between employers and employing a person with a disability record. The present proposal is based on a situation in which, a few years after taking up office, employers still submit a fictitious claim for sickness benefit to UWV. The claim is fictitious because it is not possible to pay the sickness benefit through time. That is why we have regulated in this bill that employers can no longer obtain the WGA benefit, so that the sickness benefit can no longer be paid due to time lag. The time has come to do so for three years, and that is what we consider realistic. In conjunction with the previous answer, I must therefore reject Mr Stoffer's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u57	The amendment in part No. 15 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u58	But that makes Mr Stoffer's point no less relevant. As has already been explained in the explanatory memorandum on the legal claim, we will look at this in conjunction with the ruling that the judge is going to make about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u59	I was trying to incorporate what we had a discussion about at the previous point. I've been trying to follow this in the meantime. At the UWV is just insightful who is entitled to sickness benefit. Wouldn't it be much better if that was the starting point instead of the situation you're in right now? Because in that, an employer must try to find out and if he doesn't find out just in time, then there is a great risk. I can understand a lot of things, but the hard part is that in the end you find the people you want to have at work, the people who have a distance from the labour market, for example because they are sick or have a disability. If I were an employer, I'd start scratching behind my ears a little bit when I see all this. Then I'd think, "I'm not taking that risk anymore." The result is that it ends up in this area, I think we understand each other in the people you wouldn't want it to be. Actually, that's my point. I have a little pain in the heart from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u60	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u61	Several parties have asked for this. I get the pain. That pain is in it. It's a technical change; it's how we see it that this proposal regulates that employers can't get that WGA benefit if the sick money isn't paid out of time. The sickness benefit is therefore no longer paid by time. This means, in concrete terms, that after the first day of sickness you have three years to make that claim. Three years is quite a long time, because in the end the goal of that no-risk policy is also to draw people over the line. If they make that claim in good time, they can simply take advantage of those WGA benefits. But there was now some sort of unlimited possibility. That makes it complicated both in the implementation and in the objective we are aiming for. That's why we've been using these three years. That is a long time for that employer, because within that time you can of course make that claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u62	To conclude on this point, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u63	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Look, I don't know how big the problem is. Maybe the Secretary of State has more insight into that. It may well be that this is only a very few. Then we are also talking financially about not too hard risks. Could the Secretary of State give me a picture before we vote on this, of the size of the problem? I do not need to know on the exact last numbers and on the exact last euro, but on the gross mode. That makes it easier for me to understand exactly what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u64	As far as I can see, I can do my best to say something about this in the second term. Well, that sounds convenient to me. That's the fastest way. Because I can't quite see if we have those numbers exactly. We're gonna have to make a call about that. I hope that will work in the limited time we have now, but I'm going to do my best to do that. Of course, I'd like to give you that information when I have it. That's not a problem. We're gonna do our best, or we're gonna look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u65	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the block of debt. Several questions have been asked about this. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked about the BKR registrations. This question is separate from the collectible law, but of course I am happy to respond to it. It's undesirable that people make new debts when they get debt relief. We agree on that. Registration at BKR is an important instrument, as Mr Van Dijk also said, in order to understand how many debts someone already has and also to prevent it from becoming more. Credit providers then decide for themselves whether they consider it justified to provide a credit. However, I believe that it would be more desirable for the consultation between lender and consumer to look at how debt is dealt with by the corona crisis. The question is whether shortening the registration period is the solution. Do they then look more at that desirability, whether it is proportional and what else you could do? If you shorten that registration period, the protection against overdrafting will also lapse. That's also a risk we're seeing. So we should take a closer look at that, I say to Mr Gijs van Dijk. We will soon have some sort of collecting law, namely the budget. That is where this could also be discussed. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the point of the study allowance. This is the subject of the Peters/Bruins motion and the amendment by GroenLinks and the PvdA. The cabinet agrees with them that it is an important change and that we should also actively communicate with municipalities, UWV and SVB. Moreover, I have always done so wherever I can before, including in reply to your parliamentary questions. I've also encouraged congregations. They have the means to do so. I told them to use it, too. This was one of the points of which we felt it was a shame that it was on a broad offensive, but remained here. I just said it in the introduction. It's a nice, right point. Let's pick that up. It is in the news that we are now sending to municipalities. It's called City News. From 15 November onwards, we ask municipalities to anticipate this. The amendment then calls for this to be done as from 1 January. Although, perhaps, that amendment has been amended, I now change my mind, and it has become 1 April. That gives a little more space to actually realize it. It's not the intention or we wouldn't want it, but it's how we're going to make it possible. The amendment is very much appreciated and therefore welcomes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u67	I have an amended version of that amendment. That's part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u68	Yeah, that's no. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u69	I suppose that's true. In doing so, the amendment has been judged by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u70	Yes. Then a few more questions have been asked. One of the questions that has remained is Mrs Maatoug's. She asked if I share the view that it might be useful to share information on the amount of the claim as well as only the contact details. In order to relieve people of their debts, it is necessary to exchange information on the amount of the claim. The municipal debt relief also allows for the exchange of necessary information between government, creditors and aid workers. So there's room to do that. In the light of the circumstances, it will be examined whether this is being applied. That was the block of debt, but maybe there's a question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mrs Maatoug, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you for having gotten the amendment, Chamber. Politics can be beautiful sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u73	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u74	We're getting reports that a lot of people don't know this. Let's get to the point. It'd be nice if people would come forward and we'd take the space that's there completely. I think that's what we all want. The unfamiliarity does something with how it is now applied. I'm looking for a little bit of what we can do to improve that. I hope that, for example, through this message, we will say to everyone: if people come forward, then that space is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u75	That is actually an appeal to our creativity. That's always good, because the possibility is there. Now the question is whether it is also known and whether it is being used. That seems to me to be a valid point. Let me take that where I can take it. On the other hand, I would like to ask Mrs Maatoug the same question. Perhaps if we also make a progress report in the context of debt, we will see if we can bring this to the fore. That's what we do in the city news. So maybe that's the right place to do that again, but let's see how we could do that together. In any case, I agree with Mrs Maatoug that it is wise to remind them of these possibilities. Mr. Chairman. I'll retire.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u76	Oh, there's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u77	I thought, perhaps there will be more about debts, because I also asked the question about this forgiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u78	Sorry, excuse me. I had this pile of things lying around, and I was just looking for where it was. Can we forgive people's debts in the spirit of current legislation? The limitation of the cooperation ban allows municipalities, UWV and SVB to participate in a debt settlement with final discharge. This calls for an individual assessment; that is how it is now arranged. So discharge can only follow a successful process of such a process. Implementation has the power to do so. The possibility of doing so is there, but on an individual basis. So we can't commit that generically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u79	I get this. I always hope that the whole world will look at these debates here in this plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u80	I tweeted that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u81	If I understand correctly, we can't do it automatically, but if people report, we can do it on our own. The Secretary of State says that space is there; so please do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u82	"Please do"... then I'm going to sit very much in the chair of the review. That sounds weird to me. We didn't set it up, but forgiveness can follow the moment you have successfully completed such a journey. That also requires an individual assessment. It's being made, and it could be involved. I cannot estimate from this place, in any situation, what is appropriate or inappropriate. It is a good thing that municipalities have the expertise for that and I trust them in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u83	Retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yeah, you're ready for that, aren't you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u85	I do, in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u86	There are wishes from the Chamber, I understand. I heard that one, because there were a lot of questions about retirement. Let me start with Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts' question. She asked how the Secretary of State will prevent people from having to wait another year for indexation and how he is going to ensure proper treatment in parliament. Many funds have not been able to index in a long time. The call to do so, I get it. We've changed that here in this Chamber before. I also support the importance of proper treatment in Parliament. Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts rightly points that out. I therefore think it wise that you should have a link between those stricter rules and the Future Pensions Act and that we should also monitor them with each other, because what we are going to do is simply something else. When I hear her like that, she thinks it's wise. A joint debate could not take place with Mr Van Dijk's amendment; I shall come to that later. In response to that amendment, I will explain why I have difficulty with it, because it is precisely this coherence, as you put it here, that is right. I will take that into account in the appreciation of the amendment. Mr. Chairman. I shall come straight to Mr Gijs van Dijk's amendment, because I think that is the subject of a large part of the debate and of the questions put. The Future Pensions Act introduces new pension contracts. These contracts simply have different rules for raising and reducing pensions compared to the current benefit agreement. Mr Van Dijk knows that too. In the run-up to this new system, to the Future Pensions Act, it is possible to use a temporary financial review framework for the funds that intend to go to that new system, to that new world, as Mr Van Dijk often says. Part of that is that you can index earlier. It is therefore a reduction in the indexing limit. Now it's 110 and it'll be 105. There are therefore more opportunities for funds to index. This reduction is logical from the point of view of the new system, and I also understand the desire to bring it forward, because many funds have not been able to index for a long time, as Mr Van Dijk rightly says in his amendment. That is why the cabinet also indicated in this summer's progress letter that it wanted to see which parts could enter into force earlier than 1 January 2023, provided that parliamentary treatment allowed. In that sense, I also understand the amendment. We also needed more time from Social Affairs to bring that law to the Chamber. The law isn't here yet. It should enter into force on 1 January 2022 and that became a year later. So Mr Van Dijk's appeal is good. I understand that. I also said earlier that I would like to see where there is room, but I do have substantive objections to this amendment. The amendment removes the substantive link between the Future Pensions Act and the indexation rules. That Wtp and the transition ftk are tied together. Without that law, there's no such thing as transition ftk. Therefore, one condition for the use of that transition ftk is also that funds have the intention to move to that new system. For example, the link also refers to the guarantees and the conditions. In the Future Pensions Act, the use of a transition ftk is also linked to several of those kinds of safeguards in terms of underpinning and understanding effects for all participants. That must be balanced. A unilateral amendment to the law aimed at increasing the indexing perspective without further conditions does, I say to Mr Van Dijk, have risks of balance. Then we're going to hand out something that younger generations might think: what about me if that fund doesn't take that step towards that new world? We both want those funds to do that, but how much trust can you give each other and what guarantees do you need? Those safeguards are not in the amendment. I also think it is important, and that is the second reason, that the Chamber can take note of both documents, i.e. and of the Future Pensions Act and the adapted indexation rules. That is purely for the parliamentary process and also for the full assessment here in this Chamber. The amendment does not contain this essential link and neither does the safeguards, and I must therefore discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you for your answer on this point. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u88	This amendment stems from the position of the Cabinet and of this State Secretary, also expressed in an earlier debate with Mr De Jong at Oral Question Time, that it is precisely to maintain the link between another indexing regime promised before 1 January 2022, which is also reflected in previous letters from the Cabinet and a successful discussion on a new system. I understand that there is a relationship between these two, but I really find it hard to imagine that people might be indexed sooner or easier, by more flexible rules, but they have to say yes to the pension contract, which I don't even know yet. That is why I tabled the amendment. So I want the cabinet to speed up and send a signal to funds that in 2022 we will give the foretaste to the funds that indeed have that intention to move to a new world. That is a little bit separate from the whole process of dealing with the new system, because we will have to take the time to do so in this house, because it is a very extensive legislative process. So I want to rush out of the cabinet, and if we continue to link it to the entire legal process surrounding a new pension contract, I will see that it may not be 1 January 2023. Then there will be a delay and then all those people who are waiting for indexation will become even more angry. And rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u89	I understand the dilemma and I sympathize with Mr Van Dijk that a good appetizer hopefully leads to a tasty main course. But that includes the fact that what we can do in it must offer a perspective to all those participants on a balanced, well-new system. Because that's what we want with each other. That is why the cabinet has also said: you can only do that when we in the Chamber have been able to have that discussion with each other and know that law, and we have then said that we are making that step towards that new world together. If we do so, the Cabinet is prepared to give these funds the possibility to index retroactively over 2022. What Mr Van Dijk is saying now is: I am not looking at guarantees and balances; I am simply going to give funds the opportunity to index now and then I will see how future generations and a balanced pension are going to proceed. That doesn't help those funds. I don't think that's gonna help the contestants, and I don't think it's gonna help the parents. You do want to make the serious consideration of whether you're going to take that step. And if you take that step, you might also dare to index. But we don't know that until we have that law here. That is a question of a purely parliamentary process, I would like to say to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u90	Luckily, that's what we're dealing with in this house. I think it's important that we make sure it's not linked to that whole legal process. I sympathise with the Secretary of State: of course it must be balanced and, of course, there must be a guarantee that funds will not be distributed just like that. I am also talking for a reason about a policy coverage rate of 105, just as the cabinet does. However, I would like to see, as soon as possible in 2022, the signal that there is the possibility of indexing funds that indeed have the intention to switch. That applies to the funds that are good for them. I'd like to get that signal from the cabinet. There is still a link in the reaction of the Secretary of State, namely: you have to say yes to the contract and then the indexation comes. I understand it from the cabinet, but I don't think the people and I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u91	No. We have to make sure that people still understand in two years' time. If we have done this and indexed a fund, but the Court decides not to adopt that law or that fund decides not to move to the new system, then it has indexed it. So it took something out of that pot, when we had such clear rules to prevent that from happening at the expense of future generations. Your amendment does not contain these safeguards. Then we'll just have to trust the fund on its blue eyes. In the transition-ftk there are those safeguards. That's one of the elements that makes it complicated to do this. But on the other hand, I do understand the point. How much certainty do we have that that law is going to make it at some point next year? Let's assume we want that law to work. That's what you want. But if we still have to send it to the Council of State, then it has to go to the Chamber and to the Supreme Court. The funds will take their indexation decisions at the end of October/mid-November. What we would not want is that this retroactive effect to 2022 would no longer be possible in such an indexing decision. Then we're actually putting the horse behind the cart. Because then we will have a good law, but the reason that is rightfully important for many pensioners, which is to show that the new system is going to produce some results, so that you will index faster, we have not realised. I told you before, I'm willing to see how you could do that. There are guarantees and some knowledge of this new law. Because then the Chamber can also look at this in conjunction. Those steps are not in your amendment. That does not allow me to give the amendment a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u92	Finally, concluding on this point, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u93	This is purely about the amendment. In that sense, I am not concerned with the means. I want us to send a signal to the funds that are doing well and who intend to move to a new world that they will be able to index in 2022. This is very important for all participants, because the workers have also stopped working for 13 years. They also suffer from it, especially when they retire at some point. So I'm gonna go check it out. But I want the Cabinet to speed up that indexing option and the more flexible rules. I'm gonna ask the Chamber about that, too. I will also look at the guarantees. But I really want to get the message from the cabinet. I'm going to ask the Chamber that the funds that can do that can index in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u94	I do not think anyone here recognizes the importance of indexing. It is only important that I have heard other parties say that if we create those opportunities... As a cabinet, we say that we would like to do so at the end of next year, on condition that that law has been passed. Then Mr Gijs van Dijk says: yes, but I do not even know whether that law has been passed or not. If funds do have the intention, you must also have taken guarantees so that those funds can do so. But if this whole party doesn't go on, then there will be consequences again, because you have to restore balance. We could see where we could go. But we really need to look at how that should be done. That's what I said the other day. I don't have a prescription for that right now. We have the willingness to look into this, but we await Mr Van Dijk's complete proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you. I think you're also at the end of your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u97	In fact, I would suggest that you ask your questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u98	A question from me is still unanswered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u99	That question is still being answered. I am also saying that the amendment to item No. 13 has been advised against judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u100	It's about the child-related budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u101	Can the Secretary of State still answer that question or should it be answered in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I know what it's about, but I don't have it in my set right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u103	It was about the child-related budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u104	Yes, it is also about the linking principle. Can you repeat the question again? Then I'll try to answer it now. Otherwise, I'll get back to you in a minute. Sorry, I didn't get him ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u105	I'm a little worried about time. The Secretary of State has the answer somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u106	Can we do it in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u107	I suggest he give the answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u109	We can now move on to the second term on the side of the Chamber. Mr De Jong has another point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u110	I've also asked questions. Maybe the Secretary of State can answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u111	About?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u112	Does Mr De Jong mean the question that was raised that the amendment should not lead to reductions? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u113	That disappoints me again, doesn't it? You ask questions and the Secretary of State says, "What did you say?" I just asked a question. This is indeed about the fact that an amendment has been tabled which, as far as I am concerned, deals with the new system. Does the Secretary of State read it this way: no, the new system is mentioned, but this amendment is not based on the spirit to shorten it more quickly in the future? Or does the Secretary of State say: yes, it is in the spirit of the new system and this amendment is therefore based on being able to shorten faster? That is important for us when we vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u114	I get that. Excuse me, I didn't deliberately skip it, but so does Mr Léon de Jong. I'm glad he's still smiling. It is not about the discount rules, I say to Mr De Jong. That is not how I see the amendment. Bringing forward the discount rules is also more difficult in substance, because the discount rules of the transition-ftk, i.e. the supervisory framework that is valid until the switch to the new contract, are the focus of that switch. Doing what is necessary in the context of the switch and avoiding unnecessary discounts in the context of the switch: that is what this is about. That's what the new pension contract is about. You have other methods for calculating interest rates, but this new pension contract is also trying to find a solution. Apart from the fact that I did not recommend the amendment, I read the amendment in such a way that it concerns the raising of indexing rules and not the reduction rules. It's not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u115	Yeah? Responding brightly. This means that we are on the government's side at the end of the first term. I'll go straight on with the second term. As the first speaker, Mr Van Dijk will again speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm gonna say about pensions. I joined the collective bill because of the great concern of pensioners that the indexation is not going to happen. We're on our way to a new world. We're gonna talk about a new pension contract here next year. I want the funds that intend to switch, which are at 105% or higher and have the possibility, to start indexing in the coming year. I think the Secretary of State is too cautious in that regard. He's gonna keep linking it to that law-enforcement thing. As I have just said, I am therefore going to ask the Chamber for a ruling in order to give room with the necessary safeguards next year. I'll ask the cabinet to work it out. I see Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u117	Yes. Or would you like to wait for the motion to be read, Mr. De Jong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u118	I was about to file a motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u119	Yes, first the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u120	So I'll come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas participants have been waiting more than 10 years for their pension to be indexed and pensioners should be able to enjoy a carefree old age;]] [[noting that the new pension contract is awaiting completion, while the new pension contract is intended to give more perspective on indexation;]] [[Considering that, in the context of the transition rules to the new pension contract, the rules on indexation change, allowing for a reduced indexing limit to be applied, but that conditions on balance between generations and the intention to switch to the new pension contract are essential for this;]] [[noting that the Government has already expressed its view that the transition framework could enter into force earlier than 1 January 2023, thus making earlier use of the envisaged reduced indexing limit;]] [[calls on the Government to send an impact to the Chamber in the very short term to allow pension funds with a policy coverage of 105% for the year 2022 to be indexed with strong guarantees of balanced entry and the interests of future generations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Palland and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35897-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u121	I would also like to say that with this motion I am also making a move towards the cabinet around the concerns about the amendment. I think that Mr De Jong will bring that up. But I do call on the cabinet with a number of members in the Chamber to move faster than it has said in previous responses in Parliamentary letters. So those funds that have the intention to switch and stand at 105 should be able to start indexing in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u122	So the Labour Party says here to the funds and to all those millions of participants: it can only be indexed if these pension funds go to the new contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u123	No, I'm not saying that. I'm saying it's about intent, but then maybe we're going to do the debate again. An appointment was made for the pension agreement on the pension contract. I would like to see reduced indexing limits possible as from 1 January 2022. That deal doesn't come true to the Cabinet. I want the cabinet to keep that appointment. I first tried the amendment for that. I hear it's being dissuaded. That is why I come now with this motion, in which I ask the Chamber to support putting the cabinet to work. The intention must be from funds, but it must eventually be from separate legal treatment. I do not want that link anymore that the transition regime will only be granted if we say yes to the pension contract. I want that to take effect sooner and therefore this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u124	This is just pure blackmail towards pension funds, pure blackmail towards pension participants. And why? Because Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party says that the funds must have the intention. This simply means moving to the new pension system. That's what they have to do. You may be able to say no, but you say that the intention of the funds must be to go to the new contract. That's what the Labour Party says here. This means that pension funds feel the pressure to be positive about the new system, which is also going to mean that their participants need to be cut earlier, and that is unfair. That's pure blackmail, and I don't understand why the Labour Party does that. I am about to table a motion to simply ensure that there can be indexed in the short term and that no pressure is placed on pension funds to move towards the new pension contract. I hope that the Labour Party, who says here "no, no, no," will say yes to my motion. Then it's just clip-and-ready, but you don't. The reason I'm so worried about this is because only charlatans do that. If you pretend in the Chamber that you want people to be indexed and blackmailed into pension funds, that is a real scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u125	That is really up to Mr De Jong. I'm worried about a lot of participants who've been standing still for years. I think we're fighting the same battle in that. I see the cabinet slowing down due to all kinds of legal stuff. I want to see the possibility of indexing in 2022. I had an amendment on that, but it is not recommended. Then I'll make it possible with this motion. If that's what we want as a room, we're gonna do it. That's what I'm asking the Cabinet. I do ask for balance for generations, because funds do so now when they make that decision. I leave the word "charlatan" to Mr De Jong. I stand here for the interests of participants and pensioners who have been standing still for years. That is why we are putting pressure on the cabinet to ensure that, by 2022, it can be indexed by funds that can do so, because they are entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u126	That was the end of your input. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mrs Maatoug. She will speak on behalf of GroenLinks in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. I await the answers to questions about the child-related budget in the second term. They are very relevant to my group, because we had an amendment on that subject in preparation. I look forward to those answers. I thank the Secretary of State for the promised letter on the bottlenecks; very nice. I am also glad that you are going to do your best to do that for the budget. I know it's gonna be hard work by all your dear officials. My question is whether I have understood correctly that it takes our proposal into account as a result of the discussion that we had and what that results in, because then we can take that into account in the assessment of the budget. Also thank you for the clear commitment that the UWV can also help people with other benefits with the data sharing law; I understood that. Thank you for that commitment. Then I'll wait for the answers in second term. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that until recently, municipalities, UWV and SVB were not allowed to agree to a debt settlement against final discharge in the event of a breach of the intelligence obligation;]] [[Considering that after a three-year debt settlement many people still had to repay an outstanding debt;]] [[noting that an amendment was adopted a year ago limiting this prohibition to claims involving demonstrable intent or gross negligence;]] [[believes that those who have a residual debt after a debt settlement, which was not proven intent or gross debt, also deserve forgiveness and should not apply for another debt settlement;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the implementing organisations to grant automatic remission in these cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35897-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u128	We started with it: we often talk in the Chamber about the implementation of such a collecting law; you see how much can get underneath. I hope that we will continue to do this well together in committee, because it deserves all our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer, who will speak on behalf of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. Chairman. In the interruptions we have fairly shared the points I have raised, I think. So far we have not fully agreed on this, but I do not think we should repeat the debate. I would like to make two points. The first concerns the no-risk sickness benefit. In the second term, the Secretary of State will give me an answer on how many people and how much money we are actually talking about. I still have a question to which I would like an answer. I asked if at UWV there is any insight as to who is entitled to sickness benefit. If that is the case, I think it is, but I would like to hear it, then you could solve the problem by not taking as a starting point the claim of sickness money in good time, but by allowing the right to benefit to lead. I would like to hear, one more answer to that and, two, a bit of a point of view which shows why the Secretary of State sees this differently from me. Mr. Chairman. Then the first point I raised in my first term: the WIA advances. We didn't quite agree on that either. This was actually brought in by means of a letter of amendment. Suppose the Council of State would have advised on this; what would he have said? That is the most difficult point for me. That makes it much harder for me to look at this positively. Well, sometimes you have colleagues in the Chamber, so I put the credits where they belong. Mr De Jong of the PVV said to me: then would you just ask the Secretary of State to "just a moment" to ask the Council of State for an expedited opinion? So that's why, Chairman, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an amendment is included in the Collecting Act SZW 2022 which sees that "WGA advance payments' provided to employees by the UWV can be recovered from own risk-bearing employers if it appears that there was no entitlement to benefit;]] [[noting that this part of the Collection Act was included in a letter of amendment, which did not provide the Court with an opinion on this matter from the Council of State;]] [[whereas this is desirable in the context of a careful legislative process;]] [[calls on the Government to request the Council of State to issue an opinion on this part of the law as a matter of urgency before the Chamber votes on this bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35897-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Jong, who will speak on behalf of the PVV in second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr. Chairman. A couple of motions. The first concerns the nationality requirement in the AOW. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to remove the nationality requirement in the AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Léon de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35897-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u134	Then there's the second motion. I am so used to you saying: is this motion sufficiently supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u135	Yes, but that rule has expired since March 17th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u136	I'm really a purist. I thought it was such a lovely sentence! I've got him into the Acts myself for a while now. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. It's about pension indexing, of course. I do not think that you should blackmail pension funds by saying: you can only index when you say that you have the intention to go to the new pension contract. I believe that pension funds should consider this themselves. Indeed, I believe that the current pension system should be maintained and that you should correct looming errors within the current system. I refer, for example, to the method of calculation. But we are going to table the next motion and I hope that I can count on a majority in the Chamber so that we can quickly index it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the absence of a pension index for 13 years has resulted in a 25% loss of pension purchasing power for pensioners and workers;]] [[Whereas, with the yields achieved and the huge buffer of pension funds, the absence of a pension index is unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government to adjust the rate of calculation to a more real rate of calculation, which is more appropriate to the multiannual rate of return of pension funds, thereby preventing discounts and allowing indexing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Léon de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35897-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u138	The next speaker will be Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. She will speak on behalf of D66 in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. And I would like to repeat here, and that is in line with the discussion or discussion that has taken place in the Chamber this afternoon about the pension indexing, that it is very important for D66 and I think it is also in the motion that Mr Van Dijk is going to come up with, but I have not yet put it on my table that there will be sufficient guarantees, so that if this indexation is indeed going to take place in 2022, that will have no consequences for future generations. We really do attach great importance to the fact that young people, who are now building up and are now contributing to their future pension, will not be affected very soon because we, as a Chamber, are very keen to accommodate pensioners and would already be able to accept indexation. So I have heard Mr Van Dijk's story or proposal as follows, and that is what it says in the motion as well: go talk to those funds, which will soon be with their coverage, so that they can index or at least make that possible, so that there will be no delay next year when we are at the same time working on the law. D66 agrees, and that also provides sufficient guarantees for future generations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you for your input. Finally, on behalf of the VVD, Mr Smals on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions and the debate on pensions. What I have heard is that the Secretary of State also wants to make an effort to see if it is possible to index in 2022 and really want to do his best. The comment I have on this from the VVD is: the reason why this indexation is going to be possible is because there is a transition-ftk coming, which has everything to do with the Wtp, the Future Pensions Act. So at the moment when we let go of the link between the introduction of the WTP and the possibility of indexing, we are in great danger of losing the need for the introduction of the WTP. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State to include this guarantee, in particular, in the effort he is going to make to ensure that indexing is possible by 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you very much for your input. This means that we will be on the side of the Chamber at the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u143	I suggest we suspend for lunch, because we haven't had it yet. I'm going to suspend until 3:10 p.m. And then the votes on the Tax Plan take place, and then the second-term appreciation of the Secretary of State on the motions submitted follows.
