ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	This brings us to the follow-up to the debate on the final report of the informators. I am now the first to give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There they were yesterday at the presentation: Rutte, Kaag, Hoekstra and Segers. The new impetus of Dutch politics. Four politicians responsible for the destruction of the Netherlands, for giving away everything that is dear to us: our culture, our money, our homes, our care. They have treated the Netherlands to countless types of crises, from the asylum crisis to the care crisis and the housing crisis. And at the beginning of this year, they resigned because they destroyed tens of thousands of innocent people with the supplement scandal. Children have been unjustly removed from their parents by their mischief and removed from home. And Mr Rutte has also lied to the House of Representatives. A motion of censure against him was adopted. The Netherlands has and will again have a liar as Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. In every other country he was scared out of politics with the proverbial pitch and feathers to never come back. But here, in the banana republic of the Netherlands, he just returns as if nothing had happened. Without any shame! He thinks we've forgotten everything, but I tell him, he's not. Millions of Dutch people no longer trust Mr Rutte and will never forget his lies and his misconceptions. The fact that the four coalition parties have found each other again, after spending more than six months each for rotten fish and having put political knives in each other's backs, is not an achievement, but a fear of the electorate, who would deal hard with them in new elections. They're not concerned with the national interest, they're concerned with their own interests. That is also evident from the coalition agreement. I've rarely seen such a freak of a chord. Terrible. A real nightmare for the Netherlands. The total surrender to Mrs Kaag's delusions. It's like Rutte was on vacation during the negotiations. Look at the plans from that terrible chord! As much as €60 billion for climate and nitrogen. More money for Africa and development aid. More shelter for illegals. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Meer Europese Unie.]] Checking. Fly tax. More messing with drug experiments. And then, Madam President, immigration and asylum. What a farce! For the second time since Rutte is in power, we are now in the middle of an asylum crisis. Happiness seekers are already being picked up in luxury hotels, in cruise ships, in road-saving care complexes, in holiday parks and still it's not enough. Municipalities are now even getting a Ukaze, a court order from the failing VVD Secretary of State, that they need to take in even more asylum seekers. And now zero point zero point zero measures to stop that asylum invasion and that immigration of non-Western immigrants. Unbelievable. What an embarrassment for the VVD! Mr. Chairman. Then care. One goes, you don't believe it: 5 billion euros structuralally, so every year five billion euros structuralally cut back on care. What crazy, I'd say, made something like that up? As a PVV, we expected the opposite. We expected structural mega-investments to come into the care sector. For we do not understand: why billions for nitrogen and billions for climate, and not for our concern? What are these priorities? Didn't they learn anything from the corona crisis? So my proposal: spend those tens of billions on climate and nitrogen on care and on purchasing power. Mr. Chairman. Surely it is difficult for words to say that the Dutch citizen is being sent into the forest with a mere 3 billion in burden relief, after years of being cut off by the cabinet? The Italians and the Spaniards get even more from Wopke Hoekstra: both 4 billion euros as a Dutch gift, because they are having a hard time. But Dutch people, who have been lagging behind for years, are getting less. And why on earth aren't pensions increased? Why aren't they indexed? What is this indecent attitude towards the elderly in the Netherlands? You're gonna drop 'em all like hell. Mr. Chairman. The new cabinet doesn't deserve to be sworn in. It will be a disaster for the Netherlands. Our country will only be destroyed further. The real problems such as immigration, asylum, Islamisation and care are not addressed. Cowardice will reign again. And we, as PVV, will not accept that the ordinary Dutchman is once again the victim of all these terrible plans. The PVV will therefore fight the new cabinet politically from day one, and every day, until they throw the ball down and we get a new election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mr Hoekstra of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also begin by thanking the two informers very much for their blessed work over the past few weeks and months. It was under their inspiring leadership, sometimes with a slight urge, that we finally came to where we came from. I have noticed, and I think the others too, that no matter how enthusiastic they may have been about some of the passages, they have not yet fully incorporated the section on the Prevention Agreement, but that may come at a later date. Mr. Chairman. I would like to continue by stressing once again that, as far as the CDA is concerned, the coalition agreement that is now before us offers a very good balance and that the balance on a number of issues is also being substantially restored. That we address the huge problems we have, for example in the area of justice, with a combination of tough measures but also prevention. That we choose to take really strong steps in tackling climate change, a big problem for both this generation and the next generation, but at the same time we choose that everyone in the Netherlands will be able to earn a decent living and have the opportunity to just pay the bill. Mr. Chairman. This balance also has to do with subjects such as education. You see how we stand next to our farmers and at the same time try to tackle the nitrogen crisis. We'll see that in that whole deal. Although I am really satisfied with that balance and the issues we are addressing, we should not be under any illusions. That all falls into a color bath of polarization. There's polarization in society. That society is plagued by the corona crisis. This society is partly wondering what we are doing with each other and how we are dealing with each other here. I think there's a great responsibility on all of us. I am standing here on behalf of the CDA and I am at least saying that we as CDA really feel that responsibility. That explains why we really changed the tone yesterday. I wanted to take a different tone, because that color bath of polarization is there. As I said yesterday, you must now go from words to deeds. It's paper. That paper is patient. We need to get this performance going. We, as CDA, are very aware that we will have to earn it day by day in society and in Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	Excuse me, Mrs. Ouwehand had already announced that she wanted to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	I understood that one was already crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	Yes. Then come Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Eerdmans. Go ahead, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	I have a question and a proposal for cooperation with the CDA on behalf of the Party for Animals. Now that we see that in front of us, of course, we can't miss that opportunity. The question is this. We heard from Mr Rutte: the aim is not to keep the livestock as large as possible. Do I understand from that that the cabinet will steer the shrinkage of the livestock needed to solve all the problems surrounding nature, climate and all these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mrs Ouwehand will have seen that we are really going to work on two of the major transition problems that lie ahead. Whether we like it or not, I think we all don't like each other, there's a huge problem in the area of nitrogen. Agriculture, housing and aviation will have to contribute to this. We will have to do this in a way that at the same time allows our farmers to continue, new houses to be built in this country and to continue to fly. That is a huge transition exercise and we have reserved a great deal of money for it. There is no choice but to address that problem, but I think it is very important that we do so in a decent way. We must take care of all the people involved, not least the great agricultural sector we have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	I will argue in my own contribution that that money can be spent better than the cabinet is proposing so that it can really be resolved. My question is about where we can hang out together. I read in the coalition agreement that the rules for hyperscale data centres will be changed. While we are debating today, it could be that the decision is that Facebook's data centre will be in Zeewolde. The CDA was also critical of this. We've seen a verdict from the Supreme Court. I do not think I need to tell Mr Hoekstra that it would be built on one of the most fertile agricultural land we have in the Netherlands. I think the CDA wants to keep that together with the Party for Animals. Is Mr. Hoekstra willing to work with me to ask the cabinet today to come up with a lead to make sure that that data centre doesn't get there? Given the ambitions expressed in the coalition agreement, it would be very difficult for us to allow it to continue today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	Let me say something about it in general and then say something about the data centers. Mrs Ouwehand is right that there is an explicit reference to this in the coalition agreement. In general, I agree with what Mr Rutte has already said here. Yes, it has become a coalition agreement which has become less concise than we might have imagined. At the same time, we have consciously chosen to allow all major issues to be reviewed, but not to the last millimeter. That's what you see in that passage about the billing. You can see that all kinds of choices still have to be made, for example on how to shape the load relief exactly. That means that you will have a big debate, or debates, about it, first in the Trêveszaal, because we really want to put the primacy of the administration in a much more explicit way than in the past period, and then in the dialogues here in the Chamber. I can only speak for myself. Over the past few years I have really tried, in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber, literally to engage in dialogue on all kinds of subjects, often touching on the budget in my outgoing role. But I have always sought wider contact with political groups throughout the Parliament. At least I'd like to continue with that myself. So if Mrs Ouwehand says 'we are reaching out to the cabinet here and there are subjects that we as the Party for Animals would like to discuss', I will take that hand immediately. Then we have to find out whether we agree on something or whether it is at the end of the ride agree to agree, because that is also part of it. I also saw the exchange of views that Mr Rutte had just had with a few other members of this house. Then about the data centers. That is exactly what I think we are saying about, namely that data centres, small and large, are, of course, part of the type of society that we have and that we are heading towards. Because those data centers are inevitable when you see what we're doing in the field of digitalization. But you have to ask yourself how that can be tolerated by using space wisely, which results in employment effects, or which may actually be rather small, and what that means wider in the environment when it comes to the decay and numbness of ultimately a very small country that we are with each other. We want to take a more critical look at that, but that does not mean that, on the basis of those three sentences in this coalition agreement, a cabinet that I myself am now a part of can go along with in that direction. I am looking at Mrs Ouwehand's facial expression, and I think she was actually expecting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	I know the CDA as a party that attaches great importance to the accessibility of the region and as a party that considers it very important to deal with citizens' confidence with caution. I do not know if Mr Hoekstra can see it coming. As an example of which you can see how things can sometimes fall very wrong, I noticed that now when making the Westerschelde tunnel toll-free. The majority of the House had said that this must be done quickly. There was previously violated trust with, for example, the barracks that didn't go through. So you'd expect such a point to be fulfilled. Will Mr Hoekstra respond to that? Why not make the Westerschelde tunnel toll-free before?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	It's a fair question. I can, of course, point out to Mr Van der Staaij those things about which we, I suspect, have the same feeling and shared enthusiasm. It is really very sensible that the Lely line should be there, that we should make better connections between the North and the Randstad and the rest of the country, and that we should also provide housing and employment, so that that important part of the country really knows how to connect with the rest of the country. I should like to draw your attention to the international transport links and to the major tasks that we want to take up in the area of infrastructure. It is true that, although we are taking a step or a step in the area of toll-freeing Zeeland, this is not going to happen for a while. Because if you have to use it every day, then 2030 or 2032 is just as good as 2032. We are taking a step, but Van der Staaij is right: we are not taking the full step there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	For my part, let me say that I certainly appreciate what's going on with other plans. He already mentioned the Lelyline; that's what we spoke out for. I am also thinking of perhaps less visible things that are very important. My colleague Mr Stoffer has often argued in favour of this, and I also see very clearly in the coalition agreement that the maintenance of infrastructure is taken seriously. However, such a point is very sensitive in Zeeland. I've already sketched some of the history. If it is said at the same time, therefore, as an example I mentioned, 'yes, but this is not an end point and we are going to talk to the Chamber', is it one of those subjects that Mr Hoekstra says: well, there is quite a lot to talk about if you should be able to speed up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	First thing first, because I recognize that. Mr Stoffer, in particular, deserves credit, because he has not only addressed the executives of IenW with questions about the meeting, but he has also often given me, as Minister of Finance, the light of the enormous importance of this subject. He has also told us before that these baby boom bridges and all kinds of roads are really in need of revision. So I very much agree. It is right that we, as a coalition, should make money for this. Then there's the more fundamental point. Yeah, I really want to. I am convinced that this applies to the other three. I want to have that dialogue and debate, in the Trêves room, but then in the Chamber. At the same time, I find it complicated to work out one thing in this debate, which is one thing that I personally naturally like, because it is no secret to Mr Van der Staaij if I say that I would have liked to go further in making the Westerschelde tunnel toll-free and say: we are going to take care of that now. The agreement really was concluded with the four of us. I would therefore like to do so in general terms, but I would also like to make sure that today I pull out the dried grapes that taste the best for the CDA and, above all, harvest grief with the others. That is what we must do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you. Mr Eerdmans of JA21, then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and then Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	I understand that part of your fine agreement, as you call it, is paid from the European Support Fund. In it, I thought, was six billion to our country. I understand that Europe is subject to the condition that we speed up the reduction of our mortgage interest rate deduction, even faster than we are doing now. Is that true? Is the owner of the house still getting an unpleasant surprise this Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Eerdmans should actually put that question to the Minister for Finance, but since it is not there, I will answer the question. It's a little different. The European Commission comes year after year with so-called country-specific recommendations, country-specific recommendations, which are about reforming, making the various economies in Europe more dynamic. For the Netherlands, a few topics can be found here year after year. That's about the volatility of the housing market. The mortgage interest rate deduction is an important, but certainly not the only part of it, and as much attention is generally paid to the labour market. Think about the discussion about flexible and fixed contracts. As coalition parties, we want to take a lot of steps on that last point and give the housing market a number of great impetus. At the same time, we have deliberately agreed to leave the mortgage interest deduction as it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB and then to Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	I have a question about suicide prevention. As we know, the mental state of many people in the Netherlands is bad and is getting worse. The number of suicides has also increased. Now I read in the coalition agreement that 113 suicide prevention received EUR 11.2 million, of which 5.7 million were structural and 5.5 million were incidental. That was based on the previous coalition agreement. This coalition agreement states that the 5.7 million, which was a structural contribution, will be increased by 2 million. Well, that seems really nice. Looks like a party going to 7.7 million. However, that incidental is out, so there is a gap of 3.5 million euros, that they lack. So that's actually a 30% cut, while caring for people with mental problems is increasing. 113 Suicide prevention indicates that next year and in the coming years it will no longer be possible to provide people with the help they need. How did that happen? Is there anything else you can do about that? That's what I'm worried about, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mrs van der Plas is touching on a delicate, important subject, and let us be quite honest, too, because that is what it is of course when people want to get out of life. We have really looked at the issues that deserve even more attention, regardless of the debate on structural money. This is about: how do you ensure that public health remains there for everyone and remains of that excellent quality as it is in the Netherlands, and how do you ensure that you do more in specific areas? That's what we did in the area of suicide prevention. We have done this more broadly in the area of prevention. I really think this is a subject that the time has come to just fix it at the front instead of having to diagnose and deal with later. That's what you can see in the area of investment in the major folk diseases. That's what you see here. What I do not know is whether this is, in all reasonableness, more than enough, just enough, almost enough or really not enough. I really think that is something for a future US Secretary of State, precisely given the relatively limited amounts in the whole budget. I can't judge that enough. If Mrs van der Plas really wants to have the space to engage in dialogue, then I think that we should enter into this dialogue with each other, without having to cling to an answer from one side or another at the front. But the dialogue, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	I would like to give that concern to Mr Hoekstra, and to the whole coalition, by the way. A while ago, I had a conversation with the people of 113. They indicate that a lot of people are calling who have suicidal thoughts but don't really need ggz help yet. A lot of these calls can already lead to help. It can make people feel heard. In the first line, therefore, a lot of good work is already being done. I'd be really sorry if that kind of conversation couldn't take place anymore. Then you go back to the back, because those people might actually end up in a relief path where there are already very large deficits. That is what I want to give the coalition: think carefully about it, because I think we can make a big deal here, even for later, given the extra expenses you would have to spend. And that might be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	Once again, thank you very much to Mrs van der Plas for touching this delicate and really difficult subject. I think we've all talked to professionals. For myself, there are people working in my private environment in this field. Then you know how much difference it can make when you talk to people about that and give people perspective step by step. So I really do agree with that. But once again, I find it complicated to say in relation to the last tonnes or a few million where it is just enough or evidently too little. As foreman of the CDA, I would really like to say: let us resume the dialogue on this, let us look into how that works and what is needed in the wider context of the budget for health and, of course, wider in the consideration that we always have to deal with each other about the money and where you set the priorities. But I would like to thank Mrs van der Plas for her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	I would like to add my voice to Mrs van der Plas's question, because I can imagine that you will not be able to judge it to the millimeters. I did dig in and it's really not enough. Moreover, every suicide attempt costs society 2.8 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	So I'd say count out your winnings. On the total budget of VWS that amount is only small beer. Then my question. I took a look at what your electorate was behind the last election. The majority of CDA voters, 70%, are 50-plus. So a lot of older people vote for the CDA. I saw that in 2017 you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	I have to smile because I realize that when I first started as party leader we were still very popular among young people. But I managed to scare them all away before the day of the election. Hence the smile on my face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	And, of course, you should also be careful not to drive the elderly away. Actually, that's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'm gonna take care of all that in the dialogue now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	That's nice. In the 2017 CDA election programme, I also saw that you even proposed a structural AOW increase of €150. Of course, that's beautiful. That is why I would very much like to know from you, a little bit as an elderly party, why you agreed to the decoupling between the AOW and the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	I would like to stress that the CDA has a long tradition of being there for all generations and for all groups in society. Because that is really the binding role that we want to play. With all due appreciation, we will never choose either the elderly or the young or the group in between. We want to connect society, because we think that the generations must also be there for each other. You can now see that the minimum wage in the Netherlands is really too low and that we increasingly have the problem of working poor, regardless of the fact that there are also some positive signs if you compare poverty in the Netherlands with that in some other countries. We have said: if you want to tackle that problem, make sure that you come up with a strong impulse. There we follow very closely Mr Van Dijk's proposal from the PvdA. At the same time, we have said: let us look at it separately, apart from the regulations, properly for the elderly. Then we come to the discussion that Mr Rutte has just touched on, namely the elderly contribution and how to ensure a relatively balanced purchasing power picture. Then it's just true that not every group gets off just as well, but we did make sure that there is a plus for each group in those preliminary pictures. I would also like to talk about how we balance and keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	I very much agree with you when you say that the minimum wage should increase. I think it's a big exaggeration. I do not think it is rising sharply in the proposals, but at least it is going up. So that's one step ahead. You say you want a balanced purchasing power policy. I don't think anyone can disagree with that. But what I do not understand is that you really are putting pensioners on the zero line, when they have been lagging behind the workers for so long in terms of purchasing power. You really need to explain that to me more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	This is decided in the previous answer and also in the debates we have had on this on a number of occasions. Yes, I very much agree that we need to regulate it properly for all generations and certainly for our older people too, because those are people who generally do not have the opportunity to add one more leg, because they just don't have the earning capacity anymore. If you're my age or a little younger or older, you can choose to work more or take another job. If you're two-earned, you can also watch how you set up your life. Let me put it this way: in many cases, you can see how you set up your life to earn just a little more. But older people, of course, are often retired and no longer have that possibility. We therefore have an important task ahead of us, but that has, of course, also been one of the reasons for adjusting the rules on pensions. Mr Koolmees has, of course, done a great deal of work in his other capacity to ensure that we make the system fairer there and also take care of all generations. That is precisely why we are continuing to index these kinds of schemes in the Netherlands. So it's not like we're not doing anything about it. It is true that we have chosen not to apply that specific link to the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mrs. Den Haan? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	Then I'd like to thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been given 300 seconds to respond to more than 270 days of formation, but I'm going to do my best, because there's a cabinet. I just think everyone here is wondering, for how long? Because Rutte IV is of course a start of Rutte III. We talked about it for a while: Mrs Kaag said earlier "here separate our ways" and we all heard Mr Segers say "it wouldn't really be credible if the Christian Union were part of a Rutte IV." Well, we are here today in the debate on the Rutte IV coalition agreement. We do not believe that this is credible. We do not believe it is credible that the same parties, with the same ideas and the same people, are now going to bring about the changes they need and the solutions to the problems they themselves have caused. Take the housing shortage, take care of the crisis, take the supplemental scandal. I did not actually hear anyone applaud yesterday when the coalition agreement was presented, not here in the Chamber but not here in the country. I know that in health care, by our caregivers, the least was cheerful and the most cursed. We've already talked about that today. This Rutte IV cabinet really stabs a knife in the back of the care as far as the SP is concerned. It can't be. It is impossible for you to arrive with 5 billion euros of structural cuts in healthcare. It is impossible for you to say: there will not be a penny for this period. I repeat: not a penny for extra appreciation for caregivers. There's no way you're not gonna do anything! This is the market in health care, which drives carers crazy, which takes an awful lot of time and also costs an awful lot of unnecessary money. There's no way you can maintain your own risk. There is no way that you can introduce your own contributions. So, Mr President, today we really appeal to this Rutte IV cabinet: don't do it! Don't do it. Think about it again. We'll talk about it again in the middle of January. Get back on it! Don't do it! If the cabinet does, if the new Rutte IV coalition hardens in this, then I can guarantee that she will find the SP opposite. I suspect that it will not only be the SP, but a large part of the Netherlands and at least a lot of healthcare professionals. Whoever will find Rutte IV next to the SP, I think, are the working people in the Netherlands. The whole election campaign was about the minimum wage. That would go up. Actually, everyone here was pretty much in agreement on that. Well, we've been waiting full of grief, especially all the people who work in crucial professions. Since the corona crisis, we know that those are the people who really have to work, because otherwise the country will really stop. And what's gonna happen? The minimum wage goes up by €0.80. I'm asking the informers if I've really read that correctly in the coalition agreement. I can see Mr Koolmees nodding, so that does not promise much good. But I still want to ask you again. 'Cause I can't believe it. I can't believe we're abandoning the working class like this. We have had a whole election campaign in which everyone said that the minimum wage really needs to be raised, but Rutte IV comes here with €0.80. Mr. Chairman. The coupling with the AOW is also released. Pensioners in the Netherlands are simply left in the lurch. Those are the people who haven't been indexing their pensions for years. This means that prices are going up, the groceries are going up, the rent is going up and all the cost of living is going up, but not their pension. So they're just going backwards. And this cabinet comes up with the idea that the little bit that can raise the minimum wage does not apply to pensioners. In doing so, the cabinet is really abandoning pensioners. Don't we have any hope at all? Do we have no perspective at all? Yes, we do. We can see that, too. It is not the case that we expect it to come from this Rutte IV cabinet, which we ourselves would not have expected, but from the people. When you read the coalition agreement, you notice that the neoliberal rhetoric is a bit out. That's profit. But that's profit in words. We will ensure that this profit will also be converted into action. We can't do that alone. We're not gonna do that alone. That is what we are going to do together with, for example, the people in care, who already know for a long time that the functioning of the market in care was really not a good idea and that we really need to stop doing so. That's what we're going to do with the tenants in the Netherlands who have to deal time and again with rent increases and who understand very well that the fight for affordable homes is a very important battle to fight. Of course, we are going to do that with the affected parents from the supplement scandal and with the people in Groningen who are still waiting for justice. With these people, we are fighting against institutionalized distrust and for a fair government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you very much. There is an interruption by Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	At the end I heard quite a lot of shared ideals. I therefore look forward to working together, even on the perhaps existing dividing line between opposition and coalition. That's from later concern. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna work on that. I would like to come back to the so-called cuts in health care. If you say that very often and shout very loudly, it is not that it is immediately true. The next period goes according to the basic path, according to the autonomous growth that there would be, 5.5 billion extra to healthcare. This cabinet adds 3.5 billion. So 9 billion more goes to healthcare in the coming period. I would say: so much for the cuts in health care. Did I hear Mrs Marijnissen say that there are also cuts in care for the elderly and the ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	Oh, yeah. I have just read that in an interrupting debate. I'm just gonna say it out of my head. You have been able to work on it for a very long time and we have had less than 20 hours to study the coalition agreement and the whole budgetary paragraph that is behind it, because that was all in it. But indeed, next year there will be minus 100 million, the year after that there will be minus 200 million and the year after that there will be minus 350 million, I say out of my head. It concerns, for example, the quality framework in nursing care. That quality framework is very important, because it ensures that sufficient people can be present on the nursing home floor. In a lot of The Hague jargon and in a lot of difficult words, it just says, if you read it correctly, that it is getting a little too expensive, because we are all getting older. Yeah, there's gonna be a little more money going to care, which makes sense, because there's more of us and we're all getting older, too. But there must also be staff and that is actually getting a little too expensive. I think it's a matter of civilisation, Mr Segers. It is a question of civilisation that we take good care of our elders. That fight in those nursing homes for decent staff has been going on for so long. Everyone who comes there and walks out will often think to themselves: what a mighty beautiful work these people do, but pooh, what a spicy work it is. We shouldn't just appreciate these people better. I really hate this agreement that there isn't a penny... we've fought for more salary for caregivers before, but we told them it was a first step. That turned out to be the last step, because there won't be a penny, if it's up to you. When it comes to the cuts in nursing care, I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	I've been watching for a while. I did hear it right. These are mandatory multi-annual contract and budget agreements in the care of the elderly and in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	No, I'm talking about quality frameworks. About ten points below.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	These were the rules I saw there. That's the cutting down on bureaucracy, less procurement. That is where money is being made, because money goes off through the fight against bureaucracy. That seems to me to be a good measure, so I could not put it so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	I understand that, but there are two things that are mixed up here. I referred to something in the same table, on the same page, a piece or ten points below. That's the quality framework for nursing home care. I have just said a few words about this. In fact, it says, with a lot of expensive words, that nursing staff is becoming too expensive, so we need to look at these quality standards again, and we need to focus on more innovation, in other words, that we can do it with fewer staff. I'm very sorry about that. There are also minorities in your budget paragraph. Of course, we are in favour of cutting red tape, but then my question would be why you are not taking fundamental steps. Then why is it sticking patches again? I think we agree that the healthcare market was not such a good idea, that it does not work. Let that lead, among other things, to a lot more bureaucracy. Let that lead to quite a lot of healthcare workers having less fun in their work. Of course we have to do that, but let us reverse the order. Let's do that first and see what we can save. What this coalition is doing is putting very punishment all lovers in care and then shoving it off on the board of the staff. That's what's gonna happen. That's what I predict to you, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	Then again: that's not true, they're not all lovers. I am discussing one minus, and that is cutting red tape, namely multi-annual contracts, fewer calls for tenders. That is a measure that was included in the SP payment account, which you also want. That is indeed a minus, and you have it yourself, but 9 billion more money is going to go to healthcare in the coming period. Well, then you can't say that's a cutback, can you? And then you can't complain about lovers, while you also have lovers in your own account and delete them in that bureaucracy. If we do something good, cut red tape, reduce the number of calls for tenders, then you would say: I am fine with that, because that is what I want myself to do. That 9 billion more goes to care, that's good. That is what the care needs very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr Segers, I find it painful, because we've only had 20 hours to study your coalition agreement, but I really have the impression that you don't have what I mean. That quality framework and the cuts in nursing care is really different from what you call it. Yes, we very much agree with you on tackling bureaucracy. And yes, we also certainly believe that you can save money in healthcare, including bureaucracy. I have just mentioned tackling the large profits in the pharmaceutical industry. In the middle of the corona crisis, Pfizer takes off with a big profit. Why don't we do something about it? There are so many ways to save money in healthcare, most certainly. But let us have the debate on that. But this new coalition doesn't. This new coalition is making cuts, structuralally, and that is also very bad, because we all know that we are getting older and that there are more of us, so that there will have to be more money to care. As long as that goes along with the economy, that's not a problem at all. We have also seen this reasoning in previous Rutte Cabinets and it has caused a great deal of misery in hospitals. This has led to the closure of care homes and the closure of emergency rooms. That is not the intention, I ask Mr Segers. But that is the path this coalition is now taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	One final comment, Madam President. This coalition has yet to start; there is still a new team to come. I think we need to talk with much more precision about how we deal with care. I am trying to give an example of the fact that there are posts on which you and I agree that there is less bureaucracy, with multiannual contracts and less procurement. That could make a profit. But what I find really very difficult is to hear every time "there are cuts, there are cuts," while 9 billion more goes to care in the coming period. I would like to have this dialogue: where else can we cut? Where can we, indeed, come with less bureaucracy? That's what the SP always says: we can cut the bureaucracy. We will. I would like to talk about where this can be done better, but with the right assumptions and not with the rhetoric that is being cut with the blunt axe, because that is not the case. Let me say again: 9 billion more will go to healthcare in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'm starting to wonder what the coalition parties have been doing throughout that period, and above all what they've been telling themselves and each other. If we are more and older and you want to keep the care at a certain level, Mr Segers, then it may indeed be that those healthcare expenses need to grow to keep the level the same. If you spend less, you turn in on the quality or, for example, on the staff, because care is of course very often human work. That is why it is very soon at the expense of the staff. That is why it is a cut in the budget, and that is why it is a bad thing. That's for the longer term. For the shorter term, this coalition arrives with a whole series of minions. A whole series of lovers! I just mentioned it. Half a billion savings are being made on youth care. You can look angry, but the Association of Dutch Municipalities is also very angry about this, because they really don't know how they're going to get this done. I mentioned the nursing homes. I would also like to mention the frameworks that are going to be set in disability care and mental health care. Those are all lovers at a time when everyone actually gets pluses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	Merci. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees. They were prepared to act as an informant at a politically turbulent time, and this can count on the appreciation of the Labour Party's group. Thank you for your efforts and thanks for your final report. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the coalition agreement. Let me start with that in a positive way, because it is good that there is a coalition agreement. It is therefore reasonable that there should soon be a cabinet and that that cabinet can count on support in the House of Representatives. That seems so common, but it was really long out of sight. It is also good that serious steps are being taken on a number of issues to ensure that the needs that exist and the problems that have been addressed are addressed. I refer, for example, to closing the gap between teachers' salaries in primary education and teachers' salaries in secondary education. That's what we've been pleading for in this house for years. It's really good that that's taken care of. The abolition of the landlord's tax: we have argued for this more often. It's a good thing that's gonna happen, too. There will be additional money in the context of climate change. That, too, was urgently needed. The previous cabinet, the Rutte III cabinet, did not achieve its own objectives. Let's hope that's better now. Such good plans can count on the support of the Labour Party. Mr. Chairman. But it could have been different. It could have been fairer, more social and more progressive. During a pandemic, you expect a coalition to make a glowing argument about what is needed in care, what we have learned from the past few years. You would have liked to hear that public health care needs to be strengthened. You would have liked to read about an approach aimed at keeping the people who work in care for care, recruiting new people and systematically reducing bureaucracy. But what are we reading? "Careers have already received enough salary increases. There will be a private contribution to youth care and 5 billion savings will be made." Mrs Marijnissen also spoke about it. That's incomprehensible. It's just gonna have to be off the table today. Mr Klaver will be tabling a motion on my behalf shortly. You also expect such an agreement that there is a fundamental vision of the future of work, on the security of income of Dutch people, in which works will return to pay and people can enjoy their old age fairly carefree. Finally, appreciation for the people who might have wanted to work at home in the corona crisis but could not, because that was not their job, for the people who kept everything clean here, for the people who picked up the garbage, the drivers, the students. But what are we reading? A really poor increase in the minimum wage and pensioners are in the cold. The release of the link between the AOW and the minimum wage is the axe at the root of our social security. You also expect less housing market and more housing, more protection of tenants against house milkers and price increases and tackling speculators and investors who take over our cities and villages. Plans for nice, safe neighborhoods. And what are the choices in this agreement to give middle-income tenants hundreds of euros a month rent increase? Teachers and nurses, those are the people who can face this rent increase. Why not invest seriously in the viability of villages and cities? The people's housing fund is just getting ripped off. EUR 450 million, now EUR 150 million and that 150 million is also a cigar from their own box for the municipalities, because they have to pay for it from the Municipal Fund itself. You also expect that in a coalition agreement there are really ambitious plans to fundamentally improve confidence in politics and that this new governance culture will mean something in the lives of people with concrete plans to strengthen democracy, but above all we see many loose ends and no new proposal. The abolition of the surcharge system has been reduced to an ambition. And how long do people have to wait for concrete plans to put an end to these surcharges? You also expect in a coalition agreement at least something of a notion, a sense, a perspective on corona, the biggest crisis that has hit our country since the Second World War. The coalition groups applauded each other on Tuesday, but it's not a party at the people's house at all. The high excess mortality in our country speaks volumes. There are thousands of Dutch people who don't get the care they need every day, children who are back home without education. While we can go to IKEA alone, the Efteling and the casino, against all promises. A strategy is missing. These are the same four parties who didn't want and dare to learn lessons from a year and a half failing corona combat, but are now looking forward to the future together. I'm rounding up. This coalition agreement reads as one major recognition that policies have gone fundamentally wrong in recent years, and that is why many tens of billions of euros are now needed to repair the overdue maintenance of Rutte III. Given the results of the coalition in the past, the real question is whether the major social problems are going to be solved. Promising a lot of money isn't that hard, making real choices is. The Labour Party will judge the new cabinet whether these choices are being made and whether they are social choices. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. A number of Members have indicated that they need to table a single motion. I'll give you that opportunity after the informers give you information. Then there will be a short second term for those who wish to table a single motion. So that does not have to be done in the first term, otherwise a number of Members regret that they have not tabled a motion in the first term. So that's why. I call Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to all the coalition groups. I have already said it to some of my colleagues, because it is a great achievement to achieve this. I am also looking forward to the solid debate we are having here today, but certainly also to the debate on the government statement and beyond. We were going to do things differently, but for the time being, a lot seems the same. The big question is, who won? In all the talk shows I saw about this, in the newspapers, but also in the Chamber, this question has been raised. Mr Wilders is here as the chickens to say: Mrs Kaag has won. That's not because he likes Mrs Kaag so much or because he likes her so much, but you can say that that's why she lost the VVD. The other parties are mainly trying to stress that the VVD has won, because then Mrs Kaag must have lost. The question should not be which political party has won or lost here, but whether the Netherlands wins. Do the supplement parents win? Do people who work in health care win? Is the climate winning, biodiversity winning? And win indispensables, the people who work in the cleaning and the garbage collection services? Politics has been far too self-absorbed in recent years. The coalition agreement is too similar to that. It reads too much as it does for everyone. But the Netherlands does not win in my view, because fundamental change is not going to happen. Childcare? Yes, fine words, in the long run it must also be free, but the step is missed to make it a public provision; so that it is not there to accommodate children because parents work, but because we want to teach children something. The minimum wage? Yes, steps are being taken. I can see that, very well, but at the same time I see that millionaires in box 2 are being offered even more space. What about nitrogen? If you had been a new coalition, I would have said: chapeau, really handsome, a large amount of money, now work out. You've been arguing about the effect for two years. I don't see anything new about handling that nitrogen. Are we prepared to buy out real farmers if things aren't different? There is no answer to that question. And then the care, in this pandemic. You're throwing money away, except for the care, there's five billion cuts. Is it all trouble and torment? No, I'm not. There are also very nice things in it, for which I congratulate you. But I find that I just have a feeling of disappointment. Where did that come from? What's that? I can tell I was just expecting more of it. What is lacking for me is vision. Now I know what you want to do, but I miss the connection between policy areas. I miss creativity, imagination. Why are these choices made? And where are they taking the Netherlands? Now I feel like I'm being shouted out by ambition and being smashed with bags of money. I know what you want to do, but I have no idea where you're going with this. It's not a new leadership. Besides, it's not old leadership either. It's a continuation of the status quo. Then I hear beautiful words. "I take the hand of Mrs. Ouwehand," I hear Wopke Hoekstra say. And, "We really want to talk. Yeah, maybe we don't get together." Guys, we've been talking for years. But are we really gonna do it differently? That's how you should see my proposal when I say stop booking $5 billion and then talk to us. That's a knife to the throat of care and opposition. Because once a financial framework is complete, there can be no departure from it. Yeah, then we can talk about the 5 billion. But we should not start with the quantity, but with the quality. We need to have the conversation about how to improve care and where we can cut back. That is why it is exemplary that the coalition should decide not to do so, not to delete it. It's just going on the old road, and that's really a shame. I think we should take a very big step in the declaration of government. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're just gonna go back to the way we've been here for years. This requires a number of things. For this coalition agreement is neither well developed nor broad-based. That doesn't make it meat or fish and that makes it very difficult. Colleagues here from the coalition say: yes, but it is on the main lines, I do not have an answer to that, while I see it worked out in the financial paragraphs in some detail. I would like to ask a number of questions. Is the coalition prepared to draw up a list of settleable targets before the government declaration? Where do you want to go and what will you be paying for in four years, or three years? Are you prepared to request a transfer of the CPB, the PBL and the SCP from the government statement as well? Yeah, I also see you can't fill it out on all points, but it's good to have a start. Everything they do not come to, or what cannot be calculated, is also information for parliament to be critical of the cabinet, where they need to take additional steps. So I'd like to see those wire transfers on the government statement. And again, the care chapter needs to be adjusted. I am very willing to talk, including about care, also about where savings are possible. But what you're doing now is irresponsible. "It's less more" has been said for ten years, Mr Segers. The care agreements that have been concluded have directly led to fewer beds on the ic, fewer nurses being present. There is a waiting list of 17,500 people for care of the elderly. That is also what is being cut back. Don't do it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to address briefly to the informers. Many thanks for the work you've done. I see the hand of the administrative master and the economist. I think they have a lot to thank you for, with all the financial cleverness in them. I have three short questions. First of all, countersigning. I have talked about this before and I have heard all kinds of confusing stories about it. My very specific question concerns the following. There are two legislative proposals on abortion. Have you satisfied yourself that if these were to be adopted, it would not be possible for a cabinet crisis to occur before the summer? Secondly, are there side letters? Have any agreements been made that are not in this coalition agreement and that the Chamber should know about? Thirdly, as regards the ECB's interest and buy-back policy, has there been a scenario of what happens when inflation and interest rates rise structurally and what that means for this expansionary fiscal policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you, Mr President. There is a difference between practical problems and fundamental problems. A practical problem was that we did not have a missionary cabinet, but, in all honesty, also a outgoing cabinet should simply respect the basic principles of our democratic rule of law. That means sticking to the rule of law, even if you're a missionary. This means that you have to carry out the Urgendavonnis for climate, that you have to carry out the nitrogen arrest, that you have to respect Article 1 of the Constitution and that you have to answer for the mistakes you have made in it. The practical problem seems to be solved, because there will be a start of Rutte III. The fundamental problem was, we fear, worsening. The Netherlands did not have a cabinet in which the people and the Chamber could have trusted, and so does not. And let that be crucial to the great challenges we face. When it comes to keeping the Earth alive, there's no time to lose. There's got to be some big changes. How's that gonna work with a cabinet where there's so little trust? Informer Remkes said, I think unintentionally, something about habits that are so hard to learn. He mentioned that this formation took so long, that it was the same last time and that we should not make a habit of it, because "bad habits are harder to lay off than a bad skirt," if I heard it right. I admit I had to google on it; I didn't know the expression by heart. The point he made, of course, isn't just about making sure you don't make a habit of those long formations. As far as we are concerned, it is mainly about the habits that have so persistently crept into the Rutte Cabinets. I also say: it's not just Rutte who took a walk with the Chamber. The CDA could do some of it before that. But under Rutte, that habit has become very deeply rooted. So the question is, are we getting rid of this habit? Do we accept each other when we have fine words about strengthening the Chamber, if that same Chamber accepts that the outgoing Prime Minister, who has resigned because of the surcharge affair and who has lied to the Chamber about bouncing away a critical MP, is simply going to lead the country again? What are all those words about strengthening the position of the Chamber worth if we accept that? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the content of the coalition agreement before us. There is a lot of money and there are a number of good points, but in the case of nitrogen and climate, for example, we have to conclude that we can solve the problems with 25 billion for the nitrogen problem, but only if we do so in conjunction with all the other problems in the field of agriculture. Then you have to do well and then you really have to settle the taboo that the number of animals in the Netherlands has to go down, really dare. If you're gonna do it like the Cabinet is proposing now, so are the accountants of Rutte III. You're gonna be a little, maybe, a little bit of trouble for a while, but you're gonna mortgage the origin. Yes, the number of animals will shrink, but there are also relocations at the expense of taxpayers. There will be innovations, but the farmers say: yes, I had to invest and then it was not enough. Exactly, and that's just what the Cabinet is going through with. And it's about legalization: companies that have never been licensed because they haven't been tested for the natural effects and that the previous cabinet has just legalized, now get the permit they shouldn't have, given the nature effects. After the Paris climate agreement, the Rutte II cabinet did not dare to intervene in the livestock sector: "We do ask for an opinion." Then there is the advice: "Crimp of the number of animals is inevitable. The longer you wait, the harder it gets for everyone and the more expensive it gets." And then one thinks: just don't run it; so don't run it. So about the 35 billion for climate plus the 25 billion for nitrogen, I say: unfortunately, Rutte's failing policies and its predecessors require a lot of money to solve these problems. But when you do, you have to make the right choices. With the climate targets, we are the midget, not the frontrunner that Rutte himself said he wanted to be. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two points about these habits. I have been talking for a while about the gas drilling under the Wadden Sea in an interruption debate with Mrs Kaag. We can see that this cabinet is trying to merge itself under the law with a word game. And the coalition agreement states that no new permits will be issued. So should we believe that this VVD dynamic, which was in force last week, is different from January, and that the new cabinet is going to comply with the law? Then Facebook, that data center that threatens to get to Zeewolde. The coalition agreement says neatly: we may need to be more critical of that. But can the VVD really do that maximum damage until the very last day? Are we going to accept that, while it completely upsets the green energy policy? Or are we gonna stick to each other today if those promises are worth something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	I'm always looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	That's her last question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	I've got two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	Excuse me. Was it one or two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	I had three with Mr Rutte and two with Wopke Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	We'll check it out, but just ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	I always like to let Mrs. Ouwehand finish, because I think she has a very nice singing voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	There you go. I'm happy to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	It calms me down in my head. The things she says here sometimes make me uncomfortable in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u69	I assume the Party for Animals also finds "measuring is knowing" and simply wants to work with facts. But can Mrs Ouwehand tell me how many soil studies and analyses have been carried out in 161 Natura 2000 sites over the last 30 years, and what the results of these analyses were, in terms of acidification and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u70	No, I can't. What I can tell you is that for 40 years it has been known that the Netherlands has a manure problem. In 2002, the purple cabinet asked for advice. That report was not very tender, and Wijffels said: this can no longer be done; it really has to be radically different with livestock farming. That cabinet said we're gonna do that, because we're not gonna make it to the targets. The very first citizens' initiative dealt with in this Chamber fifteen years ago has done a great deal of work to look at all the problems in agriculture and all the goals you need to achieve for clean water, a healthy soil, climate and nature. That passing-through, of what needs to be done, resulted in a 70% reduction in the number of animals. So we've known that for at least 15, 20 years. That's what you see when you look at all the targets. So it is not fair for farmers to pretend otherwise. All these precious years, in which we could have helped farmers to use the transition, have been wasted. I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas, it really was your last interruption. We double-checked it. So excuse me. Everyone has eight moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u72	Too bad. We'll talk later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u73	Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Madam President. It is the last day of this calendar year. It has been a very eventful year, politically and socially. It's a year in which we have the informers in our midst. I would like to thank them both very much. I know one a little better than the other, but I've learned to appreciate them both in this process. But it has also been weeks and months when I spoke to them longer and more often than my own wife and children. The same goes for some of my colleagues here. It is high time to correct that somewhat. I hope they don't take that as an insult. But thank you very much for all the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u75	We had that need, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u76	Something's being said back. He says it's mutual. We're waving the informant towards Groningen. But it is possible that he might be called back from Groningen for another job, so we're going to see it. Madam President. There's an agreement, and it didn't just happen. That is the fruit of much talk and hard work, but it has also come after months of political impotence to work together. At the same time, there is a political culture at stake in a country where there have always been so many differences. We are a country of Protestants, Catholics, Liberals and Social Democrats. And with those Protestants, you've got church tears all over again. I can tell you a lot about that too. So we know very well what our differences are, sometimes up to the square millimeters. But we are also a country where, despite all these differences, we say to each other at some point: and yet we are going to work together. We've had that moment. We are four very different parties and yet we are sitting around the table and yet there is an agreement. And that is the power of the Netherlands. That is the way in which we can be and remain big and strong. We can only grow small if we don't do that anymore. I look forward to working together and not just with these three other parties, but with all the groups in the Chamber. There is an agreement and there are elements in it that the Christian Union Group welcomes. We always say we're "thankful." That's a nice Christian Union word. But then when you look at it, you tend to wave some trophies, things that you really like. Those are very fast slogans, but I try to look through them a bit and look at who we're doing it for. That's not for your election program. That's not for your slogan. That's not for a nice political trophy. That is: for those who trust us to do something good with the mandate we have had, people who are often unable to make ends meet. The people who are really tight get more. Students get a basic scholarship. The statutory minimum wage goes up. Yeah, I'd like it higher, too, but this is the step we're taking now. The link with benefits is very important. But sometimes we also do it for smaller groups. Think of the homeless, people who are really on the edge of society. Think of the victims of human trafficking, people we can do something good for. But also think about living. That is a very large area, where we are abolishing the landlord's tax and where we are going to build a lot. We're gonna do good things. We want to do good things for people who trust us to do the same. There are major challenges in terms of climate policy and nitrogen policy. We're gonna get started on that. I'm not gonna promise you that we're gonna solve everything right now, but we're gonna get started. And not least, we're doing it for a service government. Because why was it so hard this year? That was because we have talked a great deal about a different political culture. Those may be words very quickly speaking about dualism and transparency, but what matters at the heart of the matter is a serviceable government. A government that is there for people who sometimes have no one other than those they speak at a window. Will the citizen be helped if he's in trouble, yes or no? Also "a serviceable government" can be a slogan. But it means we're going to invest more in the implementation. That's never a political gain you're gonna win, but it does mean the difference in citizens' lives. The watchdogs, the supervisors and the people who keep us sharp get more money. Access to justice is improving. So that's what we've been talking about so much, we're gonna do it now. And that's what it's gonna come down to. An agreement, that's just fine words. But we all suffer from the lack of trust that we all see. We see that confidence is low. But also in order to counter this perceptible polarisation in politics and society, much more needs to be done than just writing down beautiful words. We've got work to do. I would like to do this with an open attitude, with an open attitude towards colleagues here, in full width, but also with an open attitude towards society. We're gonna have to do it together. We will have to use this Dutch power of cooperation in all our differences again. If we then speak and then work together, there will have to be a stronger distinction between cabinet and chamber and a less big distinction between coalition and opposition. Soon the new coalition will be able to get to work. And as a Christian Union Group, we will fulfil our controlling task and our co-legislative task, both of us. We will seek cooperation, inside and outside the coalition, inside and outside the Chamber. Thus we will continue to fight for our ideals, with the courage of hope and hope of blessing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand. I think that's her last question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u78	Yes, Mr President, I have saved this for the Christian Union, although I would have liked to continue with Mr Hoekstra. But I thought: no, I would like to put one question to Mr Segers. The Christian Union and the Animal Party have often joined forces, because we saw that these free trade agreements are not fair to our farmers. And then there are a few other objections. Then I thought: now the Christian Union has had the Minister of Agriculture. For four years, he had to accept that she had to work with a transition in agriculture and that D66 simply won with: "Then we also open the doors at the external borders to products from Canada or later Brazil." I didn't think the Christian Union would let it happen that, if they start over, it would be said again: we are pursuing an active trade policy, with free trade and investment agreements such as CETA. Why is that in here? Isn't that the end of that period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u79	There's more in there. It contains the criteria on the basis of which and on the basis of which we will assess free trade agreements. It is not just about the product level or the quality of products, but also about the level of production. So this is about how we deal with nature, but also about how we deal with people. If that is not right and if that leads to unfair competition with farmers, which we want and which we ask to make the switch to circular agriculture... If we burden them with unfair competition with large-scale farmers, who mistreat nature and mistreat people, then I will not agree. But I would like to give Mrs Ouwehand a little more fighting power than she is now showing. Like we've already flipped the flag! We're gonna talk about these treaties. We're gonna judge them, and then maybe we'll be shoulder to shoulder again. Then the cabinet sits in box K, and there in the benches is the Chamber, and then we go with the criteria that are written in here, we assess what is presented from box K and we start the debate. Then I hope for something more combative than what I see now, because it seems as if Mrs Ouwehand has already given up the battle and thinks that the battle has already been lost. I continue to fight for fair trade agreements and for a future for our farmers, who are honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mr. Azarkan. Mrs. Ouwehand, you are also through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u81	Then we should talk at the Members' Restaurant at a cup of coffee, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u82	Were you planning another interruption? I'll take a look at Mr. Azarkan, because he got up. No? I would like to thank Mr Segers and give the floor to Mr Baudet, who arrived just in time. I call Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you. Yes, I thought, let me surprise friend and enemy by telling them what I like about the coalition agreement. What I think is very good is that there will be extra money for the memory of the Netherlands. That was somewhere. That's a wonderful initiative. So there's gonna be a lot more footage publicly available about our history, archive materials and stuff like that. So compliments on that plan. That's a good idea, and I'm going to support it. Otherwise, I don't know what to say about it. I've been thinking, where do I start? This whole world vision, the whole idea of course shared by the overwhelming part of the parties in this room, but also in the Netherlands, I simply do not support it. I disagree so fundamentally and I am in favour of such a different kind of the Netherlands and the world as well, that you can bite it, but bottomline is that an overwhelming majority in this Chamber and elsewhere in the country wants the migration to continue, the demographic transition, the overcrowding, that the EU's power continues, that the climate plans play a very important role in the political agenda and believes that corona is a major danger to which vaccination and QR code are a solution. I really do disagree on all these points. I want referenda. I want much lower taxes. I don't want all the red tape. I don't want all the immigration, all the corona rules. So yes, it is said: let us work critically and constructively with all parties in the Chamber. That's good, of course. When it comes to extra money for the memory of the Netherlands, we will stand up for the votes. But for the rest... I do not share the whole world view and the whole historical view that this all comes from. It's not my vision. It's really crazy to wake up in a world where you've been around for a long time. You did school and college and you thought you were kind of in tune, but I guess I'm not. The overwhelming part of the population also votes in favour and wants to do so. The people want all these fucking windmills, all these immigrants, priceless houses and all those losers in the EU who decide everything for us and everything. Apparently, that's what people want. Well, go ahead and do it. We're gonna follow it. It goes without saying that if something comes along a few times that we are in favour of, then we will simply vote for it. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the informers, both Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees. I was able to have a conversation with both of them. With Mr Koolmees that was in a different way than with Mr Remkes, but both were pleasant. Thank you for that. To the leaders of VVD, D66, CDA and Christian Union I say congratulations. It's good you guys got out. When the talks were finally about the content, it took only nine weeks for you to reach an agreement and that with four parties. I am glad that it is there, but let us be honest: if we have to wait three months for information on the formation without debate or briefing, then I do not immediately see the open political culture that has been promised to us. So I ask the informers: why have we as the client not been included in this formation process all these months? Mr Omtzigt, myself and Mr Eerdmans have put forward a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in order to request a debate on the formation of 50 Members. I wonder how you look at that. Is this not also important for democratic control? Mr. Chairman. After the proper discussions on the administrative culture, it is time to restore confidence in politics. That's why I want to give to the upcoming formatter something that he can get on with right away. That is: make firm agreements with potential rulers about the cooling-off period, the ban on lobbying and the financial interests. Write this down in a conversation report and share it with the Chamber. We will table a motion for this later. Mr. Chairman. The new coalition presents beautiful ambitions and brings lots of money, but money has not always been the problem in the past ten years. It is also about political choices and the will to guide the challenges such as climate, digitalisation and social inequality. Then I find it painful to see that there are hardly any measures in the agreement to counteract the growing lack of capacity. Of course, it is good to read that the loan system is finally being abolished, but I have little confidence that the current generation of students will be fairly compensated. 1 billion is really not enough for that. The Netherlands wants to become a climate leader. We are taking steps towards two new nuclear power stations. The parties want 55% to 60% CO reduction by 2030. Of course, that's very nice, but that doesn't make us a frontrunner, because Germany has 65% and Denmark 70%. In addition, we have a very large European climate package. But the challenge is, of course, not to look at it from the national pillar. So how are we going to improve our cooperation with other countries so that we are not opening nuclear power plants here, while Germany is closing them? We read a lot about strengthening the rule of law, but I see little in the agreement from the recommendation of the European Corruption Watchdog GRECO. The question is: is this rule of law for everyone, including those who are now being pushed back by force on the edge of the European border? Mr. Chairman. It is good that steps are being taken in the area of European cooperation. The coalition even wants to strengthen the role of the European Parliament. But in order to give European democracy real strength and further progress, the right of initiative is also needed in the European Parliament and further abolition of the right of veto in the Council. A pro-European passage alone is not enough. Policy areas such as digitisation, climate, defence, they all demand European solutions. That is why we still want to see a Minister for European Affairs, who will also keep the other ministers in mind. Mr. Chairman. In any case, we will be constructive and propose these cross-border challenges. As I have just heard the coalition parties, I hope we have learned from the discussions on the new governance culture. They will then be as constructive as the Chamber, hopefully, to them as well, and will also take the ideas that come from the Chamber, the Netherlands and Europe forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Formation Island, it took a while: 274 days. My first question to the informers, also on behalf of JA21 for your work, is: would you agree that there should be a maximum time limit for a formation period? You have all said, I thought, including Mr Rutte: it has taken too long. If something's too long, maybe we should do something about it, or else we could have an election. Mr. Chairman. We get a predictable outcome, namely: Rutte IV becomes Rutte III. So the rusty car has been started, but unfortunately JA21 is in reverse. You see, we're going left. The Netherlands voted right and it gets left-wing policy on many fronts. This will once again give the Netherlands an immigration record. We are in a permanent asylum crisis. 40.00 asylum seekers will enter the Netherlands this year and municipalities will now be forced by the cabinet to accept asylum seekers, with local democracy completely out of play. Municipalities are forced to give tens of thousands of status holders a social housing. The creed of the VVD is "building, building, building," but for now you mainly build azc's, we notice. And everyone knows: new supply creates new demand, and so on. Illegality - it has already been mentioned - it is unfortunately not punishable. In fact, the country's provision of foreign nationals for outlawed and illegal immigrants is being expanded. With regard to the safelanders who make the lives of, for example, employees around Emmen-Ter Apel a hell, Rutte IV proudly refers to the continuation of the current firm approach. That is the approach by which we are now in a situation where drivers in Emmen feel compelled to lay down the work. Mr. Chairman. As open as the borders remain, so open is the money tap to the climate. The climate billions are blowing our heads off. So these expenses are gonna explode. EUR 35 billion will be paid into a climate fund in addition to another EUR 25 billion for the nitrogen fund. Amidst all that criticism, Mark Rutte's got a kick in the ass. You received the compliments yesterday from Urgenda, so the NOS informed us. So we have to get off the gas and off the heat pump, accelerated and forced, and Urgenda was very pleased with that. The Crisis and Recovery Act, which, for example, the municipality of Utrecht has previously used to force people off the gas, is also being restored. This also circumvents the last bit of public participation on, for example, wind farms that can enter their backyard. That's unacceptable for JA21. We will continue to fight this fiercely. Then there's the relief the coalition's shielding with. So that appears to be a burden increase. We've all figured it out. Of these 3 billion, it appears that the citizens are still under the line of 1.8 billion, not to mention inflation, which we pay to the pump, the messages, the high energy bill, etc. and so on. That's where the billing comes in. Checking. That's what we do at the gas station. I think that's a lot of charging. Apparently, the motorist becomes a new milk cow after we saw it earlier at the mortgage interest deduction, which has gone uphill. Mr. Chairman. There are also some good things in the coalition agreement. We are satisfied with the proposed steps on nuclear power: keeping Borssele open and facilitating the construction of two new nuclear power plants. We are going to follow the follow-up steps carefully. The focus on undermining is also right, and the extra money to Defense makes us happy. Mr. Chairman. There is so much more to be said about care, agriculture, education and so on. That is what we are going to do, but in January we will do so in the somewhat more extensive debate on the declaration of government with the government, which then took place. The conclusion for JA21 is: we go hard, but content. We shall oppose the substance of the matter. Good plans are just gonna be supportive and bad plans aren't gonna be. The reason Annabel Nanninga and I founded JA21 is that the right-wing voter deserves his vote. We have already noticed it in this debate: in the first hour nineteen new members arrived at JA21. That's beautiful, isn't it? You'll see it's working, too. People see it, get a little disappointed in politics, but then they come back to a new party like ours. Mr President, I would like to mention my last few sentences and then I can have Mrs Kaag ask the question. We will continue with this motivation in the coming years, both in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber, for all voters who have not been heard for years and who risk being disappointed for the umpteenth time with this coalition agreement. The chance of a nice, right-wing government programme since 17 March was rarely greater than it is now, but the promises before the elections and subsequent plans were rarely so far apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. There's been an interruption by Mrs Kaag, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u89	It is a question for Mr Eerdmans. You referred at your start to a comment by Mr Remkes, the informant, about an evaluation. The trial took too long. I'm curious about your ideas. For example, I know the Israeli system very well. There the informant gets a month and there is a electoral threshold, as in other countries. Because of the fragmentation in this Parliament, I can imagine that in an evaluation the idea also arises of a month for the informant, a faster system and a threshold for voting. I am interested in your thoughts, but also in the contributions to the debate to shape this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u90	I hope you do not think it has anything to do with the other, because I do not think it was the smaller parties that took so long. That's one. Secondly, I am thinking specifically of six months. Maybe that's a good time limit to hold elections afterwards. Israel is an example of a country where many elections are stacked together. They make quite a mess of that every now and then. I am not very much in favour of the electoral threshold at the moment, apart from the situation of our own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u91	Well, in the polls, we're reasonably above the threshold you might have in mind right now. But I am thinking more of what Mrs Van der Plas said earlier. It is a very nice couleur locale of what we have here in this country: voters can feel at home with many parties, can drop out and switch again. I kind of like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u92	I appreciate the openness. You replied to my expectation. I think that an electoral threshold in a fragmented political landscape will be a very important element for a follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u93	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just need to recover from the story of the D66 electoral threshold. I remember them coming into the Chamber with three seats, so I think we should also give those kinds of parties the opportunity to continue to grow. That's why I wouldn't be at a voting threshold. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had the presentation of the long-awaited coalition agreement and the final report. Thank you also for your warm words, Mr President, this morning in connection with the report which we were able to present with a working party from the Chamber on how we can strengthen our controlling, legislative and grass-roots role. I would remind you that during this formation, including by informant Tjeenk Willink, it was said in April of this year: not only look at what a cabinet is going to come with, but also pay attention to how you can strengthen your own role, if you really want to be that counterpower. We can say that we have picked up that glove, but history also teaches us to look at all the recommendations made in the past, which have sometimes been too little done, and that there is also an urgent need for drivers and ambassadors to put those good plans into practice. That is why I would also like to present a copy of our working group's report to the spokesmen. If it's okay, there are still some copies available. I heard the former informers were already eagerly looking for that report. That is a good thing! That is the mentality that we want to see. That's what we need to make the Chamber more than the sum of its parts. Mr. Chairman. Now to the coalition agreement and the final report. I would also like to begin by thanking both the reformers, Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees, very much for their efforts. And my congratulations to the negotiators of the four parties. Today a new step is being taken in the appointment of a formatter. This brings the end to a record-long formation period. The re-launch of the coalition brings about a restoration of normal constitutional political relations. This is a good thing in these turbulent times, so long after the elections and with such great challenges as corona, nitrogen and housing. A few years ago, Mr Remkes was chairman of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. It stressed the need for shorter and less detailed government agreements, supplemented by some further arrangements between intended directors to reach the final government programme. A coalition agreement should contain a limited number of agreements on key issues. That was also the commitment to this formation. I am actually curious about Mr Remkes' reflection on the fact that this has been achieved in a limited way. What are the lessons we can draw from that? On all the substantive points of the coalition agreement, we will discuss in greater detail the debate on the government statement that we, Deo volente, hope to hold in January. It will not be surprising that in an agreement like this there are passages that we have read with approval. I am thinking of strengthening police, justice, defence, as well as many other points, but there are also passages that raise concerns, such as those on medical-ethical issues. We are afraid that the free play of political forces will take us further away from home, and we will continue our efforts to protect all vulnerable lives. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two general comments on the coalition agreement. It is striking that billions are being sprinkled. I mentioned it this morning in an interruption to Mr Rutte. I do not know if he noticed, but even Mr Klaver had a somewhat concerned face when he was talking about an expansionary fiscal policy. That's got something to say. I also heard a sniffy comment somewhere that the Cabinets came earlier with "building bridges" and that it looks like it's new motto: locks open. We understand very well that there can all be reasons for additional expenditure and we also support various additional expenditures. But all the good reasons put together do lead to a larger debt mountain, because money is just not free. We must prevent the bill from going to our children and grandchildren. We look forward to a proper passing on of all plans and also to the passing on of what this means for the family wallet. Finally, I would like to make a general comment on the feasibility of all the plans presented. That is a question I would like to ask the other informant, Mr Koolmees. It's also a question that goes back to work. Last year, in a letter on Work on Implementation, I read the following: "In order to enable implementing bodies to continue to serve citizens properly, the government agreement must be tested for feasibility before adoption." My question is: how have the plans in this coalition agreement been tested for this feasibility? How has it been checked whether all these fine plans and good wishes are feasible in practice and what this is going to mean for citizens and for businesses? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u95	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The chair keeps going down, not down to that electoral threshold, I hope. Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees. I don't think it's been easy. I don't think a lot of people expected that. I do not have an easy message, because the Rutte cabinet remains among us. I don't think there's a simple or quick way out of this difficult situation. We've spent the last nine months watching Rutte III mutate to Rutte IV. Mr. Chairman. We're gonna have to live with that, no matter how hard it is. That is of course not the happy message you hope for in the approaching Christmas season, which you secretly dreamed of. I think that is a huge disappointment for many Dutch people. It is therefore not strange that many Dutch people wonder: what does this mean for me personally, for the future of our children? And frankly, there's no simple answer to that. What we do know is that Rutte I, II and III have caused unprecedented damage to society, the public sector, the rule of law, the housing market and administrative culture. That's not a nice message, but it's the honest story. I still feel the need to express my condolences to all those victims. With those 100,000 people who have been humiliated, dehumanized and discriminated against in the premium crime. The rule of law did not exist for them. They try to survive on a daily basis. They deserve respect and appreciation for that. But we see that our young people are saddled with massive student debt. They're under stress. They're burning out. They're suffering from mental illness. This cabinet has also illegally blacklisted 270,000 civilians. Those people didn't even know that. We also see that pensioners get less money every year. Mr. Chairman. We had good hope that we could stop the fourth variant of Rutte. We thought we had the medicine on April 1, 2021, when many parties joined forces here. There seemed to be a breakthrough when Sigrid Kaag and Gert-Jan Segers turned away. But that turned out to be vain hope. Within a few days the resistance was broken. Mr. Chairman. My party is concerned about the savings of the 5 billion on care. Its own risk remains sky high. People will avoid the GP. There are concerns about the fine words spoken about inequality and discrimination, where the budget only tips. Concerns over an increase of 1.8 billion. Worrying about our elders, who are getting way too little. Concern about compensation for all the victims of the loan system. No matter how we turn it or turn it around, the expectation is that Rutte IV will chop it up. Mr. Chairman. Let me conclude with a promise. We will do everything we can to ensure that all victims of the first three variants of Rutte are restored as soon as possible and get their money back. We will also focus on countering all negative consequences, constructively and with a raised head. It's gonna be a tough time. But, I say here, together we'll get through Rutte IV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u97	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It must not have been an easy task for the negotiating parties to reach a coalition agreement in this fragmented political landscape. Since the March elections, mutual trust, administrative culture and the question of "who with whom," or rather "who not with whom," have been dominant. At the same time, we live in a country where there is room for different opinions, ideas and currents. It is nice to see that VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion have come to a substantive coalition agreement from these different movements. It took a bit long, but still congratulations to the informers and the negotiators. Thanks also to the informers for all their efforts. Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, I'll start with the sweet. I see a number of things that were also on my wish list. I will mention a few: the impetus in the housing market, the abolition of the landlord levy, the commitment to build more, free childcare, a higher minimum wage, investing in lifelong learning and in the labour market, multi-annual procurement contracts in care for the elderly and more money towards prevention. Although it is not enough as far as I am concerned, I am glad that we are going to take steps on these issues in the coming years. But then the acid, Mr. Chairman. In the discussions with the informers, I have always said that the following things are essential for me in a new government agreement: a fair pension for everyone, the opportunity to go with AOW at 65 years, for example through a flexible AOW age, equal opportunities in the labour market for older people in particular, which is also very important for people living in the elderly, so that there is a flow and an appropriate supply. And yes, there's a stake in building. But the small investments in elderly housing and intergenerational housing are a drop in the ocean and are not going to get the flow going. Then the most acidic, as far as I'm concerned. The coalition agreement speaks of a good and decent retirement for everyone. But what's that? "Good and decent" sounds nice, but talk doesn't fill holes. Let us be honest: every year pensioners are financially lagging behind in relation to workers. They have improved about 20% in recent years, and those who do not work, including pensioners, are in decline. Retirement's rack's really been out a long time. I had hoped for the good decency of this coalition to put that delay right once and for all. That could of course have been done by increasing the AOW amount, or by giving AOW'ers 8% holiday money or a thirteenth month. But no. In fact, this coalition separates the increase in the minimum wage from the AOW. A higher old age discount should give relief here, but as far as I'm concerned, that's not gonna solve anything. There is also a lack of further elaboration. Furthermore, there are no plans to make it possible to retire earlier and labour market commitment, as far as I can see in the plans, is more targeted at young people than at older people, whereas older people have more problems getting to work when they are looking for work. No vision, no plans, no structural commitment to the purchasing power and income of the elderly. Usually the acid comes after the sweet, but in this coalition agreement it's the other way around. There is investment in a lot of things, and that is really necessary. But pensioners are left with a sour apple and are again the child of the account in terms of purchasing power. Finally, Mr President. Over the past period, much has been said about the administrative culture and how parliament and the cabinet, coalition and opposition relate to each other. My commitment was therefore aimed at a coalition agreement on broad lines, so that we need to look each other up more in terms of content. I preferred a minority cabinet or an extra-parliamentary cabinet, so that there would really be dualism and dialogue on content from policy-making. With a coalition agreement of 50 pages you can no longer speak of "main lines." At the same time, the new directors will develop their own policy programmes. Hopefully, this will offer the opposition opportunities for input and active participation. As far as I am concerned, this coalition agreement for the elderly contains blanks. A plan for how to deal with ageing is completely lacking. A civilization begins with the way she treats her elders. Unfortunately, I cannot find anything in the coalition agreement which indicates any generation policy or a multi-annual vision of it, but I am happy to accept Mr Rutte's invitation to shape these chapters together. Because looking back at each other and looking forward to the future, you do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u99	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u100	Thank you. First of all, thanks to the informers for the fact that we can be here together today; that is just a brief summary. Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands and best people in the gallery. Argument in dating time, followed by forced marriage, nine months of pregnancy and a delivery with a pliers deliverance: the coalition agreement is finally in front of us. The motto of the previous cabinet was "Trust in the future." The motto of this coalition is "Look forward to the future." This fits perfectly with this coalition: exactly the same, only the trust is gone. Those are not my words, but a sharp analysis of cabaret Diederik Smit today; honor who deserves credit. Mr. Chairman. It would indeed be an agreement on broad lines, but it became 50 pages. 50! '50 shades of Kaag', I can sum it up, because I think Mr Rutte forgot to take the points from the VVD programme or the most important input that Mr Rutte had to be Prime Minister again. "Seeing each other, looking forward to the future"; BBB is curious whether the new cabinet will not only see and watch, but will actually do something. The new governance culture, the new impetus, the radical ideas: I haven't been able to find them yet, while confidence in politics and government has never been so low and the division in society is huge. The agreement does not contain any concrete measure to increase public confidence. Yes, "there is work being done on," "stimulated to" and all kinds of other rushes to improve the relationship between citizen and government, but there is no self-reflection of the attitude of the cabinet and government in the past period. Look forward: what's happened is done and no more whining. Seeing each other: the parents and children from the supplement scandal are still not fully compensated. Children are still not back to their parents, victims of the earthquake damage in Groningen are not given any certainty about their compensation and the inhabitants of the South Netherlands are still waiting for compensation for the water disaster. While there is money against the plinths for climate and against nitrogen, healthcare expenditure is limited. What does it say? "Reduce healthcare expenditure." Why don't we just say we cut spending? Because that sounds a little less bad than we're making 5 billion cuts. The new elan looks like a package of scrap metal with a thin layer of chrome. Health expenditure is increasing, for example because of inflation and ageing. We're getting older. You'll get more ailments and you'll need more care. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that. Now we're also in a covid crisis. It is bizarre that the new coalition, with the knowledge of afterwards, wants to reduce spending in care right now. Towering sickness absenteeism, health care attacks in all levels of care, too few staff, much delayed care, but several Cabinets-Rutte have done nothing with the warnings of the 2016 security services that the care was not equipped with a pandemic. Then our farmers. They're gonna get kicked too. The government wants to be reliable, but the new coalition brings forward the goals with one stroke of pins for just five years. This sounds beautiful: we are creating an intermediate form of nature and agricultural land, and that is what we call landscape land from now on. Agricultural land, the land on which one of our primary necessities is produced in a sustainable and efficient way, becomes landscape land. This serves the farmer as a food producer. If we don't be careful, he'll be demoted into an administrator of a state-owned park. What is it that the industry is given the space and resources for research into and innovation of climate-neutral technologies, but that farmers and gardeners who have been sustainable and innovative for decades should disappear in order to achieve nitrogen and climate targets? Wageningen University already calculated in 2019 that investing money for innovation is nine times more effective than buying up companies. Pay attention to the best citizens and entrepreneurs: there is not only a problem for farmers. Thousands of companies in the vicinity of nature reserves may lose their license if someone accuses them of having a negative impact on nature, while there have been no analyses of soils in Natura 2000 sites or known databases for 30 years. Mr. Chairman. I shall conclude by expressing the hope that common sense will reign before this old ship with the same captain is once again wrecked. If not, then common sense will rule after it, because we will reach that threshold. I'm not farmer-citizen-scared for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u101	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, of course, to the reformers, Mr Koolmees and Mr Remkes. I sincerely believe that it must have been a huge job to keep this marriage of convenience of four parties together. That may not have been easy, but you did it. But that it's a marriage of convenience, you can taste a little when you read the chord. It's called Seeing each other, looking forward to the future, but it could have been called Old Wine in New Bags. Mr. Chairman. Let me make it absolutely clear that the right-wing and, as far as I am concerned, institutionally racist policy of the liberal right will not find support from BEL1 for the further destruction of our rights and our society. The refusal to radically resolve what has caused Rutte to divide and crises for ten years makes this coalition, in my view, a further threat to the well-being of our country. It strengthens my party's conviction that the power and term of office of a prime minister, the leader of all ministers, should be limited. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands, which we are debating today, is a country of divide and crisis after three cabinets led by Mr Rutte. There is a division between the increasing number of millionaires and the increasing number of people who are lacking monthly to live. There's a split between who can afford a roof over his head and who can't. It is a country of crises: the crisis in care, the humanitarian crisis in our asylum policy, the crisis in education, the climate crisis and the nitrogen crisis. We can go on for a while. A policy that drives to serve the interests of a small group and not of the interests of all of us, that is what brought us here, for three Cabinets-Rutte for a long time. Rutte, however, promised decisiveness, new leadership and a radical change of direction. But the new coalition agreement only breathes the words: Rutte is rolling through. In fact, the progressive headlines are just wipes for bleeding, to reverse Rutte's previously failed policy choices. Nowhere can we find the much-needed, structural and sustainable system change that society is longing for. For example, replacing the childcare allowance with another system is not an answer to the problem that is at the heart of the supplement scandal, namely institutional racism and classism in laws and standards, in the workplace and in the treatment of ordinary citizens, the greedy enforcement of the greedy state hand. Instead of stopping the fraud hunt, the new system will also ensure that low-income families, especially in the case of non-working parents, will receive less childcare. Mr. Chairman. This torn-up country that we are debating today actually requires only one thing from its leaders, namely the courage to choose truly new leadership. It's been said a few times that it's hard to believe, hard to trust when you look at the same picture you saw before. That means, dare to break with existing frameworks, dare to follow the leadership of those who live through the consequences of our national crisis. We do not see that leadership in this coalition, but it is there. Look at the parents, young people and children from the supplement scandal, who wrote a tremendously powerful report on equal recovery. They know very well what they need. They are the experience experts, the experts, when it comes to their recovery. Look at the anti-racism activists, who not only organized massive Black Lives Matter and anti-blackball protests, but also move mountains in the way of thinking, speaking and looking at our colonial history and the way it lives in our present, even if it hurts a little. Look at the organizers of and the thousands of people who showed up at the large-scale housing and climate protests. People know what they need. Look at citizens' initiatives such as City Law, Rotterdam, Defend Noord in Amsterdam or the Bond Precaire Housing Forms, who are fighting against gentrification and are committed to better and fairer housing policies. They're already writing the executable plans for us. These leaders know that the existing frameworks do not work, but they will not be limited. They do not hide behind feasibility, affordability, i.e. priority, or effectiveness for progressive change. These leaders dare to dream. They dare to demand more than the status quo. They dare to face the deep-seated crisis and division in society. Leadership from the government then means that we will have to dare to listen here, that we will follow their example, on our way to, but also departing from equality, from justice, from solidarity. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. And then I suspend for ten minutes, I've just tuned in with the informers, so they can give intel. Then we will proceed immediately with the second deadline, in which anyone who wishes to table a single motion will have the opportunity to do so. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr. Chairman. The new impetus is not really splashing off the coalition agreement; the same parties, the same people, who have already been expelled once. The champagne bottles do pop at Milieudefensie, Urgenda and Greenpeace, but the hardworking Dutchman can wet his or her breast. The entrepreneurs who have survived the corona policy of this cabinet are undoubtedly going to pay the bill. And all that to facilitate an even bigger, even slower and even less functioning government. I'll try to name some good and bad points. First of all, the climate. It is incredibly good that woody biomass is being phased out and that more is being devoted to nuclear energy. On the other hand, however, we continue with ordinary biomass, while we now know that this is bad for the environment. We are going to stimulate CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage), while this will lead to more emissions. We are going to introduce a bureaucratic system of road pricing, when we already have the highest petrol excise duty in Europe, and thus de facto a form of road pricing. We do not think these choices are in the interest of the Netherlands. On the other hand, however, there is at last a substantial increase in the amount of money that goes to the DOD. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Of course it is good that more houses are being built, and of course it is good that they are well isolated houses that consume little energy, but why is the extended grant exemption being removed? Why can't parents help their kids a little? In this context, BVNL has long argued in favour of abolishing the inheritance and gift tax as a whole. It is a pity that this cabinet increases the tax and increases the burden. It is also regrettable that immigration will continue to be high under this cabinet, which will continue to increase demand for housing, care and training. This way, mopping with the tap is open. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the company succession scheme, the BOR, is explicitly in the government agreement. The Netherlands has one of Europe's worst regulations, so I am pleased that the BOR will be made fairer and simpler. It is also good that SMEs are considered important. So I am really curious what exactly is going to improve, because that is not in the agreement. It looks like the 2 million entrepreneurs will have to pay for all the climate and immigration plans. For the rest, there is little concrete in the government agreement on the two-year payment in case of illness, which hangs like a millstone around the neck of the employer. There is also nothing about the difficult right of dismissal, which often leads to unnecessary problems for companies. Mr. Chairman. BVNL will act constructively. We will support good proposals, but proposals that are technically indefenable will be fought with healthy passion in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u106	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the final report by the informers. Of course, I'll give the informers the floor. Let's start with Mr. Remkes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u107	Madam President, thank you very much. As we know, Mr Koolmees and I were asked by the Chamber on 5 October to accompany the negotiations for a majority coalition of VVD, D66, CDA and Christian Union as reformers. Yesterday we had the pleasure of presenting our final report, as well as the coalition agreement of those groups. I would like to thank the Chamber for the trust it has given us. I would also like to thank the interlocutors we have met over the weeks for the discussions they have had. We have seen them as very constructive. A number of specific questions have been asked. Mr Dassen asked the question: why is there so little information given to the Chamber and why is the Chamber not better taken into account in the process? We do not believe in public negotiations, especially in negotiations with four parties. You could even argue that the great openness from the first stage of formation has caused delays, because everyone then dug into the trenches for the outside world. In my view, what still plays a role in the background is the agreement that a coalition agreement will only be reached when there is agreement on everything. That agreement, of course, makes perfect sense in terms of negotiation. This also means, of course, that we could have sent a letter to the Chamber every week or appeared here quietly every week. But then we would have got no further than the communication to the Chamber: a large number of subjects had been discussed, but this has not yet led to partial agreements or agreements on subjects. I don't think that's gonna help the Chamber very much. So that very practical consideration played a role in the background. The Court has, of course, been informed a number of times by letter about the state of affairs, but these were brief communications for that reason which I have just indicated. That is actually what Mr Dassen's question was about. If the Court really wants this to be different in the future, which would not be my opinion, then the Court should make further arrangements on the matter at the time of the award of the contract and settle it in that way at the front of the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u108	Before proceeding, there is a factual question from Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u109	The report shows that the King was informed on 18 November. I was wondering if he got more information than the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u110	The King was then informed about the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u111	The feeling that creeps upon me is that I cannot support that, because the Chamber has not been informed because it is an audience, and that in a conversation with the King, who is private or in which no more people are present, more information has been shared about the form of the coalition agreement and how far one was at that time. I think it is important that what can be shared with the Head of State should now be shared with the Chamber, because we are the principal. It doesn't need to be shared with me, but in order to weigh this properly, it's good to include this in the evaluation. What was shared with the king? I believe that this information should have been shared with Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u112	To the question of what was shared with the majesty on 18 November, I have just answered. A Segers motion on evaluation was adopted in April. It seems reasonable to me that this process should also be included in the evaluation. In that sense, Mr Klaver's suggestion seems to me to be quite reasonable in itself. I can tell you that 18 November, as far as we are concerned, was still the starting point for a coalition agreement to be drawn up as much as possible. I will come back to that a little more specifically later. Mr. Chairman. Then I will be direct to the questions put by Mr Klaver himself. First of all, are there side letters? Short answer: there are no side letters. The question is: what happens in the case of draft own-initiative legislation on counter-signatures? In the case of draft own-initiative proposals adopted by the two chambers, the regular procedure is for the cabinet to decide on them. If the cabinet decides to countersign the person responsible signs the initiative proposal. The agreement contains passages on a personal consideration by Members of Parliament on a number of own-initiative proposals. This concerns three own-initiative proposals on abortion. So that's at the stage where counter-signing isn't the issue. Own-initiative proposals on completed life are subject to a personal consideration by everyone. There is no indication of a personal consideration of two own-initiative proposals for amendments to the Embryo Act. My impression is that counter-signing these own-initiative proposals is not a short-term issue, but will only follow after careful consideration in which all those involved in science and society can make their contribution. Furthermore, it is customary for different groups to decide on medical-ethical matters as a matter of individual consideration of the members of those groups. If a cabinet prepares a decision on such a contradiction, the members of the Council of Ministers can decide how they will consider it. No further agreements have been made on this matter. In the direction of Mr Klaver, however, I can say that as far as the abortion proposals are concerned, no agreement has been reached that there will be no competition. That was his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u113	Let me take a look at Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u114	In terms of administrative culture, I think that is quite right, because that is not what the coalition parties are about. That's up to the Council of Ministers. So it is very good that there are no agreements on this. My question was a little more precise. You say: we think it is possible that there will be a stable cabinet. In other words, a cabinet that will not fall very quickly. Now I have the next question. Has it been discussed with the Christian Union whether it will withdraw its support for this cabinet if these laws are passed? After all, in the past, the Christian Union has often said other things about these laws. I asked that last time I arrived. Mr Remkes was right to say: wait a moment; it is part of the formation talks. So here's what I want to know. Imagine that these two abortion laws are ready for treatment and can be rushed through the two chambers very quickly, did the informant inform himself that the Christian Union group would not then give up its support to this cabinet? Otherwise, as far as I am concerned, you cannot conclude that there is a stable coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u115	We have not come to the conclusion that stability will lead to it and that the Christian Union will withdraw its rulers, as far as the group is concerned at all, if these two proposals for initiatives are adopted by the two Chambers and the cabinet decides to countersign. Then, Madam President, the debate on the... No, first Mr Eerdmans talks about the maximum time limit for formations. I have just said that the Segers motion on evaluation was adopted in April. It seems to me that the length of the formation will be involved in this evaluation. The Chamber may itself set a time limit in the Rules of Procedure for a maximum period. In the Rules of Procedure there seems to be a maximum time limit for scouts to be given, namely a one-week period. By the way, it seems that this has never really been held up since 2012. As I look at it, my advice at the moment would not be to include a maximum duration for formation. As you know, you can also use other instruments. I think it is very sensible that this should be looked at in the process of evaluation. Then there is the question of general principles or no broad lines. That image is a bit variable. In fact, I indicated this in more detail at the presentation yesterday. This has only been achieved in a limited way. The intention was to focus the coalition agreement on what and why. During the formation process, it was found that agreements were sometimes needed about how. Looking back, that with a formation of four parties in the era with great societal challenges is not surprising either. At the same time, however, I would like to say that we have succeeded on important issues. We have largely agreed on the main issues of why and what on major issues such as climate, nature, nitrogen, agriculture, housing, construction, education and research. By the way, here's what I'm saying with a wink. Mr Koolmees and I have said this to each other in a funny way. Something has just been said about Urgenda's interest in the hybrid heat pump. Then you have the dilemma to tackle at the same time, because the hybrid heat pump is typically an appointment about how. As far as Mr Koolmees and the undersigned are concerned, the hybrid heat pump was not necessarily required in the coalition agreement. I would like to mention this example very deliberately, in order to underline the dilemma and the tension that exists in this respect. The subjects I have just mentioned will be developed by the directors in policy programmes. These policy programmes will be presented here in the Chamber. A number of subjects have also been discussed during the debate. The govern ments concerned will, of course, enter into the debate with the Chamber on this matter. Madam President. In my opinion, in the previous debate in the Chamber on the formation, I predicted that some members of the Chamber would say that a coalition agreement was automatically less concrete in general terms. The complaint from a part of the Court might well be: why is it not more concrete? This was actually demonstrated by the release of a number of members. Mrs Simons, for example, had the complaint that there was nothing in it about out-of-home children. Also from other sides came the complaint that on some issues nothing was included in the coalition agreement. Well, there you have the dilemma that is also at stake in the Chamber. Our efforts have always been to keep it as limited as possible, but the practical political conditions with four coalition groups have so often required a more detailed impact on parts. If you ask me whether the balance has been better than on previous occasions, then the answer is yes. Mr Van der Staaij actually indicated that. He said, "It's been limited." He's right about that. I would add that in the background there is a balance between, on the one hand, the desire to include groups as much as possible in the consideration and, on the other hand, a result on the main points. This is perhaps a matter for evaluation, although it is a question of organising the political groups. This dilemma in terms of working methods plays a role in the background. Madam President. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the culture of governance. What I thought was an eminent contribution to a different administrative culture, or perhaps I should say a "administrative culture," was Mrs Ouwehand's contribution. It was about the data center in Zuidwolde. Excuse me, Zeewolde. In the debate between the chairmen of the political groups, we are asked whether we can arrange this at an afternoon's notice, when you know that the city council of Zeewolde is meeting this evening. That is a real administrative innovation: that the city council of Zeewolde should be told by means of a telegram to use that old-fashioned jargon only for a moment that the Chamber, in a state of excitement together, is calling the city council of Zeewolde to watch over the decision-making that is on the agenda this evening. I really think that's a new administrative culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u116	I'm glad informant Remkes is so excited. I would just like to explain why I proposed it. Stories show up about how nationwide that data center was lured there, with all dubious decisions. And around the decision-making process in Zeewolde there is a lot to be said, for example, by the Supreme Court. So there's more to it. But I'm very happy to get the full support of the informant to say according to the new governance culture: come on, if it's a bad plan, we'll just stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u117	I would like to think a long way with Mrs Ouwehand, Madam President, but this is not how we deal with each other administratively in the Netherlands. We should not want that either, apart from the substantive consideration. This should be prepared along orderly administrative paths. You will not have missed the fact that there is a certain centralisation in the field of spatial planning as a fundamental element in the coalition agreement. There's every reason for that, too. But we are doing this in a different way from what you are proposing in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u118	I will also put it in a motion, but that is exactly the coalition agreement that was negotiated under the leadership of informant Remkes. It literally states that the cabinet will make use of the possibility of a designation if it serves a great public interest. We think this is wise. It happens to be in Zeewolde. That happens to be where the Supreme Court has ruled whether the municipality is allowed to sell the land it owns to one market party or not. Fortunately, there is another party, Land of Ours, and I know all about it, which says: we want to buy that land too. So the question is whether the decision that might be taken there tonight is legitimate. What also plays is that the previous cabinet has done rather dubious things to lure that data center there. There's a lot of resistance to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u120	If it is not in the spirit of the coalition agreement that the cabinet can give an indication if there is a great public interest served, then I do not know whether we understand each other when it comes to what is meant there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u121	There is now a debate. That is because of Mr Remkes, I say. The intention is to provide information, but there is now a substantive debate. I don't think we should. That's gonna have to wait. So I would also like to ask Mr Remkes, and I am now looking at him very carefully in order to go back to providing information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u122	If you'll allow me, one more sentence. This must, of course, be done on the basis of an orderly spatial policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u123	I shall then give the floor to Mr Eerdmans, who also had a question of fact. But I understand that Mr Eerdmans gives the informant the opportunity to conclude his speech. You're moving on, Mr. Remkes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u124	What also struck me in the debate, Madam President, are a few comments on a different administrative culture. Mrs van der Plas has made a comment on this and Mrs Ploumen has also made a comment. What I have missed, however, is that I should like to say something about what should change here in this Chamber in terms of the coalition agreement in terms of other administrative culture. I enjoyed it, because in my initial text I also had a comment about it, referring to the operation that Mr Van der Staaij and his colleagues were working on, which resulted in the report presented this morning. I've read the report, but I haven't read it thoroughly yet. Of course, I wish this Chamber every success in its implementation. With a number of subjects I feel reasonably related from an earlier role that I have fulfilled, but I do not want to make up for the disappointment in advance. Some of these comments were also raised 12 years ago in the process of parliamentary self-reflection. I have not seen so much of it yet, but a number of directions which Mr van der Staaij indicates seem to me to be able to make a real contribution to a different parliamentary culture. But it's not just the instrumental side of the matter. There will also have to be due attention in the near future to the parliamentary-cultural side of the matter, as I have observed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u125	There are a number of questions. Firstly, Mr Eerdmans, then Mr Dassen, and then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u126	Thank you, Mr Remkes. With regard to our culture, our way of working here in the Chamber, I have a question for Mr Remkes. Last night Mr Rutte was interrogated at Op1 by Mr Kockelmann. He was asked by Mr Kockelmann the following question. "There is a majority in the Chamber and it is right. There's no way around that. It may well be that that majority in the Chamber is going to vote on matters such as migration." Then Mr Rutte comes up with: yes, I got that question at the VVD-members' meeting. Then Kockelmann says: I also see that you look very bored. Then Rutte says, "No, it's not. But I get that question, about looking for majorities on the right in terms of migration, for example. Of course it isn't. Such a coalition agreement regulates things from top to bottom and there's a bandwidth. In there you try to stay together." Then you hear Mrs Kaag in the background: yes, yes. I'm just reading the transcript of how that broadcast went. In short, this was about migration and it was about a majority. So it was really about whether you could deviate from that coalition baked piece. I am mainly concerned with the issue of migration, but it is also about the next question, which will perhaps address the whole Chamber in a broader sense. Can there be a derogation from this rule if there is a majority in the Chamber on a subject that may be otherwise regulated in the coalition agreement, or does it remain with the words of Mr Rutte, as he said last night: it is fixed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u127	I honestly do not feel obliged to review Mr Rutte's words. He's about his own words. My advice would therefore be to ask Mr Rutte on that and not the undersigned. Moreover, there is no deviation from a majority until that majority has actually been established. I haven't been able to observe that so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u128	That is a good point in itself. I was disappointed in that, too. But there is a majority in terms of seats that should make that possible. As far as I am concerned, you are a little too easy, because you are the father of this process with Mr Koolmees, if I may put it that way. In this process it is about the culture of works. You do not have to answer the content, but this culture is about how we deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u129	What's your actual question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u130	I need this run-up, Mr. Chairman, to ask the following question. Do you think, with your signature under the advice that you give to us as House of Representatives, that we should work in a different way, so also separately from the four parties? I still see Mr Omtzigt two weeks ago. He tried to achieve something here, and that was voted away every time, procedurally, by a majority of four parties. That's just not good. Then we're still stuck in the old culture. It is also good if that is the answer: it remains as it always was. Or do you say, no, there's a way forward and we're gonna do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr Koolmees and the undersigned have been instructed by your Chamber to investigate a normal parliamentary cabinet and the possibilities for stability of the four political groups that are at issue. That's what we did. Furthermore, this subject of course affects a different way of working for the Chamber, a different relationship between the Cabinet and the Chamber and more co-operation with the Chamber. This has been emphasised by a number of group chairmen. I think there are a number of indications in this direction. I think that Mr Eerdmans should be delighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u132	I have a question for Mr Remkes because he has a clear view of the administrative culture. We are discussing this with each other today, in this very big debate. But while we're standing here, it's raining outside news about two important things. One is that via a Wob request from Nieuwsuur from a year and a half ago, the RIVM did speak of herd immunity. The other is that an investigation has been carried out which shows that during the evacuation from Afghanistan ministers have certainly interfered with the smallest detail. I feel that these two great things are not brought out just before the recess during this great debate on governance culture. I have my doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u133	I believe that the coalition agreement contains a few passages on the provision of information to the Chamber. That is what I would like to say at the moment. I have once said something in another capacity about Article 68 of the Constitution and the obligation of information towards the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u134	This new administrative culture concerns, among other things, how the government provides information to the House of Representatives. The debate on this new administrative culture has not begun because this Chamber has forsaken its task. On the contrary, this debate started because the government systematically did not share sufficient information with the Chamber. That was one of the subjects. So the new cabinet has the task of improving that. That's one. If that new governance culture is only palpable here in this room, then nothing has changed. What matters is that the people in the country, who have now lost their faith in politics, must find out and feel that they are serious about that other culture. There must be another basis from the cabinet to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u135	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u136	No more distrust, trust. More opportunities to participate in democracy. These concrete proposals are lacking in this coalition agreement. For example, the right to vote from 16 years of age is not included. There's a lot of ideas for that. They are also included in Mr Klaver's and myself's opposition agreement. So I think that if I see that the coalition agreement is inadequate, this is the time and place to talk about it, perhaps for the first time, but certainly not for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u137	I also have a past with this in a different capacity, and Mrs Ploumen knows that I am not in favour of it. But as far as I am concerned, apart from this specific example, when it comes to the relationship between the administration and the citizen and the relationship between the cabinet and the Chamber, these are essential elements of the administrative culture. This also applies to the cabinet's obligation to provide information in the direction of the Chamber. I also deny that there would be nothing in the coalition agreement, as it is now on the table. It does contain comments on the relationship between citizens and government. Madam President, while I am standing here, I would like to make one more political comment. The culture mentioned by Mrs Ploumen did not arise under the Rutte Cabinets. It doesn't only play in The Hague. This administrative culture has been on the table for a long time and also plays in various municipalities and provinces, also in those provinces and municipalities where the Labour Party has a rather strong voice in the chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u138	Chairman! I'm just gonna answer this!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u139	You will certainly have the opportunity to do so, but I would also like to say to the informant once again: let us not have a debate. So I'm actually appealing to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr President, while I am standing here! The first point. It is our task as House of Representatives, and we have all completed it here today. Our groups have looked carefully at the coalition agreement, and they have turned it against their own ideals and ambitions. They have made a fair assessment of what is good about it and of what we really do not think is right for what we think is necessary. A number of groups have also made counter-proposals. We shared that perception here today. I speak for myself, but so did other colleagues. With my observation of that coalition agreement, the four do not have to agree and the informers do not have to agree. My observation is that in that coalition agreement, in my opinion, in line with the PvdA Group's wishes, and also with the sense of GroenLinks, too little and too vague is said about what this new governance culture really means. It is my job, my job, my mission to be here on behalf of the people who have put their trust in me, to make observations and to hope that there will be a discussion with the four coalition parties, who say they are open to doing so, on how we can further improve that. That's one. Two. That governance culture. For a moment, I thought you were going to say that it had started in Limburg, but you seem to have gone a little too far. Of course, this culture did not come into being overnight, and of course all the parties who sit here have to relate to it. I believe that the Labour Party has reflected in particular on this. Not only about what has happened in the recent past, what has been done to the parents of the premium affair, but also about what democracy means, how to involve people. Mr. Chairman. As chairman of the Group of the Party of Labour here, we reflect, we have our own ideas and we constantly reserve the right in this Parliament to judge the plans of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u141	And you have the greatest right in the world. My advice to you would also be to raise this issue in particular in the debate on the declaration of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u142	Then I'd like to thank you. I should also like to look at Mr Koolmees. Let's clean up first. Thank you, Mr Remkes. I call Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your questions. I will give you a few more answers, but first of all I would like to follow up on the interesting discussion that just took place between Mr Remkes and the Chamber. There's been a lot of talk lately about this new governance culture. That is very understandable and very justified. In my opinion, the coalition agreement distinguishes between three levels. First the political level: the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber; no more coalition consultation, but also the information position and the strengthening of the House of Representatives with more money for support in the House of Representatives. That's the first level. The second level is about the relations between citizens and government. Then we are talking, for example, about the hardnesses, the motion for a resolution. The toughness of legislation and regulation, which leads to people getting between ship and ship, but also the strengthening of the implementation organisations. Especially when it comes to the UWV, the SVB or the Tax Administration, there is a separate paragraph in the coalition agreement on the relationship between citizen and government. The third layer I want to distinguish is about strengthening the counterpower, for example by giving the Ombudsman extra money or by extra money for the Human Rights College. But also by, for example, reducing registry rights, by giving the social lawyer extra money to give citizens who end up between shore and ship more access to justice. In my opinion, these three layers of political culture, the relationship between civil government and counterpower are all enshrined in the coalition agreement, with concrete measures and concrete money. It also applies to your Chamber: that political culture, the first level, naturally begins with the shaping of a debate as we have had today. Fortunately, I have been able to work very well with the Chamber myself over the past few years. Think of the Pension Agreement, where, with the groups of GroenLinks, the Labour Party, the SGP and the coalition groups, for example, I have been able to make a deal on the modification of the pension system. But also think of the Corona Support Packages NOW and Tozo, which many parties have supported. That's good. This cooperation pays off, and that cooperation also brings about a return to political unity. I think that is important, and I would like to call on you to do so, in line with what Mr Van der Staaij said today in his report. Mr Remkes and I were able to make good use of the reports by Herman Tjeenk Willink and Mrs Hamer, who were created earlier this summer with several parties in the house. Not only the four new coalition parties, but also other parties have of course put forward ideas about the housing market, the labour market, the climate, digitalisation. All ideas included in their electoral programme by several parties have also found their way into the coalition agreement. I hope that there will be a little more cooperation in the coming years to bring about these important developments. That's a bit of a formal word on my part, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Klaver...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr Azarkan has a factual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u145	I still have a question about the trial. Of course, it is very good and really commendable that more money goes to social law. That is what the parties said, both internally and externally, five years ago. It has led to casualties. There are really a number of people here who have been discussing the matter with the Minister for Legal Protection. It was always no. It was always no. Money's been added in the last two years. In the social attorney's office, they ran away. They said we're not even gonna do it anymore; we're not gonna work for that €18 that's what it was in the end. So it is a good thing that it happens, but the question is: if this kind of abuses are detected in society from the opposition, can we talk about it? That's the point. That's where the frustration comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u146	But I'm standing here as an informant. I stand here to explain what is included in the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement contains three layers. There is indeed also access to the law and registry rights. Social attorney's in there, too. I cannot have a debate with you in recent years. That's gonna be a really weird debate. I'd really like to do it on some elements, you know. But then it's gonna be a really weird debate. I'm here as an informant. Apart from that, I note that, as far as the new governance culture is concerned, steps are being taken in this coalition agreement. They are put both in political culture and in the relationship between citizen-government and government-execution organisations, as well as in access to justice and the organisation of counter-power. As a person, I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u147	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u148	Mr Klaver had a question about the series of shifts in care. It's about page 5 of the annex. I took it for a while. It's about four series that last longer than 2026. I've just been checking to see if they're available right now. That's not true. They come from Care Choices in Map of the Central Planning Bureau. I can promise, at least I can ask for formal information, because I am no longer an informant to, for example, the Ministries of Finance and VWS, to work out the series before the debate on the government declaration, so that what is underneath is visible. In particular, it concerns two series, i.e. the appropriate care series, which reached a certain level of austerity in 2037 and the separation and care series, which only reached its maximum yield in 2052. There are two other smaller series. The rest of the series included on page 5 go until 2026. I would like to make a promise that I will pass on this request. I think that's one of a kind from a constitutional point of view. Officials are listening. There are also parties involved in the formation. I think it's good that that information will be made available to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u149	There hasn't been an appointment of a reformer yet, so you're not done with us at all. So I think this is all about state law...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u150	I think we were yesterday, when we handed over the report to the President... I'm just a civilian today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u151	It looks good on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u152	Thank you. That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u153	I would like this to be continued and that it should come as soon as possible. There is one point where there is now a debate on when this is going to be a country. Outside this Chamber, there's a big spin war about whether it's austerity or not. All sorts of opinions take advantage of each other. We have to stick to the facts. For example, in one series, which I think is very important, that is the comprehensive healthcare agreement, I would like to check with the informant whether I have seen it correctly and whether it is true that it already has a structural cost of 1.2 billion by 2026.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u154	On page 5 of the financial annex to the coalition agreement, we look at the main points. Then you will indeed see that with the comprehensive healthcare agreement it is 1.5 billion in 2027.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u155	Exactly. So just for the record, it's going to be 4.5 billion that will eventually be structurally knocked down by 2050, but some of the series, for example the health care agreements on hospital care, so over the ic's and the emergency services already have an amount of 1.5 billion in 2027 and start next year with a small 300 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u156	That's right. That's also in the table on page 5. By the way, it also says... I do not want to turn this into a political debate; absolutely not. This is just a fact, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u157	Sure. We are actually in business here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u158	There are facts. It says: healthcare expenditure will be 88.4 billion in 2022 and 94.6 billion in 2026. So there's a difference between over 6 billion. That money comes in those same years. But Mr Klaver is right; there is also a series in it. It's a big deal. Mr Klaver was right to ask: what are the consequences of this in practice? He was right to ask. I think it would be very good if you were to have that substantive discussion with the new cabinet and with a new Minister for Health, in order to implement it in an excellent and cooperative way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u159	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u160	Finally. We're talking about a new governance culture. If we could agree on the facts, then we can then differ on the interpretation of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u161	Exactly. Page 5, I say, also for the people at home. Mr. Klaver can stand. He also asked about the scenarios of interest rates and inflation. On page 44 of the coalition agreement a passage has been included. That is again in the financial annex. This also concerns nominal developments, such as inflation and interest rates. And there's also a passage dedicated to our sovereign debt. On average, our public debt is fixed for about eight years. So before the whole government debt is renewed on the capital market, you're eight years away. So that's some kind of natural insurance at rapidly rising interest rates. Mr Klaver also knew from the time he was a financial spokesman that DNB and the Central Planning Bureau take a financial stability test every year. In it you can see for example what a very rapid rise in interest rates, or what inflation expectations mean for the entire Dutch economy. And I can very well imagine Mr Klaver asking that question when the new cabinet is in place. Because inflation has been showing weird movements lately. Think of the energy bill, for example. But you can also see that because of the very low unemployment, collective bargaining wages are also beginning to react slowly and occasional wages are going to react. There is simply no agreement among experts on whether this inflation is temporary. Or is inflation temporarily higher, and then lower again? Or is she a little bit higher, isn't she? I think it would be wise to ask about this relationship between inflation, collective bargaining, occasional wages, interest rates and also the affordability of finances in the long term. I think it would be wise to ask the new Minister of Finance, or DNB and the CPB, when the new cabinet is set up. I understand that question very well. But it's not one thing, is it? It's not just inflation, it's interest. Finally, a golden oldie of mine. As a pension minister, I also know that we in the Netherlands have EUR 1900 billion in assets. An increase in interest rates is therefore usually excellent news for the Netherlands, because then the coverage rates for pension funds will increase rapidly and our net assets will increase as well. But that is completely aside and completely for the sake of learning and entertainment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u162	This is what you have with an informant who knows a lot about numbers and finances. Mr. Klaver wants to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u163	I had read the part of the agreement and I am very pleased that Mr Koolmees has read it to us. I would like to make the following point. Perhaps Mr Koolmees will be able to make use of this again by passing it on to the officials listening in. We are going to discuss the agreement with each other in full, including all its consequences, in the declaration of government. That is why I would like to see a scenario analysis in the coalition agreement. Why do I therefore ask and why is that relevant to the supervisory task of the Chamber? After 2008 and the financial crisis, we said never again, and we want to see it coming if anything happens. At the moment there is a lot of instability and we do not yet know exactly how this is going to develop. That's why I want to see scenarios of that. Because this coalition is going to do a pretty big financial experiment with public finances. So could you go through with this so we can discuss these scenarios in the government statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u164	I can't go through with anything, because I'm an ex-informer, but there are a lot of people listening to it. Perhaps the President could indeed play a role in this. I think it's going to be complicated to have these kinds of scenarios in the short term. Why? You'd have to have an integral picture. For example, what is the impact of inflation on collective bargaining wages? What is the impact of this coalition agreement on the labour market, and hence on collective bargaining wages? So I'm guessing that such an integral pass-through would be wise. We said yesterday at the presentation that it is obvious to have it done with, for example, the Spring Paper, because you have a macro-economic overall picture that you can reflect on. But in the end it is not up to me to fill that out, but to your Chamber and also to the new Cabinet. And I understand yesterday that a lot of people are very relaxed about that, you know. So they understand very well that the Chamber needs this information. But I'm not in charge of that. I would suggest that we simply include this in the debate on the declaration of government and ask this question there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u165	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u166	Yeah, I'm moving on. I have two more points, Mr President. Mr Van der Staaij quite rightly asked about an important point: the feasibility of all the plans included in the coalition agreement. In the process we also paid a lot of attention to the feasibility, for example by inviting the Tax Administration, the UWV, the COA and the IND to the formation table. That is what we have done to hear with the negotiators what is going on in practice, what can and cannot be done and what choices need to be made. That's the first step. In addition, the coalition agreement decided to extend WaU, Working on Implementation, for 600 million euros until 2030, precisely to invest in ICT, in human size, in personal services. So that is included in the coalition agreement. In addition, additional funding has been allocated to the stable financing of COA and IND, for example. With this you can also see that there are literally hands and feet given to more space for execution. In the texts of the coalition agreement, in its elaboration, it is also very often said that feasibility is an important point. The Bosman Commission, the TCU, the Temporary Committee for Implementation, is very prominent in the coalition agreement, with introduction tests, with execution tests. It also talks with the implementing organisations about what can and cannot be done and, if so, about what period. That is my final point. I said yesterday on the offer that we should start from realism. A lot of execution organisations . look at the Tax Administration, look at the UWV. can't make all these system changes at once. This means that you may have to wait a few years before it is possible in the execution. Yesterday we drew attention to this, including from your Chamber, in order to be realistic about it. It can't all be done in one go. Not everything can happen at the same time. So our strict advice is to consult with UWV, Tax Administration, SVB and DUO, to think carefully about what can and cannot be done and, if so, when. Along that line, four points, we have tried to pay a great deal of attention to the implementation of the coalition agreement. Finally, Mr President. This is probably the last time I'll be allowed to appear in your room. There could be all kinds of developments in the next week, but I'm assuming this is my last time here. That is why I would like to thank you, Madam President, and all the people in the Chamber for eleven years of kindness and suffering: the messengers, the Service Report and Editorial, the support, the people of the restaurant. Thank you all very much. I always thought it was a very hot bath. And yes, I'm gonna do something else. What, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u167	Thank you. Finally, I was not yet ready. From this point on, I would like to thank all the officials, especially those of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also our officials during the formation and the officials of UWV and SVB for all their hard work. I call upon you to be careful of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u168	Thanks on behalf of the House of Representatives to both informers for their energy. I think a lot of things have already been said about it. We're glad there was white smoke at last. We're moving on to the second term now. I'll see if there's a need. I am looking at Mr Wilders. Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr President, thank you very much. Four motions. The first concerns care: no cuts in care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that cuts in care are unacceptable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u170	A second motion, Madam President, on the funds. 60 billion for climate and nitrogen. As I said in my term of office, as far as PVV is concerned, they must be spent on purchasing power and care. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that billions of funds for climate and nitrogen are being harnessed;]] [[points out that these should be replaced by billions of funds for purchasing power and care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u171	Finally, Mr President, another motion on ic capacity. If we're gonna spend so much money, we'd rather do this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls for a structural increase in ic capacity to a minimum of the average in European countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u172	Finally, Mr President. The whole input of me in my first term: it is a disaster for the Netherlands if the coalition that these informers have been working on will actually be implemented and will take place in subject-K. Her mischief knows no bounds. New elections are the PVV is consistently needed. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is further destroyed by the malpractice of care, immigration and asylum of the future Rutte IV cabinet;]] [[points out that new elections are desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u173	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u174	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed one point in the Chamber on Tuesday. Then came the request of several coalition parties to table a motion on this matter today. And then I'm not the worst, of course. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement is provided for only a limited transfer, based on an outdated level of inflation;]] [[Whereas high inflation creates considerable financial uncertainty for households;]] [[noting that the Nibud may reflect purchasing power for different types of households;]] [[calls on the Nibud to pass on the coalition agreement on the basis of the prepared start note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u176	We have already made a request in the scheme to receive this transfer in good time, preferably a week before the debate on the declaration of government, so that we can study it. I have another motion, which is also about the care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, among other things, the corona crisis calls for more investment in care than less;]] [[Considering that the coalition agreement provides for a billion-dollar reduction for care, which will already be reduced in the next cabinet period, including nursing care and youth care;]] [[points out that reductions in care are undesirable in the coming cabinet period and that, in any case, a fundamental debate on the quality and affordability of care should first be held,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mr. Chairman. It is now clear, even to the informers, that I do not like vagueness. Hence this motion, along with Mr Klaver. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the General Court advises to establish a clear link between policy plans and concrete settled objectives;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement still lacks concrete goals that can be settled on important issues;]] [[calls on the reformer to formulate, prior to the debate on the government declaration, concrete checkable targets for the upcoming cabinet period that can be monitored annually by the SCP, PBL and CPB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u178	There's always something like zero measurement. It starts with the coalition agreement. We would like to see the accounts and the goals of this and then we hope that they will also come in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u179	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I'll look at Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u180	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the informers for their reply. I would like to thank Mr Koolmees in particular for his excellent cooperation over the last few years. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current corona crisis has shown once again the importance of good accessible care;]] [[believes that the heroes of care deserve more than just applause;]] [[Considering that in the coalition agreement a reversal of EUR 4.8 billion per year has been made available to the care sector in relation to the baseline path;]] [[believes that it is important to look at the content of how care can be strengthened and how care costs can be managed, but that this discussion cannot be opened if the budgetary revenue of EUR 4.8 billion has already been committed in advance;]] [[calls on the reformer to remove this structural reversal of EUR 4.8 billion from the books,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u181	In addition to Mrs Ploumen. We have tabled a motion together to ensure that there are clear, checkable targets, so that we can follow what the cabinet is doing in the coming years. We would also like to pass on all the plans to the government statement. I understand that it cannot be completely complete, because not everything has been worked out, all the understanding for it, but then we also have a better view of what needs to be worked out. I cannot ask the reformers to do that now, but I would like to hear from the coalition parties whether they are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u182	If we really have a formatter after the vote, then I can pass on the information requests that have been there and the motions. I think that's the most practical thing. Then that's how we're gonna do it. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u183	Thank you, Mr President. It is very unusual, but the Animal Party has a motion which aims to ensure that the new coalition agreement is simply implemented in advance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the planned construction of a huge data centre in Zeewolde overtakes sustainable energy supply, fertile agricultural land and scarce freshwater supply;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement states that, where the public interest so requires, the cabinet will make use of the possibility of giving an indication to the co-governments;]] [[Notes that opening a data centre in Zeewolde at the end is not in the general interest and is contrary to what is included in the coalition agreement on data centres and good spatial design;]] [[states that if the municipality of Zeewolde decides to establish the data centre, the (new) government must provide an indication to counter this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u184	This motion was co-signed by very constructive colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Let me look at Mr Baudet: is there still a need for a deadline? It doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u186	I was actually enjoying myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u187	We shall leave it at that and I shall give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. Mr Dassen is just getting off his feet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that confidence in politics is falling;]] [[noting that the Council of Europe's anti-corruption watchdog GRECO has for years found that the Netherlands does not have sufficient binding measures to combat corruption and ensure integrity;]] [[noting that the outgoing cabinet is proposing a number of measures to reduce the possibility of taking the revolving door for directors;]] [[Whereas these measures do not ensure that potential directors will not make effective use of the revolving door or leave lobbying activities beyond their former ministry;]] [[calls on the reformer, in consultation with potential directors, to ensure that prior to the appointment of the new directors, they observe the ban on lobbying for the old ministry and adjacent policy areas, the ban on turning doors and the cooling-off period with mandatory advice and require them to allow the self-assessment integrity of directors to be taken, to record this discussion in writing and to report back to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like a ruling from the Chamber on the appointment of the cabinet in which municipalities are forced to receive asylum seekers, namely 2,000. In view of the urgency of the matter, I would like that to be voted on in favour of the Christmas celebrations. That can be done at the votes that we are going to have tonight. I notice, by the way, that this designation never concerns a municipality of Laren or Blaricum or an area around Huis ten Bosch. It's always Rotterdam, Gorinchem, Venray; those cities. It's special. Things are rolling out now, so it's time for a verdict. It's, I think, the last chance for the House of Representatives to block this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is forcing a number of municipalities and regions to receive asylum seekers;]] [[noting that this would put local democracy out of play;]] [[Whereas this is not acceptable;]] [[calls on the government not to impose pressure on municipalities and regions to receive asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u190	(NL) Mr President, one final comment on my final point. This isn't a threat. I wouldn't call it that, but JA21 has three seats in this room and seven on the other side. I know the coalition across the street is six short. So keep an eye on JA21, I'd like to say. We are putting that wish down here, but we are not doing so for the sake of the cause. Maybe there's potential in that. Perhaps the parties gathered here around this agreement could take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u191	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have one motion, also because it is not quite clear to me what is going on here. Mr Klaver also mentioned this. Of course, we no longer have a deadline on the part of the intended informant, so I thought: then it would be best to table a motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement has not yet been passed on by the Central Planning Bureau (CPB);]] [[Whereas a transfer is necessary and provides a relevant insight into, for example, purchasing power effects, budgetary impacts and impact of the coalition agreement on public finances;]] [[whereas not all plans have yet been fully drawn up, but many proposals have been formulated in concrete terms;]] [[points out that the CPB should be asked to pass on the coalition agreement as far as possible and to conclude it before the debate on the government declaration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the informers for the answer. I have two brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new cabinet aims to speed up the resolution of the childcare allowance affair;]] [[Whereas this cannot be achieved without input from the affected parents and children;]] [[points out that parents and children will have a full role in the implementation of the recalibratement, execution and healing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a democratic society can only function if everyone participates and combats discrimination, and that there is no place for Muslim hatred;]] [[calls on the government to develop a plan to combat Muslim hatred,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-91]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pensions have not been indexed for more than 10 years;]] [[noting that this has led to an enormous deterioration in the purchasing power of pensioners;]] [[noting that workers have improved about 20% while pensioners are down 1%;]] [[Whereas this income gap between workers and pensioners should be closed;]] [[noting that the separation of the minimum wage and the AOW represents a further deterioration in the purchasing power of older people;]] [[points out that letting go of the link between the minimum wage and the AOW is undesirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u195	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Bosman Commission writes that a rapid test of feasibility of agreements made can help in the coalition agreement;]] [[noting that the implementing bodies have written to the informant that they are capable of such a rapid test;]] [[whereas a large number of issues have been worked out in the coalition agreement and can therefore be assessed by means of an implementation test;]] [[calls on the reformer to ensure that the government declaration is subject to such an execution test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Ploumen, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Haga, Mr Simons, Mr Dassen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u197	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Clearly, BBB has a lot of concerns about the future of our safe, sustainable, affordable and always available food production. In the climate drift we are now in danger of taking decisions, of which we will say in 20 or 30 years' time: what have we done? Green nitrogen will soon be exchanged for grey nitrogen. That sounds vague to the layman, but actually it's very simple: nitrogen produced by agriculture is part of a green cycle; we get food back for that. That's very nice, because without food, you're gonna die. Grey nitrogen, emitted by industry, only emits. Many farmers have explained this to several MPs in the past weeks with their nitrogen cart here outside the House of Representatives. A great deal of appreciation for that, and a great deal of appreciation for the Members of Parliament's listening ear. Mr. Chairman. During the formation I regularly read in the media what the forming parties had eaten. On the last day of the formation, I read in the media in the morning that dinner had been ordered. Food was also important during formation in order to function. That's a truth like a cow. Food is also at the heart of Christmas. My concern is that food is so self-evident that we no longer look into what farmers, gardeners and fishermen all have to do to provide us with healthy food every day. That is why I would like to offer the four group chairmen and Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees the BoerBurgerBook, with 21 personal stories from farmers, gardeners and one North Sea fisherman, in which they tell this. Read, learn, and appreciate. And remember: knowledge leads to understanding; understanding leads to acceptance; acceptance leads to existence. I wish everyone here, and all the people at home, a very, very merry Christmas, with hopefully the people you all love around you. And before 2022 I wish you no happiness; I wish you health, because with health comes happiness itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u199	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. We will distribute your book through the messenger. Thank you on behalf of those who receive the book. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Simons, BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Rutte III cabinet has offered its resignation on account of the childcare allowance scandal and that the Rutte IV parties owe credit to the victims of this scandal;]] [[noting that there is still no external and independent study of the children who have been removed from home and that the proposed study is not independent;]] [[noting that the removals and the report (equal) worthy restoration are not included in the coalition agreement, but that the President of the Second Chamber has offered the report (equal) worthy restoration to the Chamber and has asked it to reflect on its content and welcomes the invitation of those concerned to provide further explanations;]] [[calls on the four parties to present an addendum to the agreement before the government declaration, which addresses children who have been removed from their homes, external independent research and the implementation and promotion of the report (Equal Recovery) among the parties concerned, such as municipalities and the VNG,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the coalition agreement speaks of the ambition to keep care affordable;]] [[Whereas FNV, BGZJ, MIND and Defence for Children have already expressed their opposition to the introduction of their own contribution to the specialised youth assistance, as it may lead to care avoidance, worsening of complaints, heavier requests for assistance, an increase in forced recordings and crisis treatment, and unnecessary administrative costs;]] [[noting that the own contribution in the adult ggz was abolished in 2013 for precisely the above-mentioned reasons;]] [[Whereas the introduction of an own contribution to youth care can also contribute to increasing (opportunity) inequality;]] [[points out that no own contribution should be made to youth care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-95]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Den Haan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u201	And chairman, a very short one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are no direct democratic instruments in the Netherlands to elect or remove a prime minister from office;]] [[Whereas it is in line with the democratic rule of law that an individual's term of office is limited in the country's main dominant position;]] [[points out that the duration of the covering of the prime ministership by an individual should be limited to a maximum of two terms or eight consecutive years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. The first concerns the charging of climate costs for SMEs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are several measures in the coalition agreement relating to the climate and the costs of which are passed on to SMEs;]] [[calls on the reformer to ask the Planning Office for the Environment to pass on the costs and benefits of climate action to SMEs, and to send the results to the Chamber before the debate on the Government Declaration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u203	The second one is about the line pressure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coalition parties aim to reduce regulatory pressure for SMEs;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to reduce the regulatory burden for SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u204	Once again, I would like to thank the informers, who are no longer there, for saying: Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees. I thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people at home. We're going to vote tonight on the motions that have been tabled. In conclusion, there is another question from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u205	Yes, well, Mr. Chairman, actually an announcement. We're heading towards the kerstreces, but I think it would be good if we could have another factual round on the coalition agreement. So I want to start an e-mail procedure later through the Finance Committee to ask the reformer to answer actual questions when the ministerial team is installed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u206	Thank you. And even if we voted on the motion and we formally have a formatter. Thank you very much. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u207	We must, of course, wait for the cabinet to arrive, but I assume that the debate on the declaration of government will take place in the first week after the recess. Can you say anything about that, as far as you know? I think it would be good for a lot of colleagues to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u208	I get that. It's a fair question. It will be the first week after the recess, if it all succeeds procedurally, because there may also be some passages from the Chamber to the cabinet. It's possible. This means that colleagues must be sworn in. Things have to be sorted out. So it's the first week after recess or the next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u209	Okay. My question is, if you knew that during the recess, to communicate it in good time, even if it is in the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-6.u210	Yes. A fair question; that's what we're going to do. Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall suspend the sitting until 7:00 p.m. and then proceed with a number of two-minute debates.
