ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u1	I will reopen the debate for a short third time. After this third deadline, the votes on the bill and the motions will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to my colleagues for giving me leave for this short third term. You have to be very economical with that, but sometimes a letter from the Secretary of State also gives new insights. The letter of the Secretary of State dated Friday 2 July, in which she addressed my motion under number 35668, letter E, indicated that the motion can be read in two ways. The first interpretation deals with the double counting of CO in biomass. The second interpretation would be that biomass should no longer be used for security of supply. Well, let me reassure the Secretary of State: the second interpretation is not on the table. Of course, the government must provide security of supply. The main problem, however, is the wide range of options mentioned. If there is an electricity shortage, Germany can supply it. My group believes that this is unthinkable, because then the polluting lignite plant will be used for our deficits. It can also be co-fired with coal or gas, but that results in CO emissions. And biomass can be fired and that brings us to the first interpretation, in fact double counting. CO would be allocated in the country where biomass is harvested, read: trees are harvested, and again counted in emissions in the Netherlands. I understand that this could lead to confusion. We've had enough confusion in these harsh times. However, I would also like to make it clear that any lack of clarity about the use of woody biomass must be eliminated. That is why I would like to change the operative part of the motion so that it is clearly clear that the choice of biomass is not used to meet the standards without actually achieving reduction. 'Cause then we'd be creating opportunities for shuffle biomass. The motion now calls on the government to stay far from it, including the new European measures that will come under the Fit for 55 package. Hence the next amended motion. Mr President, may I recite it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u4	Yes, you may. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u6	The motion Schalk c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government intends to achieve CO reduction by using only 35% of coal-fired power plants' capacity;]] [[Whereas this measure may create capacity shortages which can be eliminated by, inter alia, heating biomass;]] [[noting that biomass combustion emissions are not included, thus not achieving the actual reduction of CO;]] [[calls on the government not to rely on large-scale low-quality use of wooded biomass streams in the definition of policies to address capacity shortages and other climate measures, which are unclear about the actual contribution to the reduction of national and European CO emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Schalk, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Gerkens, Mr Kluit, Mr Crone, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Dessing, Mr Prast and Mr Baay-Timmerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate - Climate and Energy, after she sees the cathedral in front of her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesdays I was allowed to visit you all the time. When I made the joke "next week again" last week, I didn't know that third terms could occur here. Thanks again for the invitation. Thank you, too, for changing the motion. I think what's said to it is a lot clearer now. It might be good to say how I read and interpret the motion and what I'm going to do. Then we'll see if that still matches the intentions of the proposers. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that government-funded by- and mostly biomass can only take place with certified woody biomass, then we can leave this motion to the House's discretion. Maybe a little more context is nice for the proposers. In the event of capacity shortages, the market itself determines how they are to be eliminated or addressed. For energy producers, the market price of raw materials is then the most guided by that consideration. That is where the government has limited influence, given the way in which the European energy market is regulated and regulated, but we have used our own frameworks. If I read it correctly, that is the intention of the proposers of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I couldn't have put it better than the Secretary of State. It is true that we are very clear that it is about certified wood and not about uncounted wood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u12	Then I guess we're just out of the loop, and then I'm looking forward to a fourth term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u13	You're gonna have to hold onto that for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u14	We're about to vote on the amended motion.
