ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SGP, I want to take the lead. If I manage to curb my enthusiasm enough, I would like to pass on the stick to Mr Bishop for his contribution. Mr. Chairman. There is much wisdom in the Bible book Proverbs. One of these wise advices is: "...to open the mouth to those who are not heard. For the trial of all those who are defenseless. To judge with justice and justice to the poor and needy." Those are wise words, which also touch the domain of Justice and Security when it comes to providing justice and justice. The SGP is grateful for recognising the need to invest structuralally in safety. We are not there yet, but it is important that these steps are also taken in the whole of the chain. There are also cases that can't be solved with a bag of money. Security in neighbourhoods and a robust criminal justice chain also stand or fall with sufficient human strength. Our call is also to continue to invest and invest more in training capacity, ICT support for police, judiciary and other partners in their important work. And also by keeping that work attractive in the safety chain, also by providing it with good equipment. When it comes to standing up for people in trouble, for vulnerable people, it is important that criminals know that crime does not pay and that victims of, for example, fraud and scams are actually reimbursed, so that they do not get into even bigger problems. I recently received a message and I understand that this is not on its own from someone who was €30,000 taken away by interns. The perpetrators circumvent the reimbursement, which they have been ordered to do in court, by serving replacement custody or staying under the radar. This man has no message about this; he has been working for ten years to repay the debt he has. My question is therefore: how can the Minister ensure that sanctions are fully, effectively and quickly implemented, especially in situations of this kind, where vulnerable people are at a disadvantage? Internet crime is much wider. This is also a threat that we must not look away from. We have already discussed cybercrime in various debates. Just now that we are talking about the rule of law, my question is how we can best protect the institutions of the rule of law, police, justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office, for example, against cybercrime. This vulnerability is also more widespread in society, we have seen in recent times. We would therefore like to draw particular attention to the protection of the institutions of the rule of law against cybercrime. Finally. There are also various websites hosted from the Netherlands on which sexual abuse of children is shared and where there is also a platform for illegal prostitution. We must also stand up for these victims and stand up for them. What more can be done to facilitate the removal of websites that share these images and services and to address distributors of those images? This too is a subject that we have been discussing for a very long time. We would like to see further progress in this area, in particular in the protection of vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to your colleague, Mr Bishop, also to the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr President. It is very pleasant, as a colleague from a one-man group said last week, if you have a larger group, because then you can divide the tasks a little bit. That's why. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to be the first to dwell on the issue of adoption. Preventing mistakes is not solved by stopping protecting children. The SGP Group is concerned that prospective adoptive parents have been under strain since this decision or that international adoption will ever be possible again. My specific question to the Minister is: what is the Minister going to do to bring underprivileged children, who are eligible for adoption, into contact with Dutch adoptive parents? Can they be heard, too? At the point of the police, I'd like to stay a little longer. Last weekend we were reminded again of the importance of a strong police force. First of all, a word of thanks to all those who guard our security. It is completely unacceptable that the police should be locked in by rioters. The police warns in its position paper that it is going to have problems with the current budget to carry out the tasks now and in the future. What steps does the Minister take to ensure that the police carry out their duties in order to continue to deal with today's and tomorrow's problems? The SGP very much welcomes the reinforced approach to undermining crime, but the drugs problem in the outside world also requires extra attention. Police deployment is urgently needed to prevent further expansion of drug networks. In the current division of district agents, this does not receive sufficient attention and we are constantly following the facts. I have had an exchange of views with this Minister on this matter before. One district agent per 5,000 inhabitants, as required by the law, means that in the outskirts there is one district agent for a number of villages. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the possibilities for more balanced distribution of district agents in the capillaries of society in the outlying regions? Then the point of anti-Semitism. Two weeks ago, we commemorated the Kristall Night. It is then painful to see that at the commemoration a lot of police are present around the synagogue. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is surprised that the appointment of the National Coordinator against Anti-Semitism has not been extended. It is very important that the fight against anti-Semitism is not shredded. Will the Minister extend the appointment of the National Coordinator Anti-Semitism? And can he promise that this will not be placed with the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism? Finally, asylum and migration policy. The asylum influx has taken a high flight. That influx is so high, we can't actually handle it anymore. We can rightly speak of an asylum crisis. The SGP therefore makes a number of proposals for a merciful and just policy. First of all, close the borders for people who are safe in other countries. We don't have to let them in, and that way we can help the real refugees. Is the Secretary of State prepared to close the borders now, to regain control over who comes in and help the people who really need it? Secondly, invest in the asylum chain. The shelter is bulging, the chain is clogged and the cabinet wants to cut back on the execution. That logic escapes us. The screening of the asylum chain shows that investment is needed. That's why I have two questions. How should the IND and the COA live with less money in the coming year when the current influx continues? Does the Secretary of State agree with the SGP that structuralally there should be a large bag of money to the implementing organisations and, if so, how much money would be needed to implement the recommendations of the screening? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Podt and Mr Valstar for their maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. The judge is in our society the last place you can go for an independent judgment. This is crucial and very relevant, especially in a society where an increasingly large group of people are struggling to respond to rapid developments. Because with about 20% of the Dutch population, something has to go wrong, such as job loss, divorce, debt or an unfair government, and they lose their grip on their lives. Those people deserve protection. This is a quote from a judge that was pronounced a few years ago, when the court looked into and identified the importance of justice. I liked sharing that. Mr. Chairman. If we look at access to justice, then we can't really ignore the surcharge scandal. Of course, we have seen tens of thousands of parents and their children make life impossible for the government. They lost everything, their income, their dignity and some also their children. Suicide attempts have been made and even the Dutch have fled. I wondered about the role played by justice in this. What about their access to justice? We saw in the report not for nothing unprecedented injustice; they have been wronged unprecedentedly. That report said that the Chamber was unable to carry out its controlling task properly because we were informed in an immemorial or even incorrect manner. It was also stated that the government attached more importance to the politically desirable outcome than to helping the parents. Of course, we have a Minister for Legal Affairs. I actually thought he'd find something about that at some point. Maybe I missed that deltaplan access to justice; I didn't really see it. I am glad, however, that there has been self-reflection from the Council of Justice. Last week we had a discussion with the President, Mr Naves, who said that there was no de facto rule of law for the victims of the surcharge affair. I really let that work on me. Families had to fight against a much more powerful government. An unfair battle, where justice did not always provide the protection that these parents deserved. He also apologized. Mr. Chairman. The core was the lack of legal aid. That led to bad litigation. One of the recommendations in the report was therefore to make the legal aid financed easily accessible and affordable at the time of the appeal and appeal in the case of premium cases and other issues relating to the security of existence. How does our Minister for Legal Protection view this? I insist: it is the Minister for Legal Affairs. I have been quite critical of this in the past, because I sometimes had the impression that he was undermining legal protection. I'd like to remind him of that once in a while. I am also considering a motion on this point, together with Mr Van Nispen. Mr. Chairman. In preparation for this debate, I looked again at what the Minister for Justice said about the surcharge scandal, but I saw that Mr Grapperhaus said something about it at a reading. He said: "This rule of law has finally proven itself to be the rule of law because the failure has been pronounced and analyzed out loud, and there has been and is being taken action on it: from regulatory adjustment, improvement of implementation processes to, in particular, that satisfaction for the victims." This is really half true. I do not think there was a single victim in that room, because they would have contradicted this immediately. That satisfaction is really where it's really pinching right now. I think we will have another debate on this in a few weeks' time, but you cannot say that that satisfaction has been dealt with, that is simply not the case. One wonders how it is possible for the government to be organised in a democratic rule of law in such a way that, through discrimination on nationality and income, it has deprived the most vulnerable citizens of their rights and left them to their fate. What kind of rule of law is this, I ask the Minister for Legal Protection? Can the Minister reflect on this? Somewhere I was reminded of 2017, that interview with that VVD's Fred Teeven. You know him: today, driver, at Connexxion, I think, one day a week. He said in 2017: if you don't give a lawyer too much time to spend on a client, it won't be that much with that defense either. I thought, "Would this be just policy?" In particular, is it VVD policy to deliberately deny citizens access to justice? I have often been convinced in debates with this minister that he felt that people were looking for the judge too soon, that he felt that lawyers were too often directing legal proceedings. Like they can't make that trade-off. What I really do not agree with is that this minister will want to decide, through a committee, who will have access to the judge and who will not. Mr. Chairman. Then something about algorithms, because I really ask myself once in a while where it goes with our society. I get the strong impression that we are going to a kind of surveillance society, where mistrust and distinction are going to prevail. The Netherlands is world leader in this field. The group of DENK believes that the use of algorithms, risk classification models should be more transparent. That needs to be monitored more closely, and it really needs to be monitored. We are concerned about the impact that technological developments have. We see that algorithm research is often already loaded with prejudice. I would like to know from the Minister of Justice and Security how that is secured in the investigation and in security matters. Discrimination, sometimes unintentional, biases, but also unlawful action. Yesterday, we heard the Secretary of State responsible for the tax administration's implementation organisation say: we wanted to use another risk classification model, but we were told by an external agency that this could be unlawful and that that discrimination would help, so we didn't do it. I want to know what that's like with the BOLO. I also want to know how the review by an ethics committee is done, whether there is an algorithm register and how it is evaluated. Mr President, on the NCTV. A few weeks ago, we saw how a commercial company, NTA, committed unlawful infiltration investigations financed by NCTV in several municipalities. That distrust towards Muslims takes on bizarre and frightening forms and thus led to that large-scale infiltration of local religious communities. Why does the Minister not want to answer the questions that are being asked? Why won't he answer for it? I spoke to a delegation of about 180 mosque authorities a few weeks ago. They spoke with disbelief. All the good work they did, in the interests of the communities, of society, of the city in which they act, they joined the congregation; that trust is simply gone. One of those directors looked at me and said, "It's just impossible for me that I get an offer from the municipality to think about security. That's someone I trust. And then they turn out to be hanging all kinds of cameras that they've been listening to people with. I find that really insufferable." Those 180 mosques have now lodged a formal complaint with the CTIVD. Some of those domes are also considering a corridor to the judge. Mr. Chairman. The mess at the NCTV goes on and on. We now see that of an Arnhem imam, who has been a victim for three years, it has finally been said that that file is being deleted. He doesn't see that, by the way. Subsequently, an agreement is concluded by the State and is appropriate. But we also see that a resident of Schiedam, whom I myself have spoken with, has happened exactly the same. For a year, he's had no idea what he's been accused of, no access to his file, and for the rest, he's just at home. Any more victims, I'll ask the Minister. What's going to happen to the unauthorized operation of the NCTV? Last summer, Mr Grapperhaus, the Minister, denied that NCTV is following people, but really, it is. They just do, and that information is shared. The NCTV should also be included in the CTIVD as soon as possible with regard to these activities. Mr President, something about whistleblowers. Sometimes we as a room through whistleblowers come to know something about wrongdoing and we always see the same reflex. Whether it's the Tax Office or the Justice and Security Department, the hunt for the whistleblower is being opened. I find that really insufferable. I would ask the Minister to put an end to this immediately. On that point, too, I am considering a motion. Mr President, something about the police. Let me join with colleagues, including Mr Kuzu, who expressed his horror at the riots in Rotterdam. I can't believe what happened there. Demonstrating is also a fundamental right for DENK, but you just stay away from agents and aid workers. Unacceptable behavior. The police are already incredibly busy and have to carry out more and more tasks. But that also increases the pressure on the police organisation. The quantity and quality of the corps are at risk. The police unions are now ringing the bell almost every week. The police are understaffed. We have also seen in the report that if we listen to the General Court, this Minister's plans do not add up to closing the gap. Something more really needs to be done there. We can see the problems with the outflow. In a few years' time, the corps will be threatened by this short-term training to a large extent by poorly trained, inexperienced agents. What's the Minister gonna do? Is he gonna answer to the police unions' burn notice? Finally, I am going to talk about asylum and migration. While we are debating here, we see a dirty political game at the Polish border, where refugees freeze to death and are driven away by force. It has become a situation in which refugees have become pawns of political leaders in a power game. We see violent pushbacks, pushing people back to the open sea on non-seaworthy rafts. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to appeal to his colleagues at European level and strongly condemn this behaviour. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so here today in the House of Representatives? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today, among other things, about issues such as undermining, serious crime, asylum policy and the premium affair. We have heard a lot of colleagues talk about this very impressively, so I am not going to do that. Of course, these are very urgent issues, but for many people and older people in particular, when it comes to security, when I dare to go on the streets when it's dark, I dare to pin in a busy shopping center or I dare to do my banking online. We see society hardening. Look at last weekend's riots. Sometimes I ask myself sincerely: what kind of country do we live in? That even our aid workers should deal with aggression and violence is unprecedented and reprehensible. Physical and verbal violence, including digital violence, and aggression against our aid workers, politicians and enforcers must, in my view, be punished more severely. On top of that, I also believe that there should be stricter penalties for crimes of violence committed against the elderly and people with vulnerable health. I spoke to a lady from far in the 80s who was robbed on the street and fell. She broke her hip, came to the hospital, then had to go to the rehab center and couldn't go back to her own house. The impact on her was enormous. On average, we are getting older in the Netherlands and are often relatively healthy and vital to old age, and that is fine. It is also important that people feel safe, both at home, on the street and online. Many elderly people are afraid to be the victims of a home or street robbery, chat-tricks or Internet scams, and that fear is justified. Research shows that older people are still a very vulnerable group both offline and online. I therefore believe that structural investments should be made in 2022 and beyond to combat crime, and I am pleased that more agents are being deployed in the streets and also in digital neighbourhood agents. In this way, the police are not only physically close to the neighborhood, but also on the web. But as far as I'm concerned, more is needed. First of all, we need to make people feel as safe at home as possible, in their own homes. Not everyone has the money to secure his or her home. That is why I propose an income-dependent subsidy for elderly people and people with vulnerable health who want to secure their homes, for example, a subsidy for a lamp that goes on when you come to the front or back door and for good hanging and closing work, but also for a crack holder that prevents the door from being pushed open immediately when someone rings the doorbell. The cost of this is not that high, but it prevents a lot of psychological and in some cases also physical suffering. There are already some municipalities that offer a subsidy to residents to secure their store according to the Politicaleurmark Safe Living. Can the Minister indicate how many municipalities have a grant to secure your home? Can he also indicate whether there are also subsidies for rentals in addition to for residential properties? I also wonder how well-known the existing subsidy scheme is. In addition, a number of municipalities, including Almere, Nissewaard, Eindhoven and The Hague, did a pilot in 2019 to hang a digital doorbell in neighbourhoods where much is broken into, free of charge or subsidised. I read that this may make residents feel safer, but it cannot be concluded that crime has actually been reduced. And that there are questions about privacy regarding the footage from the cameras. Can the Minister indicate what lessons have been learned from this pilot, whether this pilot, if successful, has been converted into a long-term programme and how many municipalities have participated or participated in it? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to focus on preventing and protecting vulnerable people. By making good information and by making people resistant, they are less likely to become victims of crime. I think that is a very good thing, because it is important for people to be able to age well and safely in our country. Also because it saves money in the long term: older people and people who feel safe are less in need of care and support at home and can stay home for longer. But online security is also important. The total damage caused by phishing and bank help desk fraud was over 22.5 million in the first six months of 2021. By comparison, the total damage caused by fraud was EUR 39.5 million last year. Older people are relatively often victims of phishing and spoofing. Every year people are swindled for a great deal of money, which greatly damages their confidence and sense of security. I find that worrying. I agree with the banks, which, together with the government and other stakeholders, want to speed up their efforts to achieve an integrated approach to digital fraud. I would argue that this approach should be used in a structural manner, because far too often projects and pilots that are being launched, despite their success, will not be followed up. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the Safety10days. These ten-day information meetings took place throughout the country. Older people could participate in workshops free of charge, giving them practical tips on security in and around the home and online. Because of corona it was not possible to organise it last year, but apart from that, I would like to ask the Minister why a grant application should be made every year for such a project. Why does this not become a secure programme, with a programme leader at the Ministry, so that it becomes long-term and its reputation and impact can be even greater? There is also the Seniors and Security campaign of the Ministry of Justice and Security. Under the slogan "Don't make crooks too easy" four weeks a year attention is paid to different forms of crime: watching pins, chatting tricks, asking for help fraud and phishing. Can the Minister indicate how many people this campaign reaches annually and is this campaign repeated annually from now on? I am truly convinced that we need to reach older people and vulnerable people as directly and personally as possible in order to make them more resilient, with information in neighbourhoods and libraries and, if older people so wish, at home. In which someone gets tips and advice to improve his safety. For example, use retired agents to provide such safety advice in libraries and community centers and in old people's homes. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then financial exploitation of the elderly. Because many money cases are done online nowadays, it is often difficult for some elderly people, but also for those who are not dignitary, to keep track of their own finances. This makes them dependent on others. Unfortunately, there are people who abuse this dependency, for example in the case of pins or in the case of internet banking. Hundreds of thousands of elderly people are victims of financial abuse every year, and that is just the tip of the iceberg, because, unfortunately, there is often no report due to shame. In 75% of cases, this financial abuse is done by a family member. That makes it difficult for many elderly people to ring the bell. After all, you have to acknowledge that a person you trust is abusing your dependence. Because people do not report or report, financial abuse often goes unnoticed and the abuse can continue for a long time. In order to prevent, signal and stop this financial abuse, the Comprehensive Alliance Secure Financial Older Ages was founded in 2015 following the project Elders in safe hands. The aim was to establish an integrated approach at local, regional and national level. When I look at the site of the alliances, I see that there are now only 36 municipalities of local alliances. Can the Minister explain why there is no commitment in many more municipalities to combating financial abuse against the elderly? What do municipalities do and is this enough? In my opinion, this is where national direction is needed. I also think it is important that this move from the VWS ministry to the JenV ministry. Secretary of State Blokhuis made a commitment on this. Can the Minister state what's going on with that? Mr. Chairman. We have heard before that our police are also dealing with demographic developments. The Corps is getting older. It is essential that there is sufficient influx and that we keep the people we have. That means investing. In their letter today, the police unions argue for an additional 300 million, equivalent to 2,300 FTE policemen. It seems to me, especially in view of the present time frame and the enormous pressure on our policemen, that it is essential to take their request seriously. I'd like a response from the minister to the police union fire notice. Mr. Chairman. These are difficult times for all of us. Young people feel restricted in their freedoms and may be looking forward to online lessons again. Older people are afraid they'll have to spend Christmas alone. All our aid workers are under enormous pressure. Everyone is corona and all the measures are so tired. But whatever you think about it and whatever you think about it, let's at least respect our aid workers and each other. Just be a little sweet to each other at this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you. Mr President, residents of the Netherlands and... I was gonna say "everyone in the bleachers," but I see there's only one person. Hi! It is about a lot of things in this debate, so I could speak for hours, but fortunately a lot of good things have already passed by a number of colleagues. For now, I want to concentrate on three things: the disappearance of rural police stations, animal activism and the ban on fireworks. Between 1980 and today, 74% of police posts disappeared in Zeeland. In Friesland 66% and in South Holland only 27%. What stands out? In recent years, the police have mainly disappeared from our outer territories. We see the consequences today. Large parts of the countryside are trapped in a cycle of drug crime. Gangs claim territory, extort our farmers and poison young people with hard drugs. The chances of a drug deal in a typical village in the parking lot of the local football club are greater than the chance of a police car running into you. I know that's what the Minister's worried about. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what action programmes are being undertaken to break this cycle in rural areas. What concrete results have been achieved so far? The withdrawal from the villages has also put the police further away from the yard, an opportunity that radical animal activists are all too eager to seize to intimidate, rob farmers and harm them. We all remember the images of the brutal occupation by animal activists in Boxtel in May 2019. The Minister also refuses to appoint 269 Libération Animale, a foreign group that commits violent acts in the Netherlands to harm, as a terrorist organization, while these extremists openly reject the democratic and constitutional process and label farmers as Nazis in a holocaust. There were recent brutal burglaries by animal activists at a pig keeper in Groningen. That pig keeper has been sticking her neck out for years for more animal welfare and has invested millions in the stables for her scarlet pigs. Many farmers live in fear. What is the Minister doing to prevent these burglaries and assaults? And how high is animal activism currently on the agenda? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the ban on fireworks. Apart from the bizarre reason why this is now being set up, I shall come back to that in the Corona debate. Why a ban on fireworks in Jubbega, where people simply celebrate the new year with their ornamental pots, a glass of champagne and an oil ball, because bus booths are blown up in troubled neighbourhoods and cities? Something that doesn't even happen to a decorative pot, because it happens to illegal fireworks. That is already forbidden; just maintain it. The ban on fireworks is too ridiculous for words. In my opinion, the cabinet simply leaves its ears open to the anti-fire lobby and punishes millions of citizens, not to mention the fireworks buyers and traders. The figures also show that the emergency services hardly receive fireworks victims, let alone the hospitals and the ic's are full of them. The chairman of the Dutch Association of Emergency Doctors, David Baden, literally said so: "It's symbolic politics. The fireworks ban doesn't guarantee a quiet night at the emergency room. The Netherlands drinks at the same time, often drinking even more than usual. Drinking is a much greater burden on the emergency departments." The ban on fireworks is completely untenable, as I said. As a street cop e-mailed me: "We prefer the eight hours with the turn of the year than six weeks until the turn of the year. With all these prohibitions, the atmosphere does not get any more cozy." What is the Minister's position on the ban on fireworks? Is he still behind that, with all the criticism that has been made about it, 100%? How does the Minister intend to maintain it? How much extra police deployment is needed over the next few months and how much stakes on New Year's Eve? What's this gonna cost the citizens? Can the Minister explain why he is imposing this additional workload on his agents in these already difficult times? One final comment. Dear policemen, dear paramedics and sisters and best firefighters. Relaxers aren't our warriors. You're our warriors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about security and justice in this house, we usually talk about catching bad guys and tackling them harshly, about repression and about punishment. But justice is about justice as far as BET1 is concerned. A rule of law that works for everyone. Where the right of demonstration is and remains a great asset and is not disturbed by violent police actions. Where your income, background or position in society has no effect on your access to justice. Where as a whistleblower you can safely ring the bell. Where you are always welcome and where everyone has the same rights, regardless of your documents or lack of them. Where you will find security and certainty when your future perspective is taken from you by imperialist terror. Where your right to a safe and dignified existence is guaranteed, no matter who and how long you have worked for. Where we are no longer talking about a migration crisis, but about a crisis of expatriation, about dehumanisation and about international solidarity. Where intelligence services protect citizens from the growing threat of the extreme right, instead of affecting the sense of security of peaceful activists or local mosques. Where the first article of our Constitution is central and taken seriously. And where your last name or skin color doesn't matter how often you get arrested or on what so-called blacklist you get. Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve this society, concrete steps must be taken. Steps that seem too often asked for this outgoing cabinet but also for this Chamber. But is it really so revolutionary to no longer tolerate or normalise human rights violations in the form of ethnic profiling, for example? Ethnic profiling is something that still happens to many Dutch people monthly, weekly, and sometimes daily. Although the judge, totally opposed to Article 1 of our Constitution, decided that ethnic profiling should be allowed, the Marechaussee now chooses to stop profiling ethnically in the wake of the ensuing social debate. Good. That's really good news. I would therefore like to ask the outgoing minister for regular updates on this adjustment. Can he see to it that this transformation actually takes place? I also wonder: if the military can do it, why not the police, the tax authorities, the NCTV, the UWV and the municipalities? Is it not high time, according to the outgoing minister, that they too refrain from discriminatory algorithms and risk profiles? Mr. Chairman. In fact, there is still a structural failure in the case of various organisations. For example, the number of complaints about ethnic police profiling increased by 66% in 2020 compared to the year before. Last month, a report from Erasmus University was published indicating for the umpteenth time that young people with a migration background are seen two to three times as often as suspects. One of the greatest crimes in our society ever, the surcharge scandal, also arose for a large part from ethnic profiling and the hunting of people with small wallets. Mr. Chairman. Then I wonder out loud how we're ever going to get to a solution in an environment where whistleblowers are being bullied away, cops in racist app groups aren't being fired, and the government itself is not taking sufficient steps to prevent future scandals such as the premium crime. The National Ombudsman also made it very clear earlier this year that the government is really doing far too little in this area. So can the outgoing minister promise me that the fight against ethnicity and social class by these many different authorities, including the government, is a priority at all? 'Cause it doesn't feel like it at all. Can we, if he indicates that he does think it is important, start taking concrete steps today? I will do it from my side, and I am very curious to see if I can expect any cooperation. Finally in my block of police, I repeat that it really is a huge mystery to me how last weekend's riots have escalated. I ask the outgoing minister how it is possible that the police, for example in Rotterdam, were not prepared to get so out of hand, while less than a month ago in the housing protest in the same city there was supposedly preventive, but indeed excessive, police violence against peaceful demonstrators. Mr. Chairman. We must also talk about the NCTV, an organisation that does not protect citizens, but puts them at risk. For example, they helped municipalities illegally infiltrate mosques through institutional Muslim hatred, imams are accused without reason of extremism, with all the consequences. They followed, also illegally, hundreds of activists and political leaders, including my campaign leader. Sensitive information from citizens was collected, stored, analyzed and shared in an illegal way. According to what seems to be the autopilot of all regiments, the outgoing minister denied all wrongdoing during my interviews about this in this Chamber in June this year. According to him, the operation of the NCTV was completely permissible. What he also has in common with many of his colleagues from the cabinet is that he lied to the Chamber very hard. Not much later we could read that the course of action, as I indicated at the time, did indeed break the law. During that debate, I tabled a motion. It was adopted by the Chamber. That motion contained two very clear points. One: establish clear legal frameworks that clarify the powers of the NCTV. Two: do not expand the NCTV and its powers further. On the first point, given the various far-reaching violations that the organisation has committed since then, I would like to ask: what is the state of play? And about that second thing, I'm gonna go call on the outgoing minister again, because again he's gonna hurt the Chamber. Again, he breaks the agreements we make here in this house. Despite my vote and despite the strong criticism of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, there is a legislative proposal for the extension of the NCTV. With this motion adopted under the arm and all the unacceptable situations I have just outlined, my question is above all: where does this outgoing minister really get the guts from? Finally, Mr President. A rule of law that works for all means migration policy that is not restrictive, but open and solidarity, reception policy that does not undermine human dignity and facilitates integration policy that does not require it. It means giving everyone the same rights, regardless of the status. I know, it's a big dream, but let's start with small steps. Mr. Chairman. Six years ago, the alarm bell was already about the appalling conditions in shelters. How can it be that refugees in a prosperous country like ours still have to stay in centres where undisturbed sleep is impossible, where people have to spend the night on chairs or on the ground, where people suffer cold, become isolated and can get anything but calm, where people live in uncertainty for a very long time, people whom we ourselves have brought here and put at risk ourselves? Do the rulers think this is normal? What's taking you so long to finally change? The inhumane conditions continue to affect the mental well-being of refugees. They worsen or lead to depression, post-traumatic stress and anxiety attacks. For example, we could read today how Afghan refugees are on the verge of collapse because of these appalling conditions and total hopelessness. How are the directors planning to provide adequate psychological assistance to all those who need it, from children to adults and from status holders to people without papers? And what about the counseling of single minor refugees? It has been known for years, both inside and outside youth care, that the hard cut and abrupt end to the guidance of young people are counterproductive and that it costs more when former amps are once again confronted with health problems, poverty or debt after their 18th due to a system that is difficult to navigate. News hours, VNG, the Ombudsman and interest groups have sounded the alarm clock and say that the assistance of single minor refugees should be extended. As far as my party is concerned, it is not only extended for one or two years, or until they are 21, but as long as it is necessary, until the young people are assured of the big five: support, living, work and school, income and debt, care and support. It is the responsibility of the Empire to ensure security of existence for everyone on Dutch territory. So how are the rulers going to commit themselves to this, I wonder. Have they thought, for example, of setting up a national help desk, following organisations such as SAMAH? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would have liked to have had a longer, more fundamental debate on how we deal with and evade responsibility for the very concrete consequences of our colonial past in the present. In conclusion, however, I would like to keep to this: very concretely, I ask the outgoing directors for an immediate general pardon for undocumented Surinamese, from the moral obligation, from the point of view of responsibility and from a historical point of view. If they have any questions about this, I will be happy to discuss it with them at a later stage. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course I'll be brief. After all, the mercilessly counting clock is for BVNL the efficient muzzle of division. So be it. Mr. Chairman. All the major and important topics have passed over the last few hours. Undermining, drug trafficking, the associated organised crime and liquidations, trafficking in human beings, violent robbery, serious crimes of violence and violence and increasing pressure on the rule of law have been discussed by colleagues. Of course, from this chair, I can express my concerns and summon the Cabinet to finally do something about organized crime, but that is gratuitous. Years of tolerating and looking away, as well as an exaggerated pity for the perpetrators based on the Coornhert-Liga, have unfortunately left their mark. We know in our criminal law the principle of maximum punishment, which protects the defendant from draconian judges. However, minimum penalties could also be introduced, which preserves society from overly empathic toga carriers. I never understood the argument that the judge should continue to be able to deliver customization. After all, the maximum penalty must also be abolished. I'm gonna leave the major crime for a while. I would like attention to be paid to the small human suffering of the good citizen. More and more stories reach me that people see their stolen scooter or e-bike back at Marketplace, but that the police refuse to take action. In one case, a lady was advised to go for it herself. This seems to me to be a very risky advice. How does the Minister see this? Reporting small crime is difficult and time-consuming and the follow-up is almost always non-existent. Many SMEs and shopkeepers can also talk about this. The hardworking SMEs not only suffer damage from rioters, cybercrime and AP, but are also deemed to be unpaid boa to check CTBs, as long as their case of Hugo de Jonge can at least remain open, or undermining by unusual transactions. All this is at odds with the sense of justice of the good citizen, who gets lick-on-piece in the form of an acceptance giro if he accidentally drove 4 kilometers too fast on the highway. And you already understand, Chairman, the CJIB has named me customer of the year. Mr. Chairman. Of course I understand the capacity problem with the police. It is also logical that the strong arm should set priorities. However, citizens must also be able to rely on protection and fair treatment in the case of small crime. If the Minister succeeds in enchanting 5,000 boas from the high sorting hat à la Harry Potter to maintain the corona policy in the catering industry, then there must also be something to do about the resources of the sacred hermandad. What are the Minister's plans on this? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, in our world, it is necessary for people to flee from war, violence and gun clatter. I don't blame them. I would also like a hare to get out of Afghanistan to get out from under the yoke of the Taliban or to flee from other fireplaces. However, once we come to a point where we meet or even cross the borders of the possible reception of refugees. The Netherlands is a small and very densely populated country with already capacity problems in the areas of housing, education, care and so on. Does the Minister agree with me that the Netherlands can hardly accommodate any additional refugees and should try to enter other solutions, in particular reception in the region? Does the Minister agree with me that we should start a substantive discussion in Parliament on how many people can actually host the Netherlands on its territory? That's not a pleasant discussion. I'm not looking forward to it either, but sooner or later it's gonna have to happen. A minister of demography does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury in the interests of the Netherlands. How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. Justice and security are a great asset and in these turbulent times certainly no longer self-evident. I would like to make a contribution once in a while, if the committee for JenV allows me to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ephraim. Finally, we are going to listen to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A state functions as its institutions function. If you go to the town hall of Siena, you will see behind you not a few stones, but two allegories, one when the board functions and one when the board does not function. If the board functions, the economy flourishes, industry flourishes, houses are built and there is a celebration. If things are bad, then people are unable to farm, there are crimes and the economy is ruined. I would have liked to have seen something like this on the wall and I am still waiting for the motion to be implemented to hang the Constitution here instead of the ground. Not that I don't come from clay, but it seemed appropriate to us to look at the higher: what do we want our society to look like? Because remember, good governance is like good infrastructure: you see it when you miss it. In our rule of law there is serious concrete rot. That's what I argued here in January 2021, after the fall of the cabinet. I asked for a state committee and the Chamber agreed unanimously. That state committee is not here and I am going to ask you to ask it today. There are three things that aren't going well. One. The relationship between government and citizens is completely out of control. Two. The undermining crime is growing. Many colleagues have talked about this. Three. Class justice. The State is hardcore for people at the bottom, for citizens and workers who have committed a small mistake, but at the top of society there is much less violence. Finally, I would like to make a few other comments after this speech. First, the relationship between government, citizen and administrative law. The childcare allowance scandal has painfully exposed a lot of rotten things, which the government wants to cover with a lot of money at the moment. Money that sometimes ends up in people who have little damage, while people who have a lot of damage have to wait a long time. Many reports have been published and have recently been supplemented by two reports, one of the judges and one of the Council of State. They're sketching a cloaking image. The IRS didn't comply with many laws for years. We have an incomplete list of 13 laws that the Tax Administration violated for years. This led to very serious problems for citizens. The Tax Administration didn't tell citizens what to prove, sometimes waited a year and a half with their decision to object and parents were desperate because they didn't have childcare and had to pay back everything. Parents didn't get their files and they still don't get this. The courts didn't get the file either. The courts and the Council of State did not apply the law, Article 26 of the Awir, properly. For years the Council of State blindly followed the Tax Administration and the Tax Administration also lied to the Council of State, says the Council of State. And now the Council of State is saying sorry. That's a special apology, because of the suggestion to see statements, we don't hear anything. Judges who say they are sorry for their statements and do not draw any consequences from them lead to less confidence in the rule of law. Why aren't these statements being revised? The function of a judge's ruling is to get the truth out of the table, especially in administrative law. What are we gonna do with the Council of State? I have a few questions about that first. A number of judges of the Council of State first worked with the state attorney. You know, Pels Rijcken, which I'll come back to, because there's a lot wrong there. He advised in 2009 and 2011 to take that tough approach anyway. It was advocacy. That uncomfortable truth didn't make it to the report. My question to the government is: were those who wrote the advice for the Tax Administration as a judge involved in this case? The second uncomfortable fact is about the origin of the judges. The judges of the Council of State shall be from the public administration. We know the color of surprisingly many judges. They were MEPs, mayor or president of the VNG. The Council of State is about conflicts between government and citizens. Since all these judges come from public administration or from the judiciary, but never from the Ombudsman or from the Consumers' Union, we should not be surprised that they have believed that administration very often. I am surprised that we do not think of that in the reform. For me, it is clear: the selection of judges must be changed and the Board of State, the Administrative Law Division, should be placed in the courts, with the possibility of cassation in administrative law at the Supreme Court. Is the government prepared to shape that? And how does the government understand the "sorry" of judges? The judges have also indicated that they have abdominal pain. Now we know the term 'abdominal pain' from the parliamentary interrogation committee. Abdominal pain in judges and civil servants means there's something huge wrong, but they can't tell because it's stuck. Are you prepared to discuss with those judges why they have abdominal pain from the VNG, abdominal pain from foreign law, so that we know if there are any more cases? I'd like an answer. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to make a few comments about the removals. A motion was passed in the Chamber on that. Those kids were put together and jumped out of the house. But although we already had a letter from the government in June that there were unjustified removals, we are now in November and the investigation has not yet started. Hundreds of these children are not with their parents and there is no hotline, whereas the Chamber has unanimously asked for it. Can I please know if the investigation starts in two weeks? If we do something in administrative law: that citizen does not have that much chance. The administrative judge may not take a full test and the administrative body has a so-called administrative loop. If they do something wrong, they can fix it. Does the government want to establish a civil loop in administrative law? If the citizen makes a mistake, he can also fix it during the trial, so that it gets a little more honest. Mr. Chairman. I am trying to be a little shorter about the undermining crime, because colleagues have talked about it extensively. You fight mafia structures on its Italian: hard for the mafia and with respect and maintenance of the rule of law, with strong institutions. Italy has built extremely strong institutions after 1945, first in the lead years, with hundreds of deaths in terrorist attacks, and then in the fight against the Mafia. They were raw. A prime minister, Aldo Moro, was murdered. In the Netherlands, too, we are dealing with raw business. Three people were killed around the key witness. Peter R. de Vries is the third. His murder shocked Italy, because those kinds of brutal murders no longer occur in broad daylight. Here in this country, it is not a criminal who should be able to decide who is in charge, but the Minister of Justice. He's got to be the boss all the time and everywhere. Aside from the fact that I think this should be taken into account in the State Committee as the second subject, I shall say in this way why there is also some low-hanging fruit. Can we finally introduce vog screening at customs? We do that to taxi drivers, to police officers, but not yet at customs. And GRECO, who deals with integrity at the Council of Europe, has made eight recommendations about police and prosecutors. All eight were only partially executed. When will they be fully executed? Than the greater good. You can use heavy cases against bad guys, but be careful you don't use the things you want to use for the serious crime to deal with the little guy. It happens to the Bibob a lot. Then the big fish escape the dance and the little one gets caught. That's why they both have to be on the state committee. Mr. Chairman. I also wanted a nice quote. I thought Augustine was a little too far, I say to Mrs Bikker, because that raider gang... I go for Coornhert: "It is unfair that that punitive swaer zy than the misdeed, this happens in the hang of simple thieves." Next year, we're celebrating his birth 500 years ago. This is exactly the problem with class justice. The essence of doing justice is that Lady Justitia has a blindfold and without respect of the person judges, that descent does not matter, that poor and rich do not matter. This is also essential for the sense of justice of citizens in the Netherlands. But it wrings here. The country's attorney who spent years cheating on millions keeps his contract. With this lawyer, the government defends itself, including against citizens and businesses that have done relatively small things. The state's attorney was investigated by the FIOD: million-dollar fraud. Say goodbye. Say goodbye immediately. A citizen who has to deal with the Bibob or who doesn't get a dog for something very small, without the judge being involved, could lose his job. The bankers who have impoverished the State by an estimated 26 billion with CumEx are not prosecuted in the Netherlands. It does happen in Germany. But the welfare worker who gets messages from his parents and does not report them, is being treated harshly. The marshal who takes a free Mars out of the machine with one slap will be fired. This problem of class justice is felt. Dealing with crime is not about press releases and roaring figures. It's about integrity, perseverance and authority. You deserve that authority when you sweep the stairs from above. That's not gonna happen. How the balance sheet should come back must be the subject of the State Committee. That is the third issue. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is not going to solve it, of course, because we all think that tomorrow we will have a new cabinet for 250 days. But by laying the foundation, it can contribute to it. That is why I would like this cabinet to set up the State Commission. That's a Parliamentary motion from January. Mr. Chairman. Then a few loose ends, but it's not a loose point. I've argued before for a... tribunal for ISIS fighters. I even wrote academic articles about this and advocated it in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u18	Maybe just for the sake of clarity, because I hear a little chuckle here on my right. There is no ban on the word "criminal." It's about the intention that's meant to be. I think it's good to report that, too. If it's meant to be intimidating, it's something else. I think this is an ordinary term. I call Mr Omtzigt. Yeah, okay, okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u19	Sorry, but I have a brief point of order. My comment in my speech was not meant to be intimidating. We strongly support any form of justice that fights IS fighters. So bring up that IS tribunal, but not here in the Netherlands! There, in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u20	I don't think I'm gonna argue with you anymore. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. In response, I have proposed that this should be done in the region. I have written an international report on this in the Council of Europe. I offered that to the Dutch government before she was in the Security Council. Unfortunately, that wasn't inserted. I would have preferred it to have been voted down there because Russia had not participated. But I really think it's necessary. Genocide must be prosecuted at all times. It would also have been my strong wish to have the tribunal there, because there are the evidence, because the victims are there and there are the people who can testify. It's gonna be a hell of a tour to try these people around here. I wasn't in favour of getting some of those people back, like right now. But if you let them go back, then a special prosecutor is the least of them. That's what I'm asking the government. This special prosecutor is going to collect the difficult evidence and see if these people can be prosecuted. ISIS people still keep Jezidis as sex slaves even in Camp Al-Hol, even in that area. I had a conversation with Nadia Murad, who told you what that was like. She won the Nobel Prize. How serious is it that she is not even allowed to speak in Canada, because people find that offensive? It's one of the biggest crimes of the last ten years. Since we have recognised it here with the Kuik motion, we are obliged under international law to prosecute people. There's no crime that requires you to do anything except genocide. We have said: it is genocide. Then you have to do it. So I want one of those prosecutors for genocide, for sex slaves and for participation in a terrorist organization. I ask the government: can you promise? Mr. Chairman. The state's attorney. We're not gonna get the whistleblower, are we? Oh, please. I agree with Van Esch, Simons and Kuik's questions about the constitutional court. There's a motion. How's that going? The Van Kuik motion is also about the Law on Supervisors. It needs to be prepared. How's that going? Finally, I would like to know whether there will be a response to the Venice Commission report on how we can avoid a surcharge affair. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law needs to be seriously strengthened. That will be a long-term plan, but I am happy to make a very big contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mr. Sneller of D66, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u23	I have now heard Mr Omtzigt speak a few times in favour of constitutional review. However, it is still not quite clear to me what form he wants. Should the whole Constitution be subject to review as far as he is concerned and should it be a court, or is he in favour of a wide-ranging review? Well, he knows the variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u24	There are two key questions in constitutional review. On the first key question, I have a clear answer. That is that it is possible to test the classical constitution and the intergovernmental relations. So you can test the freedom of expression, you can test the right to a fair trial, what we are going to deal with in a few weeks' time, you can test the right to association, you can check the non-discrimination ban in Article 1, but you cannot check the social right to housing. That's our job. We neglect them somewhat, but then you'll have to go to court whether you have a house or not and you won't. The second part you can check on is administrative relations. This includes, for example, Article 68. It's about whether we in the Chamber get the documents from the government. I think you only have to go to the constitutional court once and then the government knows what the verdict is, because then they can do something within a week. On the second point, I am still a bit in dubio. You can do it or you can do it through a constitutional court, as Mr Sneller says, or you can have all the judges judged by the Constitution. By the way, they can now review the Constitution when it comes to AMvBs and low regulation, but not about laws. In the Kuik motion there is the question of setting up a committee. It is also in Mrs Simons' motion, as well as the question of what is the best way. I see pros and cons. At the moment when the Constitution is only centralized, you may go to the ordinary judge with the ECHR in hand, but not with the Constitution in hand. Somewhere along the way, I feel something for a concentrated review, so at a constitutional court, because then you better have that unity of law. Also for matters relating to inter-administrative relations, you only have to do it with one body. I am not quite clear yet and therefore I think it would be wise to wait and see what comes out of that Simons motion committee on that second point. At the first point it is actually the Halsema version with a few small pluses in it, a bit along the lines of what informant Remkes suggested with his state committee. He has to know about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u26	Finally, Halsema had a 180-degree solution other than the State Committee-Remkes. Halsema was a distributed review...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u27	No, I'm talking about the list to check the test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u28	Oh, the check?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u29	Sorry, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-10.u31	I would like to thank the directors, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. We will continue the debate tomorrow afternoon.
