ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u1	This is an important debate: the Autumn note. A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Finance. Thank you for joining us. We have no less than twelve speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Tony van Dijck of the Party for Freedom Group. He has seven minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u2	Thank you, Mr President. This is probably the last debate with this finance minister. We're gonna miss him. Let me start this seven minutes in a positive way. It looks like he's on a farewell tour. He sprinkles farewell presents. Where he used to be the thrifty Scrooge we all know him now he looks more like Santa Claus. It cannot be: 7 billion more for climate, 5 billion for the nitrogen fund to buy out farmers, 20 billion for a National Growth Fund, you know, that's such a "money-seeking project" fund and 20 billion for a donation to the European Recovery Fund. He gives Italy and Spain each a gift from the Dutch taxpayer of no less than 4 billion, simply because he does not want to be seen as Scrooge in those countries. For 20 billion, he will also guarantee cheap loans. It's just to be seen if we'll ever get it back. He gives 10 billion to Brussels every year. He even buys a 150 million-dollar painting in the fall just because he can. Mr. Chairman. The billions are flying all over us. I am not even talking about the forthcoming government agreement, which announces new billions of funds: a climate fund, a 20 billion nitrogen fund and a housing fund. But in all this throwing with money and in all those funds I miss the purchasing power fund. This Minister has completely forgotten the citizens of the Netherlands. That's what we're here for, isn't it? Half of the households are financially unhealthy and vulnerable, recently according to Deloitte's research. A third of households are struggling to pay the bills. That's 2.5 million families. 550,000 households live in energy poverty. 1 million people live in poverty in the Netherlands. 160,000 people walk by the food bank. This is the Netherlands in 2021. That should concern the Minister of Finance. This problem is getting bigger every day. The prices are rising. The Netherlands is becoming priceless for many people. Due to the huge increase in gas prices, the energy bill is now priceless for many people. Due to the increased oil price we now pay more than €2 for 1 liter of petrol at the pump. 1 liter of beer is cheaper than 1 liter of gasoline. Can't we just ride beer? 1 litre of beer costs €1.90. Mr. Chairman. Increased demand and scarcity have led to a rise in food prices. The price of oil rose by 60%, the price of cereals by 41%, the price of sugar by 54% and the price of maize by 38%. Freight rates have also increased tenfold. That's all going to go crazy in inflation. It's now at 5.6%, but the CPB is still assuming 1.9%. It's the highest score in 40 years. Everything's getting more expensive. This applies not only to groceries, but also to clothing, cosmetics, insurance, building materials; it applies to everything. Due to the scarcity in the housing market and low interest rates, house prices are also skyhigh. You can't get a house anymore or you can't pay it anymore. In one year the price of a house increased by 20%. The average price of a house five years ago was two and a half tonnes. In the meantime, it is above four tons. That's not even in the inflation rate of 5.6%. How high would inflation be if you included the 20% increase in house prices? That's what I'm asking this minister. In addition, this cabinet, this minister, increased VAT on groceries two years ago. Under ten years Rutte doubled the energy tax, rents increased by 35% and pensioners lost 25% in purchasing power. Thus, the cabinet throws oil on the fire, but the problems of the ordinary man and woman do not interest this minister. He is far too busy with the climate, with nitrogen, with the bullying away of farmers, with the European Union, with the reception and housing of tens of thousands of asylum seekers and with the transfer of billions to Africa and countries like Italy. The hard-working taxpayer is only here to be squeezed. They'll pay the bill. The PVV wants the Dutchman to be put back on one. The water comes to their lips. The PVV therefore wants VAT on groceries to go down again, the energy tax to go down again, the rents to go down again and the own risk to be eliminated. Pensioners also need to be indexed again. It is too scandalous for words how our elders are treated and stripped of by this cabinet. I'll make a motion on that later. The question for today is therefore: how will the Minister ensure that the purchasing power of the ordinary man or woman is maintained? Does he have a farewell gift for them, or does he think that the flood will come after me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you. Of course, we look forward to your motion that you submit in the second term to have all cars run on beer. That's gonna work! Mr Heinen is absent and that is why we are already going to listen to Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the very least, it is remarkable that the spokesperson of the country's largest party is not here. Who knows why? Mr. Chairman. 2021 seems to be the year of political paralysis in The Hague. This cabinet has been decommissioned for almost a year now, and much of the necessary reforms, which are actually far too long past the date, have not been discussed or hardly been discussed all this time, despite a majority in this Chamber. I would like to mention, for example, the abolition of the landlord's levy and the promotion of housing, the reduction of labour costs and the increase in the burden on capital or the introduction of a basic grant for all students and compensation for the debt generation. Despite a majority for this and other reforms, nothing has happened for a year. But the world doesn't stand still because The Hague stands still. In this way, inflation will make everything more expensive. The PVV Group has already paid attention to this. I mention the energy prices, the groceries and the rents. These are costs that everyone has to deal with, but which are easier for one to bear than for the other. On Prinsjesdag, an increase in purchasing power of 0.8% was predicted in 2021. That 0.8% was already a downward adjustment compared to what people had been promised a year earlier. At the time, the high inflation rate at the moment was not taken into account. Inflation is probably much higher than the 1.9% that the Central Planning Bureau took into account at the time. This means that people will probably not make any progress at all this year and that they will even make a big drop next year, while the economy is growing. The cabinet is therefore consistently failing to translate economic growth in our country into more prosperity for ordinary people. Once again, the cabinet awaits the next estimate of the Central Planning Bureau, which will not be published until spring. There is therefore a risk of further paralysis in The Hague and further deterioration in the Netherlands. Is the Cabinet prepared to prevent this by asking the Central Planning Bureau for a new estimate as a matter of urgency and to have several scenarios drawn up for inflation development? And what is the message from the cabinet to the European Central Bank, which is going to make important decisions about its policy again behind closed doors this week, which will have major consequences for inflation? Mr. Chairman. There is also work to be done in the care sector. There is again much less spending than estimated, even in the current corona crisis. Less tests have been conducted through employers than expected: fewer tests for access, fewer PCR tests, fewer antigen tests and less purchased self-tests. Added together, the care alone spent about 2 billion euros less on corona tests than expected. This is often the case: while it is not that bad in practice, people are being scared of rising healthcare costs. In recent days, reports have come out about hospitals that have not yet been able to make an appointment with health insurers because of this excessive fear of rising healthcare costs. The Haaglanden Medisch Centrum even called on patients not to take care insurance with a number of insurers, because they want that hospital to cut 10% in the middle of this corona crisis. Does the Cabinet share the view that hospitals should not get into trouble because health insurance companies are holding hands while we are in a major care crisis? What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. We have seen that successive right-wing cabinets have unfortunately saddled us with an unjust system, in which hospitals can go bankrupt and banks cannot. In this system, multinationals also refuse to contribute to our society. Shell and ExxonMobil still have to pay the State 1.3 billion for the reinforcement and damage recovery in Groningen, but simply refuse to do so. Shell didn't pay any taxes at all, but they don't want to repair the damage they caused. Mr. Chairman. That is, of course, scandalous. If ordinary people are late in paying a few hundred euros to the Tax Office, then the government can make their lives miserable, evict them and even take their children away from them. But that same government cannot collect EUR 1.3 billion from two multinationals that Groningers were on their own for a long time. The cabinet says that no legal means will be left unused in this legal battle. What means is the cabinet considering? Does seizure of Shell's and Exxon's properties in the Netherlands also belong to these possibilities, as there have been so many products, houses and property seized by people who couldn't miss it at all? Finally, Mr President. The cabinet now transfers EUR 10 billion a year to Brussels. The PVV Group also drew attention to this. That will soon be much more from the so-called Recovery Fund. But apparently that is not enough, because the cabinet has transferred some 100 million extra to the EU because of a post-tax. Some objections are raised, but what does the outcome of this objection procedure mean for future payments? I ask the Minister. What financial risk are we running? Mr. Chairman. In short, while our economy, our concern, our government and our relationship with Brussels are in need of reform, almost nothing has happened for a year. The question is whether Rutte IV, with the same leaders as Rutte III, will carry out these necessary reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u5	Very well, thank you. Then Mr Hammelburg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u6	That's more comfortable, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for raising the microphone. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the autumn note that we are discussing today is special, so at the end of the year, it seems that the formation process. It may also be the last one for this minister, but I am not going to make any statements about it today. Mr. Chairman. I want to discuss three major short and long-term challenges in this house today. The first concerns rising energy prices, which were also mentioned by the PVV, and the implementation of the motion that I tabled, from D66, together with Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA, on targeted compensation for the poorest households in the Netherlands. Secondly, I would like to talk about the return to the old but better normal when it comes to the financial decision-making in this country and this Chamber. Finally, I would also like to talk about the sustainability of healthcare costs, as Mr Alkaya also pointed out. Mr. Chairman. I will start with the targeted energy compensation, or the targeted compensation for the poorest households. I am really glad to hear that the cabinet has been working on this so diligently. Well, "sustaining": it has taken some time and it is now good winter. The heaters are on and people want clarity. This simply means that the 800,000 poorest households in the Netherlands will receive around €200. I am pleased with that result, because this is really necessary. This autumn, during the Financial Reviews together with all of us in this house, we were shocked by these rising energy prices. I am very pleased with the generic compensation package, but the concern of this Chamber was not for nothing the poorest households too, and this is now being addressed. But, Mr President, I do have some questions about that. When exactly can these people expect compensation? That was not entirely clear from the letter. I told you, it's winter, it's cold, people are worried right now and they want to know where they are. How is this gonna reach people? I understand very well that it is now all arranged or in progress for the non-working people through the municipality, but I am also very concerned about the working poor in the Netherlands and how they are achieved. This does not go through the local authorities' regular channels, but, as the minister's letter states, specifically through an information campaign or public campaign. My question to the Minister is exactly what this is going to look like. How are we actually going to reach these people? Mr. Chairman. Then the return to the old normal, to the old normal improved, as I just said. I am very aware that we have been in crisis for the last year and a half, including in this house. The same applies, of course, to decision-making, including financial decision-making. Once again, I would like to express my appreciation for the state of crisis and the many crisis work carried out by the cabinet, but I would like to mention in particular the officials who may hear this and who we know have worked hard and under heavy pressure to guide this country through this coronapandemic over the past one and a half, two years. It's not emphasised enough in this house. I think we should thank them for that. 'Cause it's really not nothing. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, I am also a little concerned about the control and control of the Chamber when it comes to financial decision-making. In the Accountability debate, my colleague also pointed out to the Minister that the large amount of incidental supplementary budgets and the large use of the exemption clauses in the Compatibility Act in 2020 are something to be alarmed by. Last year we had 46 supplementary budgets. The counter's at 60 now. At VWS, that's 13 right now. Again understanding, also towards the cabinet. But I do have some questions about this. Can the Minister explain how the number of ISBs relates to the Minister's previous commitment to deal with this with restraint? Can the Minister tell us what he has done over the past year to organise integrated decision-making as much as possible at one time? Can the Minister indicate how rest and regularity can be achieved in the long-term accountability system? What lessons can we draw from the crises that are undoubtedly going to come to this country and the world, with the same problems again? Mr. Chairman. Also for the people at home: ISBs, those supplementary budgets, what does that mean? I have a concrete example. I have questions about that, too. That's the recent news about the purchase of mouth caps by VWS. We read in the news that the VWS Department is actually some kind of mouth cap buyer. The Empire now has 704 million surgical masks in stock. According to the Cabinet, there are too many of them. The shelf life is ending. So the cabinet says, "We have to get rid of that." In the media we read that VWS bought these masks for €5 per box and resells them for only €0.64 per box. It's about huge amounts of money. Well, that sounds like a really bad deal to me. My first question to the Minister is: is this message true? If so, what exactly went wrong here? If it is not clear, I would very much like to be informed very quickly by the Minister, the Ministry or the minister's successor. If necessary, this will be done through an investigation, but preferably as soon as possible. Because there must be no ambiguity about this. Mr. Chairman. I can see I'm going through my time as hard as I can. I have a question about the sustainability of the in=terminal. It has grown from 1.3 billion to 1.8 billion. My question to the Minister is: on what basis does the Minister think this task can still be filled? Mr President, almost finally, the great tasks of the future. I've got two and a half minutes left on the counter. One of these concerns the rising costs of care. That's what Mr. Alkaya said. The Study Group on Budget Space is calling for this very much attention and calls it the well-known 'cuckoo boy' that can replace the other expenditures. For example, you can think of the costs that we as the Netherlands want to incur for education, to combat climate change, for infrastructure and for the state of our schools and hospitals. With unchanged policies, one in four people in the care sector will have to work in 2040 to meet increasing demand. This is simply not sustainable for the future and will therefore be at the expense of those other sectors. My question is: can the Minister reflect on the implementation variants of the Study Group on Budget Space and how we now deal with it and how we should deal with it? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u7	There is a question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u8	I actually said the exact opposite. I said that the increase in healthcare costs is often exaggerated and in practice is not so bad. I just printed the latest figures: 13.2% of the economy in 2009, 13.2% in 2019. In these ten years, care costs as a percentage of the economy have not grown at all. So what exactly is Mr Hammelburg's problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u9	If those costs are expressed as a percentage of the economy, I say to the Socialist Party: that is nice, but if you see what proportion of the overall expenditure goes to the care side, then we will have to look at that. Again, I have a very warm heart for the care. The WRR made it very clear not long ago that this is indeed a problem, and even indicated it in a large-scale way. Report after report indicates that. If I have misunderstood Mr Alkaya and if the SP thinks otherwise, then I will not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u10	The problem is that the increase in healthcare costs is often depicted in euros. Makes it look like a lot of money. It's also a lot of money, but we all make more money every year. That's why it's important to look at the economy as well. As a percentage of the economy, this growth is not so bad. Of course, it will also increase as a percentage of the economy because the population is ageing, but it is a good thing that we want to take care of our older people. I mean, that could cost a lot of money, couldn't it? So if there is a problem here in the House of Representatives about the rising costs of care, I expect it to be better substantiated: what exactly is the problem? If the economy continues to grow as the cost of care grows and if it doesn't fall apart, then there is no problem at all. So let us not ask this kind of suggestive question to the cabinet, which is probably just a day away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u11	This is not a suggestive question. On the contrary, it is a real and real problem that almost everyone, except the SP, recognizes. So I'm not sure where the Socialist Party is getting this from. Looking at the expenditure and its increase and certainly looking at the future of the Netherlands, this really is a huge problem. I say that we really need to look seriously at it to keep it sustainable, because we have a certain amount of money as a government. There's only a few ways we can spend it. We need to split that up. As the SP suggests, you can raise taxes hugely, very badly, but even then you won't make it. I cannot do much about the Socialist Party looking away from this big problem, but I do find that problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u12	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u13	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. That promises something for tomorrow, for the coalition agreement. We will make sure that care is not cut back. We will not accept cuts in health care. I also ask Mr Hammelburg what he is proposing here; a cut in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u14	My question was very simple. The study group has developed a number of variants. They need to be translated further. That is the only question I am asking this Minister. You will undoubtedly see tomorrow what the plans will mean for the coming years, but I also mentioned the look-through to 2040. This really requires vision, a clear approach and the elaboration of those research variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u15	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u16	Yeah, I'm continuing. I was also at my close, Chairman, with a little reflection, which I also started with. I also highlight this point as the end of a reigning period and a very long missionary status. In the context of this reflection, too, I have a question for the Minister. My question to the Minister is: what are you satisfied with and what, if you look back, might have gone even better? What could you have done better? What lessons does the Minister himself draw, for example, when it comes to steering on quality? That is an important spearhead of this Minister. The Minister previously announced that the Arrangement would be reviewed periodically. We only just received the review, I think, a few days ago, on 8 December. It must be fair to me that this is not, of course, in time for this debate. I find that problematic, too. Can the President explain why we had to receive this so late? I am, of course, curious about the Minister's first reflection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u17	You said, "Can the chairman state..." But don't you mean the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u18	Yes. Did I say "president"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u20	You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u21	You scared the shit out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u22	A correction for the Acts, Chairman. Yes, you're absolutely right. Mr President, concluding. Today is a fine reflection moment for this minister. That also seems to me to be a good conclusion to the debate on this Autumn note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u23	Fine. Thank you so much. Then there is Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A budget debate without the VVD; I have not seen that before. But I think they're still meeting. If I listen to the first messages, Mrs Kaag has delivered a whole pile of melons that they are now devouring there. I look forward to tomorrow, and I hope it is, because there is a lot of work to be done on the VVD's election programme if that is to be a little bearable. Mr. Chairman. I am speaking today on behalf of GroenLinks, because my colleague, Mr Van der Lee, had to be a Member of Parliament with another obligation. I'll start with purchasing power. It's gonna suck for next year. The cabinet has taken some measures, for example for the energy bill. There has also been serious money made available for this. But that does not alter the fact that people are all going backwards next year when you start on the zero line for everyone in the autumn; in the Social Affairs budget that zero line is announced. There is huge inflation and there are energy price increases and higher petrol prices, as the PVV said. There are also higher costs for groceries and the rents go up. Everything's getting more expensive. Then you can say "I'm a missionary and there's going to be a new cabinet" but the next cabinet has exactly the same composition. The economy is likely to grow next year, and we need to see that with corona, but we're going to take it from there, and people are going backwards. The PvdA is of course mainly concerned about the tenants, the elderly and the low and middle incomes. My question to the Minister is why he did not prevent this with the cabinet. That's just a political choice. It could've been with Najarsnota. In fact, I argued for this last week with Mr Maatoug. Mr. Chairman. My second main point concerns under-utilisation. That is a financial term, which means that the cabinet had all plans that did not deliver. This is reflected in the broad budget, and it now appears in the Navy's note. About the infrastructure you could say: well, there were very few trains in the corona year and very few cars went by road and that, although it is a miserable reason, is just an opportunity to do extra repair and maintenance. But nothing could be further from the truth. There are all under-utilisations in infrastructure: by rail, by water, across the board. I'm also calling it "Defense." It is well known that the Minister is very much in favour of making extra money available for defence, but it is not being spent, not on the military, not on material, not on investment, actually on nothing. On the whole, what was budgeted last year is not being realised. That's what worries me. Or take the subsidies for renewable energy. The climate is not a problem for some parties, but it is a problem for this cabinet. There's 365 million left on the shelf. A large part of the opposition has been warning us all year: be more clear about what you want to stimulate. And now it's just on the shelf. What I found very amazing was the social lawyer, the legal aid. There are huge deficits there. I read an interview this weekend with Anker and Anker, the famous Friesland penalists. They also said: you're actually doing it just because of your social involvement, but for the hours you put in it, of course, you can't do it. And then I don't understand why tens of millions of people are left lying around for social lawyers and haven't been spent on them, when there are such shortages. Or nitrogen. There is a huge problem with housing and the housing shortage; I do not have to convince anyone of that. And there was 133 million available to buy out farmers, I say by heart. That was not so much to buy out those farmers as to make housing possible there. That's what we figured out last year: that's what we're gonna do. But it's not true. And, as is well known in the Finance Committee and, unfortunately, also in the supplement parents, the compensatory allowance is not going as planned either. There was money for that too, to pay out to parents before 1 December. So that doesn't end up in that place. I ask the Minister to go into all seven areas. How is it that the cabinet has such plans, but they are always not being implemented? Mr. Chairman. My third and final point concerns both Groningen and Limburg. Groningen first. It's known that the NAM doesn't want to pay the bills. How does the Minister ensure that NAM continues to fulfil its obligations for years? You see the bill going up. The cabinet's still guessing it'll get the money next year, but you'll just have to see if they'll finally pay. I also have a somewhat more technical question about this. The Navy note says, I believe in the last sentence, that new earthquakes have not yet been taken into account. Well, I can give the Minister one thing on a note: there will be new earthquakes in Groningen. They're still out there every week. If that's not already in the estimates, how does he get the NAM to pay for it? And shouldn't the estimates be adjusted? Mr. Chairman. My final point is Limburg. The cabinet said, because of the floods this summer, that it is going to compensate. We really have the question whether this is enough with the budgets that are now available. I also ask the Minister to respond. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u25	Very good. Then Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA group. As it now seems, I'm going to suspend dinner after the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Autumn note gives an overview of the budgetary implications of the information we had at the time of the Millions Note. Normally you have a clear view of what's coming, but that's different now. The coming period, the lockdown, will have an impact on revenue. There is no other way than that this will also have consequences on the expenditure side. Mr. Chairman. This is what my predecessor started last year's reflections. Unfortunately, I can repeat these sentences this year. On the basis of the Autumn note, the budget seems to have come into a calmer water. The EMU deficit has improved and the EMU debt ratio has fallen by more than a percentage point. In addition, there is notable tax revenue. This was already visible in the Millions Note, but this has continued to strengthen. But nice closing figures don't say everything. They're not saying anything about how we got there, and they're not offering any guarantees for the future. Let's talk about the future. Our economy is still full of major structural risks and uncertainties. In addition, recent developments around the fourth corona wave and rising inflation. Is inflation a temporary thing, or should we get used to inflation as it used to be? Almost 40 years ago, inflation was as high as it is today, but the situation is incomparable; there was high unemployment, high interest rates and a doused housing market. Everywhere articles were published about a lost generation, the twentiests of that time. The fashion was black, the music was hard, punk was in and a lost generation was a fact. It was like the Sex Pistols sang: there's no future for you, no future for me. Much has changed since then, but the music remains fun, although the opinions will be divided. Let me go back to the question of inflation: temporary or structural? Here too, there are divided opinions. I notice that many great economists have no answer to this question either. I hear economists making statements like "there's more that we don't understand than we do understand." I also hear words as "unexpectedly high" from the mouth of the ECB's chief economist. That indicates something. I can simply say: how can we, as politicians, know and make the right choices? But that would be too easy. First of all, I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's going to monitor these developments. Is he willing to pay explicit attention to this issue in the Spring Paper, the Millions Note and the Autumn Note? What is the current state of affairs? What scenarios does the Minister see in front of him? What steps are being taken to anticipate this or not? It is for us as a Chamber to continue the conversation about it with each other, because it is just desperately needed. Mr. Chairman. Dealing with uncertainty is of all times, and that's okay. But dealing with uncertainty without good insight is an unwise combination. The government does not give a complete overview of its assets and their value. Visibility of possession and associated budgets for management, maintenance and replacement should be the most common thing in the world. But it is not, as is apparent from an inventory by the General Court. What are we supposed to think about? The state's ownership ranges from real estate to stocks of vaccines, from defence equipment to ICT systems. Its operation and maintenance entail costs. Now it is often impossible to check the state of maintenance. So there is no public accountability, while everything has ever been bought with public money. Rear maintenance can have a direct impact on citizens and businesses. I have spoken before about the lack of maintenance of the tax authorities' systems, because that is exemplary and unacceptable. We know the maintenance of these systems isn't right, but we don't know how bad it is. And what's most exciting is: we don't know what it's gonna cost society if we don't do something. We ask if the Minister can reflect on this issue. How is he going to improve the understanding of this issue? Because if I'm being very honest, burying without these insights is like buying an old lady's car on the Internet without even looking under the hood. Mr. Chairman. In the Autumn note, we are also struck by the fact that EUR 312.5 million is being transferred from the earmarked funds for the loss of revenue of municipalities as a result of corona for 2020 to 2022. From the allocated funds for 2021, 200 million will be transferred to 2022. Can the Minister indicate what is causing these resources to be left? Because it seems clear to us that municipalities incur a lot of costs because of corona. Is that money left because they didn't need it, is the financial processing of municipalities lagging behind or are there expenditures from municipalities that are not compensated but have been promised? I am thinking, for example, of forsaken rents from municipalities to entrepreneurs because of corona. We also see an under-utilisation of the HGIS funds of EUR 94 million. That money is not unnecessary if we look at a recent UN report, which states that in 2022 274 million people will need emergency aid. Does the Minister see any possibility of making additional expenditure on humanitarian aid once out of under-utilisation in order to provide short-term support? Or can he, together with his colleagues in the Foreign Office, look at ways of working together on this issue or passing it on to a future cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Since it is almost the end of the year, I would like to conclude with a reflection for 2022. I was helped by the opinion of Mr Putters and Mrs Versantvoort in Het Financieele Dagblad. They write that we have to find out again what connects the Netherlands. "Consolidation is not free, but requires each individual to have the ability to live in the other and not to judge immediately or to live indifferently. It calls for the creation of a common and binding story. No better opportunity than a Christmas dinner to do this on a small common level. And then after the celebrations for society as a whole. The Netherlands needs it." I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment over the past period and wish him well for the future. While I am standing here at the end of the year, I would also like to wish all my colleagues in the Chamber happy days in the coming week with the people who are important to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u27	We like that very much, how nice. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u28	I like to join in such warm words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u29	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u30	The atmosphere is bad, too. That's always good. I wish Mrs Van Dijk in particular. I'm kind of looking at how the CDA is looking at next year's purchasing power. The CDA is a party that always says: working must pay and we all have to take a little advantage of it if the economy is going well. I called it "bad." I wonder what Mrs Van Dijk actually thinks. Is she even okay with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u31	I certainly don't like it that way. I'm worried. I think, above all, that we should monitor things closely with each other. In my speech, I tried to indicate the following. Look at the inflation. You hear so many contradictory sounds. We don't know exactly. That is why I called the Minister and asked him for an answer. I said, "Take a good look at all the moments we stand here together so that we can have a good debate on this. I do miss a bit of the cabinet's vision at the moment we are standing here. How do they see it now? What do they suggest? What measures might be needed to help the Netherlands move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u32	Monitoring is always wise, but this is the last week in which we can do something. This is a financial budget debate. After that, there's nothing for another year. On 1 January, tax rates will enter into force and we will set everything. That's almost it. My question to Mrs Van Dijk is: why doesn't the current coalition do anything about it, if she doesn't like it? Why does she let it run for a year and should everyone just sit on the blisters next year because the formation apparently took so long? Why doesn't she intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u33	To speak with your own words, this cabinet may only have a day left. I would find it a little special to intervene on that now, when I myself belong to one of the parties that has been at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u34	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u35	Finally, Mr President. Yeah, the cabinet just got here, but that's exactly my problem. People went to the polls in March. They have nothing to do with how long it's all going to be here. But they're on the blisters from January 1st, or from the 23rd, when they get their salary or pension. Why didn't you intervene? I thought you had a majority with the current coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u36	At least we have tried to intervene in the area of energy compensation. Mr. Hammelburg also pointed it out: I think we've taken a little extra action, because we don't just leave everyone on the blisters. If something really needs to happen, we will stand for it. We did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u37	The CDA used to be known as a party for farmers and the family. The peasants are being abandoned as hard as they can. In fact, billions are being released to buy out the farmers, actually to scare them away from the Netherlands. You're gonna go with that whole left-wing climate and nitrogen crap. The farmers must leave: rather no more farmers, according to the CDA. That's what billions of dollars are made available for. The family also drops the CDA hard, because recent research shows that 2.5 million families in the Netherlands are struggling to pay their bills. What have you done for these families over the past year and the year before? They now have even more trouble with higher prices. What do you do for the families? You've already abandoned the farmers. But is there anything else for the families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u38	I would nevertheless like to give the politically correct answer, namely the question to be addressed tomorrow on the basis of the document you are receiving. Then come back to me. Then we will continue to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u39	That's tomorrow. They're gonna be promises again, like, we're gonna do better. But the CDA's been on the buttons for four years. The result of four years of CDA work is that 2.5 million families are in financial misery, that 2.5 million families cannot pay their bills, that 1 million families have to live in poverty. I mention all those children who have to live in poverty, people who are now looking in the cold. Maybe they even turned off the television because of the electricity bill. That's CDA for four years. Now you're going to hope that people will fall for it for the next four years. Do you think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u40	I'm there myself. I have a controlling task as a Member of Parliament, so I'll keep my finger on the wrist very tight, as you're used to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u41	An important reason why purchasing power is likely to decline in the coming year is inflation. Does the CDA agree with me that we should not wait until spring for a new estimate, but that we should have a new estimate now, because inflation is much faster than expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u42	I'm very fond of saying yes, but I've been looking into the issues over the past few weeks. As a new Member of Parliament, there are a lot of things where you think: what exactly is that about? What struck me most of all is that a lot of people constantly contradict each other about what is happening. So I'm kind of looking, in the sense that if we ask for something today, it won't be obsolete in two weeks. We have a number of fixed moments here to talk to each other and make decisions. Let us make good use of these moments and, on the basis of a good overview, a look-through and a vision of the cabinet, let us engage in a debate with each other. If you're asking me if I'm worried, I'm saying yes. If you ask me if we should pay more attention to it, my answer is yes. I would therefore like to have it very tight in the process to look at it structurally rather than just doing it now because it seems to be difficult for a moment. I think it's a subject that you need to have on the agenda with each other all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u43	I fully agree that we need to look at it more structurally. Tomorrow at the procedural meeting, I will propose to ask several professors about their views on inflation development. So we can do that anyway. But the official figure of the Central Planning Bureau doesn't arrive until spring. So basically the CDA is saying: we can wait until spring. Is that what this is all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u44	No, I'm not saying that. I say we keep the finger on the wrist all the time. If you come up with a proposal tomorrow, I will wholeheartedly support it, because it is a point that we too are concerned about. Just, I kind of feel like if you asked three people, you'd get three different answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u45	Fine, thank you. No, that wasn't another question, Mr. Alkaya. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Grinwis, but he also shines through his absence. What would be going on with those coalition financial spokesmen? Well, we're gonna find out sometime. We are now going to listen to Mrs Gündoğan from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u46	Of course, that is the way the debate is progressing! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a passage from the book "They killed my father" by Édouard Louis. I quote: "For people who have everything, I have never seen a family go to sea to celebrate a political decision, because for them politics changes almost nothing. That's weird. They do politics when politics has almost no influence on their lives. For the ruling class, politics is usually an aesthetic issue, a way to think about itself, a way to see the world, to build itself. For us, politics was a matter of life or death." Mr. Chairman. Poverty destroys people and here in the Chamber we talk too little about it. About how poverty in many cases is the source of the many unwanted consequences, global, continental and national. Globally, it leads to conflicts and migration. Continental leads to populism and national leads to 15 years less healthy and six years earlier die. The corona crisis has only aggravated this, as the Volkskrant wrote less than a year ago. And then a year of extra pandemic and this cold and expensive winter had to come. Because I'm worried about the coming winter. Economists are breaking their heads about rising inflation in Europe, which is threatening the livelihoods of more and more people. We know that by now more than half a million people are worried if they can still warm their homes, let alone make their homes more sustainable. We also read in the Navy's note how inequality of opportunity in education robs people of a bright future. In addition, the ESC points out that our country has more than a diverse group of 200,000 working poor. But poverty also destroys our economy and society as a whole. It robs our labour market of talent, takes on a huge amount of our healthcare costs and makes big transitions in the area of climate and digitalisation more difficult if we do not include people in those transitions. That is why Volt argues for an integrated approach to poverty, both in terms of the economic and financial importance of our country's future, and in terms of humanity and justice, because they are one side of the same coin. To this end, I will have my motion from the VWS budget debate on a pilot for the fight against poverty in the near future put to the vote. I would like a response from the Minister of Finance to that motion. Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to take the necessary steps, we have to increase both the cake, divide the classic right-hand story, as well as the classic left-hand story. First of all, we need to make the cake bigger. With the funds from the European Corona Restoration Fund, we can boost digitalisation, fundamental research and climate. We need to take digitisation much more seriously in our economic innovation battle, especially as the Netherlands, in which a lot of digital infrastructure that keeps Europe running comes together. What investments are being made to make our knowledge-based economy and infrastructure future-proof? Is there enough support for ongoing initiatives and knowledge in the rest of Europe? But we also need to look beyond these funds. We can achieve much if, for example, we increase the employment rate of women or map much more the second-order effects of investment in both unbound and mission-driven research. I have said it before: McKinsey, it will not be unknown to the Minister. It has once calculated that our GNP can grow by 114 billion if women go to work more. That seems like a really nice way to make the cake bigger. Mr. Chairman. The RRF offers nice leads to distribute the cake more fairly, such as the reforms it demands from the Netherlands on our housing and labour markets. What does the Minister think of the agreement reached by the trade unions and employers' organisations in the framework of zero-hour contracts and flex works last summer? Of course, we must also join other European initiatives, such as the proposal to increase the minimum wage or to increase support for the climate transition through the social climate fund. In this light, how does the Minister look at the European plan to renovate homes and offices with a very low energy label within ten years? At the fiscal level, as the ESC points out, we need to tax unearned wealth more heavily by making work pay, by reducing the high marginal tax burden on people who work from a minimum wage to a modal income, and by addressing the complexity of the bonus system. How does the Minister look at the proposals made by the ESC in last September's report? Mr. Chairman. In this way, we ensure that the burden on the large, essential transitions is mainly borne by those with the greatest capabilities and benefits mainly benefit those who need it most, which also makes our economy more resilient as a whole. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with what I started with, namely that politics is not an aesthetic issue for many people, but a question of life or death. Let us, together as a Chamber, make sure, with a new cabinet, that no one lags behind in dealing with the great transitions that we as the Netherlands and Europe have to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u47	Thank you. Then Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr. Chairman. Hans van Mierlo, former leader of D66, once described a budget as follows: "The budget is just like a blanket in winter: when one draws him, the other is in the cold." The solution is, of course, to make the blanket as large as possible, so that everyone can warm themselves. But also the blanket itself has a price. The government has to pay it out of tax revenue. If the blanket gets too big, taxpayers will be in the cold. Our current Prime Minister once made a remark about hubris. He addressed it to, I presume, the Labour Party. He said, "If you give socialists control over the desert, the sand will be gone in no time." By the sand, of course, he meant money. In the meantime, however, I wonder whether the Prime Minister himself is affected by this accusation. Within the EU, the Netherlands is already one of the frontrunners of net contributors, but the biggest fiscal wave becomes climate policy, with a large range of taxes, excise duties and taxes. The energy transition is very expensive and has many unevenness in the mix. The taxpayer must pay for this and, to speak with Van Mierlo, the middle class comes in the cold. The intellectual honesty commands me to say that parliaments often make things worse. Once upon a time, parliaments were a means of power for citizens to counter the spillover of kings and emperors. Budgetary law was the instrument for this purpose. In the nineteenth century, the House of Representatives fought the spillover of the various Williams of Orange at that time, Willem I, II and II. That original task, protecting the citizen from the emptiness of the state, has been forgotten. Parliament demands more money for many things. Thorbecke, an example for the current Prime Minister, once said: art is not a government matter. He said that in 1863. A prime minister who would say that now is sent into the desert as a cultural barbarian. If there's money left, the reflex is: spend, now! Rather, if there was a surplus of 6 billion, we would be throwing it at the climate. What does this Navy note show? There's 3,1 billion extra taxpayers' money collected this year. A financial windfall. There is 1.4 billion in under-exhaustment on various expenditures. That money goes back to the pot. Let's think for a moment and not come up with lists for next year's destinations. Think also of the taxpayer who is in the cold these days because he no longer has a blanket. JA21 prefers a return to fiscal conservatism. This means dealing responsibly with public finances for the benefit of the Dutch citizen. Think, for example, of lower burdens. Then the surplus will be returned. However, I see the burden of citizens increasing every year. I have a few examples of that. The Rutte IV government, which will take office, will spend 20 to 30 billion on tackling nitrogen, while the nitrogen deposition has been falling for years, as Minister Schouten acknowledged. In the German coalition agreement, Minister, you speak well German, the word "Stickstoff" occurs once, so once. A Stickstoffkrise is certainly not the case with our eastern neighbours. The failure of asylum policy also became apparent in 2021. Municipalities are now even forced to accept asylum seekers. That is an unprecedented state centralism. In addition, the Rutte IV cabinet is going to spend billions on climate next year alone 6 to 7 billion more. The middle class has to cough that up. I therefore ask the Minister, and the Chamber, not to forget the tax-paying citizen. Otherwise, the upcoming Rutte IV cabinet will end up in the desert, biting in the sand. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Lord be with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u49	Thank you. That's always good to hear. Then Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u50	Mr. Chairman. This year's note is also in full focus on corona. But in all this violence, it is very important to keep an eye on what does not have to do with corona, because there is enough about that in the Navy note. The Minister once said, not so long ago, at the start of the corona crisis, that we should fasten the seat belts, because there would be big expenses. But in the meantime, that looks a bit like the story of the PVV... seems to have loosened the reins. That's what I heard in your contribution, Mr. Van Dijck. Money seems to be available for everything. If the signals are correct, even billions of funds will be set up for all kinds of expenditure from tomorrow. There are, of course, fundamental objections to this, but I assume that we will discuss it later. Two years ago, the salmon standard was released. This Autumn note shows that EUR 5.4 billion is spent more than agreed, and that is excluding expenditure on corona. But those budgetary rules were there for a reason. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. Does he agree with me that firm budgetary rules are urgently needed again? How's the Minister... if I understand D66 correctly, there'll be another minister. How will the Minister of Finance ensure that sound financial policies are restored? Mr. Chairman. The in=terminal is also very high, over EUR 1.8 billion. Is it not very likely that it will not be fully filled in, which will further violate the budgetary rules? But before I say more, Mr President, I see an interruption. Do you want me to stop for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u51	You should leave that to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u52	Yeah, I do, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u53	Mr. Hammelburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u54	Yeah, just for the Acts. I did open the question of what this minister is going to do and whether he can reflect on the past period, but of course I did not say anything about the dolls of the upcoming cabinet. Let's be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u55	Hey, that's too bad. We thought we had a nice scoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u56	I'll let this minister stay, if he makes it a bit solid. No further questions, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u57	Clear. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u58	Yeah, I'm on it. If the Minister continues, we'll see him later; he will tonight, I hope. Yeah, it's not gonna happen that fast, is it? I also believe that there is a claim of hundreds of millions from Europe waiting for us. That went wrong last year with the solar panels. That wasn't just a mistake, so my question is how we're going to avoid it in the future. Is there any need for additional action? Mr. Chairman. Then there's a whole other point. Much more has been taken out of the renewable energy reserve this year than expected, but in the meantime small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have been paying for high ODE charges for years, although they have barely reaped the benefits. A motion has been passed this afternoon, asking, among other things, for more overprogramming. But, yes, if there is so much money in the pot, not only can there be overprogramming in the SGP, but we also need to reduce the tax burden on entrepreneurs a lot. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to look at a reduction in revenue in addition to higher expenditure. A reduction in the ODE tax, in other words, to name it very specifically. How is the Minister going to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises will also benefit much more from the resources in the reserve? That is very important. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State for Finance, in examining the Tax Plan, has undertaken to inform the Chamber of the possibilities for more support for SMEs in making them more sustainable. I look forward to that, of course. My question is very specific when we can expect the result towards our Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then Defense, because Defense has been struggling with major financial deficits for years. This is reflected in the employability of equipment, but also, for example, in the maintenance of real estate, which is considerably behind schedule. That more money should go there is beyond question. But the money that goes there must of course be fully deployed. For years, we have seen considerable underexhaustment in the Defense Department, i.e. the money is not being spent. My specific question to the Minister is how he is going to ensure that the money is actually spent in future. For example, should there not be more overprogramming in this case? We would very much like a response to that, so that we are also in good shape for the future. Mr. Chairman. There is an under-utilisation of the HGIS funds of EUR 94 million. I am talking about development cooperation. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to use this money to meet humanitarian needs. In the light of covid and the many humanitarian crises in countries such as Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Myanmar, this is urgently needed. I'd like a comment on that, too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one point which may not be entirely appropriate to this debate, but which is very important. A motion on the strengthening of the own funding of civil society organisations receiving State aid was adopted in the Accountability debate. A letter was recently received on the preparation of the motions for resolutions tabled during this debate. In short, it states that the Minister is once again bringing the subsidy rules to the attention of the grant-giving ministries. That is, of course, fine, but it is not what my motion for a resolution asked for. My final question to the Minister is therefore very simple. How is the Minister going to carry out the motion and when can we see how it will work? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u59	That's very nice. Thank you. I just found out that two financial spokesmen of the coalition parties are absent. Mrs Van der Plas is not here either. I don't know what to deduce from that! Maybe she joined the coalition talks; we don't know that. I call Mr Ephraim... Yes, of what? From the Haga Group. Then I'll suspend for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tax revenues are not so bad, public debt is developing better than expected and a cabinet with fresh new impetus and a new culture is coming. In short, to Campert: life is vurrukkulluk. I just told my friend Godwine, a theater technician who's worried and what's in the pit. "Olav, what do you mean? They wouldn't let me work, then they gave me Tozo. Not after that, because my wife has a job, and now she doesn't. Normally I still have the outlet to train at the gym with my team at night, but the curfew." I said, "But Minister De Jonge knows what he's doing." Godwin sighed: "Yeah right, and Max Verstappen is a cyclist. Sure, but the stove doesn't burn, does it?" "But why don't you do something else? You can become a farmer and people are always needed in the catering industry." His destructive gaze silenced me. "And the euro is going really well. Senor Draghi himself said: the EU will do whatever it takes to save Italy, and believe me, it will be enough." Godwin looked gloomy: "Will you help me?" "Of course, you want to borrow some money, do I have to look for a job, do you want to be a politician?" "No, please hold this plate while I smash it in the ground in the front yard." Of course, I was holding the sign with "For Sale." "Before the house goes to box 3, the interest rate due to the temporary "hahaha" rising inflation is in the elevator and Basel IV increases mortgage standards, I prefer to sell now. And besides, I wouldn't be surprised if the new left-wing cabinet were to impose expensive heat pumps or solar panels. And Olaf, the greenhouse with me is empty. I sell my car, too. Rumor has it that the VVD is going through the pump again and is going to enter billing. Then it ends in my appeal." I tried it one more time: "Great, you will own nothing and..." "Olaf, my family will not be happy. We live here nicely. Can we temporarily sleep with you and can we get a lift?" Of course, I said, and I cried bitter tears with him. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the interesting discussions we have had over the years. I've always asked for my taste very good questions that he's cleverly avoided. Anyway, by doing so one learns. It is the only ruler whose birthday I will never forget, because it is our birthday on the same day. I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u61	What a coincidence. What a coincidence. I'm suspending until 6:45. Then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u62	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Many thanks to Members for all the questions and comments they have made. Before you resumed the meeting, I got the impression that you wanted to make it short and painless. I will at least try to agree to that on my part. Moreover, many comments have been made, but not so many questions have been asked. So I can certainly make an attempt on that. I will make a few general comments and then talk briefly about public finances, inflation, a few things related to corona and some other things. Mr. Chairman. For the record, we are talking today about the Autumn note, the last budget note of the current year. Those are the adjustments that have been included in the revenue and expenditure for 2021 since Princess Day. There are, of course, a lot of other subjects, which I will not all leave behind. However, the danger in this kind of debate is always that you're getting a long way from home and you're just feeling the fight to cackle about things that you're not about at all. I'm gonna try to suppress that tendency. Mr. Chairman. The members of your Chamber undoubtedly have the main points of the Navy's note on the retina. In 2021, the cabinet expects about 2.3 billion more tax and premium revenues than we suspected on Princess Day. Due to high revenue and lower expenditure, EMU balance and EMU debt are lower than in the Millions Note. The EMU balance improves by 0.9 percentage points to 5.1% of GDP. EMU debt also improves. We all realise that the final settlement, especially in a year with so much volatility, and I also suspect a last quarter with a lot of volatility, will only come when we finalize the books and see the end of the financial year. As you know, that is always only in the course of next year. Mr Hammelburg and, in my view, Mr Stoffer asked about public finances. They asked about an evergreen in this debate. That's the in=terminal and the risk that you might or might not be able to fill that thing out. We have had this question in various variants during the various debates on the Autumn note. I remember Mr Nijboer asking why I wanted to fill in a part of it in a spring note at the time. Now we have an opposite style figure, namely that it is not yet fully filled out. Is that a risk? Yeah, in theory, that's a risk. At the same time, the hope and expectation that we will soon be able to report to the Reich's Annual Financial Report that there will be sufficient under-utilisation to complete that task. But it's not risk-free at all. I have also argued in previous budgetary debates that this is a reason for partly filling in the mandate at earlier times in the year. The reason we didn't do it is, of course, crystal clear. We have had a very special and very volatile year in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked about the unexploited resources in the areas of Infrastructure and Defence. I also had a déjà vu. Mr Nijboer added the funds that had not been used in the field of subsidies for renewable energy and that of social law. Honor to whom credit is due: that is what he has often accused the cabinet of. And I have often argued that this had to do with the level of ambition, and that he should recognize himself in that. Then he often said back that it should have been spent faster. And fair is fair: part of it did, but part of it didn't. This has been a theme at the beginning of the cabinet period, but also at later times when we have made substantial extra money available. I have argued before that, for example, the design of the infrastructure budget and the defence budget makes it less difficult for you to have a problem there. It's easier to put off the expenses for you in the system. And of course, you always have the year-end margin. But in itself, Mr Nijboer obviously has another point here. Mr Stoffer asked me whether I agree that we need firm budgetary rules again. Then there came a narcissistic wounding of size, because he said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u64	Mr Nijboer would like to ask a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u65	The Minister is right: it does, of course, matter where it is. Infrastructure and the Department of Defense cares a lot. If the bridge is paid just a month later, it's a big deal. But I call legal aid, for example. That's an extravagant affair, too. I call it the social lawyer. I refer to the whole debate in society on what the legal protection of people is. In addition, it is striking that large sums of money remain to support these matters. It's not even a rounding difference. I'm really wondering, how is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u66	I can say in general terms that it also has to do with the fact that the cabinet has made large sums of money available, at least from the cabinet's point of view. Then it's always harder to make it. The second point is that I did not get to know colleagues in the cabinet as people who did not want to spend the money they had. The dialogue was often about whether they could spend more money. So I have to refer to colleagues on the specific issues, but it is not unwilling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u67	Minister Dekker has really raised some problems for the social lawyer. During the ride, the cabinet came back to the vision of "find it for itself and discourage it a little" that he had on it. But that is why I specifically ask for it. There is a minister who says that there is too much Juridification and we actually have to get rid of those people. Mr Van Nispen mentioned that too, and the cabinet says that after these surcharges it is really going to do something about it, but the money is not being spent. Then it doesn't end up there. Does the Minister agree with me that that really is a concern and a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u68	In general terms, I agree with Mr Nijboer that you should try to budget the money as specifically as possible. You don't do that with the goal of holding it all in your pocket then, but because you expect that to be real spending. Two. I have always argued here that I still believe that these are the maximum expenditure frameworks. You don't have to be ashamed if you don't spend it all. I really understand a part of Mr Nijboer's criticism, but I would not want to narrow Mr Dekker's vision down to what he said. "Find out for yourself." Perhaps that is a little too short, if only because he spoke on behalf of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked for firm budgetary rules to restore sound financial policies. Of course, that hurt a lot, but I understood it in such a way that he referred to the corona problem in particular. It's me, no matter how he meant it, I agree with him. I think this is one of the reasons why we have had a difficult discussion over the last few decades about money, not to say very often having difficult discussions about money. It helps very much for peace, cleanliness and regularity to have clear agreements on what times in the year you spend the money under what conditions you spend it, how you do it with the income and how you do it with the expenses. I would therefore be very much in favour of continuing to do so. We all know, by the way, that this type of subject is changing from time to time. In contrast to what is sometimes thought, the initial salmon standard was mainly intended to stabilise expenditure. On the revenue side, there was much more room in it. Increasingly, we have started applying the salmon standard to both the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. But on the whole, I totally agree. Mr Hammelburg asked about the many ISBs. He also wanted to return to integrated decision-making. I agree with him very much. I fully endorse the opinion of the Study Group on Budget Space. That's what I and the Treasury have put all kinds of thick lines under. I'm not going to dare return to the department tonight without saying so. I therefore agree with Mr Hammelburg. I also very much support what I have said here on many occasions, namely the views of the Study Group. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another big issue: inflation. If I'm being very honest, it only lends itself half to the debate we have here. There is a specific debate on this subject tomorrow, I believe, with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, but let me say a few things about it. I agree with everyone, Mr Van Dijck, but others also argued that the fair answer is that no one knows exactly how long high inflation will last, what components are structural in it and how high it will rise. That's how honest you have to be. That is what I have always argued here in the Netherlands in debate with you. That is also what I have argued in Europe. So those who have said with great certainty at previous times that inflation is likely to go down very quickly have almost all been overtaken by time. So it turns out it's very difficult to predict it properly. I also refer to the discussions that took place among economists a year ago. Then you met very few economists who predicted what we've been through over the last 12 months. In fact, until shortly before energy prices exploded this autumn, there was virtually no one, not even internationally, who said: there is going to be a huge peak in energy prices, with inflation and with that pressure on households. Let's take that as a first consideration. I see someone snuck to the microphone, so I'm gonna take a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u69	I almost let myself be taken by the Minister's wonderful compliment that he agrees with me, because that does not always happen either. But my question about the ISBs went a little further than that. Once again, I commend the cabinet and acknowledge what has happened in the corona pandemic, what this has meant for financial decision-making and how complicated it is. I have also talked about the control function of the Chamber and the question of how we return to the old... to a better normal. In view of the fact that the Netherlands will have to deal with any crises in the future, what lessons has the Minister learned in relation to financial decision-making, the role of the Chamber, its control function and the integral decision-making moments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u70	Let me not make a complete assessment of all the financial and economic aspects of the corona policy, because this debate on the Navy note is not the right time, but here too, as much rest, cleanliness and regularity as possible is a good starting point. As far as the ISBs are concerned, we've learned from each other. Whether I like it or not, the Court of Auditors I have to relate to it, of course, said that it did not go well in all cases towards the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. We have therefore looked even more strongly at this from the financial perspective, especially in the last nine months, also because we wanted to take the feedback from the Court of Auditors to heart. At the same time, the style figure of the ISBs, of the occasional supplies, is inevitable if the Chamber and the Cabinet jointly decide that more money should be spent on a particular subject, so also if they decide to raise a leg because of the corona policy. It is inevitable, but I agree with Mr Hammelburg and, by the way, with the Court of Auditors. This remains relevant, especially since it cannot be ruled out that, however unfortunate, we continue to swim around in the corona marsh. Mr President, I thought I would resume the debate on inflation, but I can see from Mr Hammelburg that I am too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u71	Thanks again to the Minister for the answer, but I honestly do not know whether I think this is a real answer. Yeah, we learned we could do better. The Court of Auditors has also noted this. My question was whether the Minister could perhaps mention a few things about what that is, because we as a Chamber should also learn how to deal with this for the next crises that may come towards us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u72	Well, I guess I'm gonna have to do some kind of bigger introspection. There are all kinds of other things where Mr Hammelburg asked for reflection. Let me take one big topic out of it. Grosso mode it is, I think, wise what Wiebes, Koolmees and I have done in the first phase of the crisis. By the way, we were assisted by the three State Secretarys and, of course, by the fantastic official team of the three ministries. All kinds of things you do, or I do, not right. But I think that one of the things that we have seen fairly well and rather sharply...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's where the utterances about the deep pockets come from. During one of the first weekends, we immediately had the consultation in which we, by the way, the departments of SZW and EZK in particular, started with the arrangements. Mr Hammelburg asked: what did not go well in that? We have of course made it for an acute emergency. In hindsight you might have to say that at a later point you would have preferred to reflect on the question: what if it doesn't take another two or three months, but if you're stuck with it for two years? There was almost no one who thought that then, but would we have, then I suspect someone would have asked: "How do we deal with who really needs it in the longer term? How do we deal with the discussion about customisation in the longer term?" Let us be quite honest: that is a discussion that haunts us to this day, and that is what I can also charge myself for, and perhaps no better answer for. But we could have thought about that sooner. How do you deal with fraud or improper use? There are a lot of refunds. In many cases, that is not fraud or misuse, but there are also situations where I really think: was taxpayers' money meant to do so? Actually, no. Similarly, there are entrepreneurs, we speak of all those who, on the one hand, are satisfied that they are getting the money, but on the other hand, say: "When can I open up again? Because apart from all good intentions, this is not enough to survive." That's all tied up. I hope that this is at least more of an answer. I see that Mr Hammelburg is gloating in his chair and too kirren in his chair, so I shall continue with inflation. I had just explained, or no, explained, so I have to formulate why it is my perspective that it is very difficult to make firm statements about the height and duration of inflation. That is not to say that I find it more to central bankers and economists than to myself. I think it would be wise if everyone who comes up with a perspective also added that this is not an exact science and that this is surrounded by a lot of uncertainty. Mr Van Dijck asked why house prices were not included in the inflation figures. I believe that this is also an echo of a debate we have had before. That is really up to the CBS and Eurostat, for example. The inflation rate of the CBS does give a value to the use of its own house. That is, of course, quite different, so I know that Mr Van Dijck is going to explain to me that that is less than half an answer to the question, but I should like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u73	I noticed that you were just having a kind of virtual debate with Mr Nijboer, including questions and answers. That is what you are doing with Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u74	Inflation was estimated at 5.6% last month. It's killing people's purchasing power. Everything becomes much more expensive and people feel that, in the supermarket, the clothes, the energy bill, at the pump and you name it. This minister rests a little in that and says: yes, we will see what inflation is doing. He acts like inflation is some kind of ghost, something that happens to him, but he can of course intervene. When inflation was low, interest rates went to zero and the central bank pulled everything out of the closet to get inflation up. They couldn't, but they pulled everything out of the closet. Now inflation is high and this minister can also pull things out of the closet, such as lowering the bpm so that a car becomes cheaper, lowering the excise duty on petrol so that a litre of petrol at the pump becomes cheaper and abolishing the energy tax so that the bill goes down again and so inflation goes down. Why doesn't this minister do that? Why is he in that inflation rate? He's standing there looking at it. Maybe it'll be 6% next week and 8% next week. People don't even have money to bite on a stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u75	I must say that it is even more nuanced than Mr Van Dijck is now putting forward. In any case, I would like to thank him for all the compliments he has made in the first twenty seconds of his term. On the contrary, I have always argued that we must do something about this. Moreover, a few months ago, partly on the initiative of the Chamber, the cabinet was very much in the pouch for this and said: we are going to do something generic, but because we also want to help the people with a small grant and because we see how big the problem is, we also come up with things that are not custom-made but that do help that group. Let me put it in perspective. What we did then was factors higher, factors more, than what our southern neighbours, for example, have done. They also have a different system. They have undoubtedly done other sensible things, but to remain in the metaphor that Mr Van Dijck addresses: it was not a small beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u76	No, it wasn't a small beer, but the beer at the southern neighbors is still cheaper than in the Netherlands. And also the petrol at the southern neighbors is cheaper than in the Netherlands. The same goes for the eastern neighbors. Half the border area runs its groceries and fills up with our neighbors. We're all losing excise duty. This minister says we're doing so well. He's putting a Band-Aid on the high-energy bill, and that's it. What's he doing about the gas price? What does he do about the high VAT?. Our eastern neighbors don't have 21% VAT, you know. They have 19% VAT. You could reduce VAT. That does something with inflation. That brings inflation down, but you don't. You think rather: how can we make VAT even higher? The result is even more inflation and more payment problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u77	Mr Van Dijck also knows that this is not reasonable and that this is not in line with what he asked me earlier in debates. I understand and appreciate this style figure in a sense, but I also think he knows what my answer is to that. Mr Alkaya asked for a new estimate. I agree with Mr Alkaya that the inflation picture is, of course, subject to change, but it is really up to the CPB as an independent body to report on this. I understand that this will be done at least in the spring. At the CEP in March there will be a new inflation and purchasing power picture. In the meantime, I have no option of doing anything else, apart from the general sources that we all have at our disposal, of course. I have answered Mr Van Dijck's question. In any event, the Cabinet will report to the Spring Note, or so much earlier through the CPB, that the data are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u78	I remember in the very beginning of the corona crisis we got scenarios from the Central Planning Bureau about what happens to the economy and the state finances when there is a second wave or no second wave, or when there is a third wave or not. So is the Minister saying he can't make such a request to the Central Planning Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u79	No. In the last four years, I have always argued to the Study Group and to the Planning Offices in the Chamber that, given their independence, it would be wise for them themselves to discuss their agenda, but that there is no objection that I should refer them to the minutes of the deliberations that have taken place here. They may or may not benefit from it. So I would like to be willing to do that in this case too, but it is neither in my power nor in my intention to order the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u80	Well, technically, that could be right. But if the Minister indeed states that he has spoken to the House of Representatives and says that he is concerned about inflation in the Netherlands, that there is a lot of uncertainty and that the Chamber does not want to wait until spring but wants to look at scenarios for how that might develop, then the Central Planning Bureau is so sensitive and sensitive that it is considering this, I think. The Minister's commitment to this is noted. We would like to hear it if the Minister would like to return to us what the Central Planning Office has answered. 'Cause, of course, we'll get a coalition agreement tomorrow. At some point, there will be a government agreement, and it would be really marvellous if, in passing on the purchasing power figures, it was assumed that there would be an inflation rate of 1.9% again. Well, that doesn't add up to reality. Then we must make our own assessments of what it really is. The Minister shouldn't want that, should he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u81	I'll take the reflections just for notification. I assume that the future Prime Minister is looking forward to the exchange of views with the SP Group on this issue. Mr Alkaya also asked what was the message from the cabinet to the European Central Bank. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Hij had ook nog een redenering over het achter gesloten deuren vergaderen.]] To be honest, I thought... of course there is a meeting behind closed doors. This is often explained. I would like to repeat once again that the ECB is responsible for price stability in the euro area and also operates in complete independence. It is, of course, up to Members of Parliament to make statements about this, but I find it difficult to do so on my own until the bitter end of this cabinet period. That is disappointing for Mr Alkaya, but it is consistent. Hopefully he'll agree to that, too. Mr Hammelburg asked about the moment of compensation. I can say that the solution discussed with the municipalities by the SZW Secretary of State should be the so-called categorical special assistance. This means that municipalities can, of their own motion, make a contribution to the target groups they have in mind, i.e. without an application. Mrs Gündoğan, and I think Mr Nijboer too, asked about the position of the poor and their purchasing power. It is quite right that they should ask for that. That's exactly why we came up with that three-stage missile. That was in October, I thought, shortly after the autumn recess. The first part concerned a generic concession, the second was a specific repair at the bottom and the third was an amount, and I believe that the Minister of State has direct responsibility for this in order to spend money on very practical things in the field of insulation. Think of door pushers and that sort of thing. For example, we tried to serve the whole society, but in particular the bottom, because it all had to be done quickly. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a few questions about corona. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the corona compensation for municipalities. In this context, more than 84 million were transferred to municipalities and a few million to provinces as compensation for their loss of income. In every round of compensation, we have always looked very clearly at what is going on for municipalities. Certainly the members who have been here for a long time remember that at the beginning we even took full account of how, for example, parking fees in municipalities suddenly came under pressure. All in all, we also came up with a sensible and balanced recipe towards the fellow governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u82	So you are actually saying that the amounts that are still available are not necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u83	That's a very short turn. I really should take a look at that. I know that $84 million has been transferred to the Navy's Note. In any case, we have just decided on a new aid package, some of which also go through municipalities. But in order to be able to say whether or not it is necessary, I really should study it as well. If I were to say "yes, it's right; it's not necessary," I'd have to be sure, otherwise I wouldn't only have a fight with the Minister of State, but potentially also with the municipalities. It is about 359 municipalities that our country is rich. I'm gonna have to make a pass there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u84	But can I possibly look forward to the answer in writing later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u85	I'd like to give you my word on that. So that's what I'm gonna fix here. Mr Alkaya asked if the hospitals would be in trouble because of insurance companies holding hands during the covid crisis. That's not my picture. During the crisis, all kinds of additional costs for covid care have been reimbursed. There have also been agreements on catching up care. In addition, turnover losses of hospitals have also been reimbursed by insurers. Mr Hammelburg asked about the reports on the purchase and sale of mouth caps. If it is correct, the Chamber received a letter last Friday, which I would like to refer to. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of things I do not want to say that the blanks are still in the category. By the way, there are still quite a few. Mr Hammelburg asked if I could explain why the Chamber was so late in receiving information on the Periodic Review Scheme, the so-called RPE. This scheme has been updated on the basis of experience with the Quality Insight Programme. An opinion of the General Court has also been delivered. The concept is then aligned with the departmental departments. That's ahead of your room now. Those are the steps we've had to go through. Of course, we all have to do this in the right order. But if Mr Hammelburg says 'the next time I want it not only good, but also faster', I will try to have it stored in the official memory. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked about his motion on civil society organisations. He said I should go ahead and do the motion and ask when we can see the outcome. I'm just gonna take a look at him to see if I can sum it up properly. The answer is that my colleagues are considering strengthening their own funding by grant recipients. What I promise them, and what I will do, is that, from my system of responsibility in the various bodies, I will draw attention to the strengthening of own funding by grant recipients. I will come back to a more precise term in the second term, because I do not have it sharper. If Mr Stoffer will allow me to do so, I will come back to that briefly in the second term. Mr Nijboer asked for another dossier which rightly deserves our attention, namely the progress of gas extraction. He specifically zooms in on the NAM and on the questions who pays the account in the event of new tremors and whether the estimates should be adjusted. The Cabinet shall ensure that all costs for which the NAM is liable can be actually charged. This applies, for example, to costs arising from new earthquakes. Think also of things like damage recovery. If it is correct, I have also mentioned in the Annex to the Autumn Note that those estimates will be updated in spring 2022. I think it's in there, too. Mr. Nijboer asked... no, I've had this one. I thought Mr Nijboer asked another question about the earthquakes. Let me see if I can find it soon. I thought he asked me two questions. If I do not have that at all, I will come back to that in the second term. Otherwise, I'm afraid he's gonna help me remember what it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u86	What surprised me was on page 27 of the Spring Note: for example, effects of possible new earthquakes were not included in this estimate. Then I think: how can you estimate damage and reinforcement costs if they weren't taken? Every year there are many dozens and sometimes hundreds of earthquakes. How's that? That was my one question. I got an answer to this, but I'm asking for it now. The other question is: how does the cabinet ensure that the NAM guarantees that damage for years and that it does not sink?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u87	On that first question: I do not make those estimates myself, so I honestly do not know which elements are involved. I know that every time people look very closely at which elements to take into account. Let us be quite honest: these estimates have changed regularly. These are often increased, given new developments; see also what happened last year. I think it's wise that you keep adjusting those estimates. As far as the second question is concerned, precisely because this is also a legal conflict, I want to stay close to the exact wording. So I will come back to that in the second term. I've seen that question, but I don't want to talk about freewheeling. I always find that unwise, given current court cases or conflicts, especially if the State is party to them. That shouldn't be too frivolous. So I say to Mr Nijboer that I will come back to that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the Court of Auditors' report on public ownership. She'd like to have more direction on that. The recommendations in the Court of Auditors' report, the view of state ownership, are also involved in the evaluation of the reporting system. That evaluation is currently under way and will take place in the first quarter of 2022. I'd almost like to say that she'll come to a theatre near you, but she'll just come to the Chamber. So that's what I'd like to link it to. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya and, in my view, Mr Stoffer asked about the claim from Europe. That was about the solar panels. It is quite clear: that is an account that we have paid, but have also disputed. That is what we are talking about, because it is better from the state's point of view to pay that bill first and thus stop the rising interest rate and then try to agree. Again, we dispute the claim, but you don't want to lose it right away and then you have to pay back the interest. That's why this route was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u88	That is not in itself unwise, but if you put it in that way, you could also expect the outcome that the claim is indeed justified. My second question was whether we are learning something from this. In fact, I have made it tighter: shouldn't we also take action on this? So my question is: is there any serious consideration to prevent us from getting back into a situation where we are having this kind of discussion with Europe and perhaps also having to pay a lot of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u89	The latter is absolutely happening. Of course, you always try to reflect on this kind of system, including those solar panels. I also asked myself at the time: first explain to me how this is possible, why the Commission considers it different from us and why we think that our opinion is the more sensible of the two. Of course, that's what you're always trying to figure out. This time it is also about relatively large money. But in general, I think that we and people do this quite accurately in the field of taxation and customs, because it is not a figure of style that we often have going on. So I did ask for this myself. That was not necessary at all, because we had that need ourselves, as Mr Hammelburg would say, for reflection: why did this work out as it did? In general, however, this is very accurate as far as I am concerned. And so I think it is also sensible in relation to interest rates, which go on and on, and where the question is whether you will get that interest income back if you win it. There's a part of the catch there, too. Then you'd better pay without recognizing your loss in the main dispute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u90	I also asked the Minister whether the result could be that there should be more structural payments and that a calculation should be adapted, which has structural consequences. Or is it really just occasional?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u91	The latter is my impression. If that is not the case, then I shall recover it in writing or in writing during this debate. Turning to Mrs Gündoğan's question on the integrated anti-poverty pilot: can I respond to the motion held during the debate on the VWS budget? What is vengeful about this is that the question is that that motion has been held and that the answer is that the outgoing cabinet has discouraged the motion. So I have to relate to that before I say anything ill-advised or sensible about it. I see Mrs Gündoğan looking in such a way that she is going to forgive me and give me full space for that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then support for the SME climate transition. In doing so, I am back with Mr Stoffer, who asked about something the Secretary of State for Finance promised to do when dealing with the Tax Plan, namely to inform the Chamber of the possibilities for more support for SMEs in terms of sustainability. I know that my colleague on Finance contacted his colleague on Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, and that a letter was sent by the cabinet at the beginning of November. I would therefore hope that this letter also reached Mr Stoffer himself. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Gündoğan asked for the European plan to renovate homes and offices with a very low energy label within ten years. We have very little information about that plan at the moment. You would think: who could be against the ambition to renovate things if they could be financially out and it is wise from the point of view of the environment, sustainability and the wallet? But your Chamber will be informed about this via the usual route, namely via the BNC-fiche. Then Mr Nijboer asked whether there was sufficient compensation in Limburg. I would like to stress once again that I believe that we are all very aware of the great damage that has been done to everyone in the Chamber but also in the Cabinet. Many of us have been there ourselves. I've been there, too. It's really tearing what you find in some places. My perception is that we have also acted generously on that damage. It is expected that in 2021 100 million will be spent on the so-called WTS scheme. For 2022, another EUR 200 million has been estimated. Then I'll be back with Mr. Stoffer. I didn't realize he'd asked so many questions. He also asked about spending the money in the field of Defense. That's a question I recognize from him, but I have to tell him that the decision whether there's more money for Defense is really up to next cabinet. No one knows when that new cabinet is gonna be there, so I'm gonna have to put in a pass. Mr Stoffer and Mrs Van Dijk asked me to look at the under-exhaustment of HGIS and to use it for humanitarian needs. That is a legitimate question on an extremely relevant subject. It is important to separate the following very well. There is no under-utilisation within the part of HGIS that focuses on development cooperation, so really ODA, which includes emergency aid. And all ODA funds for 2021 have been spent. The under-exhaustment that I suspect the questioners are referring to is the non-ODA budgets. They were used, for example, for the security of the post in Kabul, when it was still in full use, but also for the renovation of the Peace Palace. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that he is going to raise these funds through the year-end margin, in order to have this money available in the coming years. It will only be decided in the spring of 2022, in the spring paper. Mrs Gündoğan then asked about the agreement between trade unions and employers under the zero-hour contract. In any case, it is extremely important for the social partners to agree on such matters; that is a great asset in the Netherlands. It is almost unique in the world how that goes here, where they not only want to sit at the table together but also come to agreements. That is one of the reasons why we have so few strike days in the Netherlands and so much work rest at all. This is very important for employers and employees. I only find it complicated to deal specifically with the various measures contained in the opinion. Mrs Gündoğan also asked about the SER exploration Works without Poverty. That reconnaissance was carried out by the ESC at the request of my colleague from SZW. The report shows that the group of working poor is diverse, but there are also points of departure for new policies. My proposal to Mrs Gündoğan would be to structure the thoughts, sharpen the knives and put the compliments on the new Minister or Secretary of State for SZW. I have no idea who that will be, but I am sure he will be eager to discuss this with her. Then Mrs Gündoğan asked what investments are being made to make our knowledge-based economy future-proof. It is quite right that she should ask for that. It is a subject that has been very close to my heart from the beginning to the end of this cabinet period. We do this through the OCW budget, the EZK budget and, of course, the National Growth Fund. One of the thoughts was that you should systematically increase our exposure to knowledge development, to infrastructure and to innovation and R&D, because if you think about what you're making your living on in the future as the Netherlands, you know one thing for sure: that's going to be different from what it was like in the past. This knowledge-based economy is one of the best things to bet on. So I very much agree with Mrs Gündoğan. Then Mr Stoffer asked to look at the ODE tax. That too is a thought I recognize from him. I just don't see the space for myself, in this absolute state of missionary existence, to organize it with this Navy note. I hope that he will be accommodating. Mr Hammelburg asked for reflection. In fact, I have always been of the opinion that it is up to others, first and foremost to the Chamber, to assess what directors do and do not do well, and not to think too much about it themselves. I'm allergic to too much self-congratulation, if only because that style character is always widespread in politics. But now that Mr Hammelburg is asking for this, I would like to say the following. Let me try to give you an answer that I think of myself: there is still work to be done or you have to be critical about it. Anyone who knows me a little knows that I am generally optimistic in life, but also often critical and always very critical of what else I have to do. I think you can reflect on that without wanting to be complete or without wanting to mark things as the most important points. At least what occurred to me when I thought about this in the break was that a lot went well with the support packages, but that you really would have liked to do things differently. Maybe you should have intervened sooner. I've just mentioned that. I am no less concerned about the certainty and financial breathing space of the middle class than four years ago. So that is an important point. At least that's something I've ever wondered about: have we actually done enough? This is also an important task for another cabinet. I think that we have taken a good step in increasing the cake, innovation, sustainability and R&D, but the Netherlands really has to take a big step in this direction. Perhaps we should have started this earlier. Mr Hammelburg himself was critical of what brought Operation Insight to Quality. I'm happy with that operation, but I still think that if you spend taxpayers' money, you should be sure you're doing sensible things with it. I think we still have a long way to go. We need to be more critical of ourselves. We've done a lot of work on that. We have really achieved some things in this area, but I would have liked to have done more. Then what am I satisfied with? I will mention two things. I am pleased with the way in which we have put companies and people in the country through financial and economic corona, with all the misery which, of course, also plays a role there. A small, concrete thing that has brought me a lot of joy personally is the clean-lead principle for ex-cancer patients. That is much smaller and much more concrete, while finance, as we all know, is often very large and very abstract. But sometimes you do something that also has a direct impact. Mr. Chairman. This reflection brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u92	Thank you very much for that. I'll see if there's any interest and need for a second term. That's the case. I should like to give the floor to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Tony van Dijck, from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u93	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I have three motions. The first two motions are about more purchasing power and the third motion is about the housing market. The first motion concerns pensioners. I told you, the PVV thinks it is quite a scandal to deal with pensioners in this country. They have now had to give up 25% of their purchasing power on their pensions, because they are not indexed, while the pension funds, as we all know, are full of money. It's almost 1,700 billion. Less than ten years ago, that was less than half. So there's plenty of money, but pensioners are being squeezed off in a criminal way. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas pensioners have already surrendered 20% to 25% of their pension purchasing power since 2008;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to fully index pensions by 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Léon de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u94	Mr. Chairman. Then I have another motion. As I said, with high inflation, purchasing power is being eroded tremendously. The purchasing power was 0.8 in September. That was very shabby. That was a very small plus, but that's going to be a big minus; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, due to the extremely high inflation rate of 5.6%, the purchasing power plus promised in September is completely reduced to a minimum;]] [[Whereas it makes it even more difficult or even impossible for millions of Dutch people to make ends meet;]] [[Whereas a recovery of purchasing power is essential;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the increase in VAT on groceries, reduce rents and eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Léon de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u95	Mr. Chairman. Another motion on the housing market. Little has been said about it by this Minister; I do not believe anything at all. It's a very big debacle. There's no decent house left to get. I think you should earn twice as much as you do. ♪ Then you come... ♪ [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the average price of a house of sale increased by almost 20% over the last year to above €400,000;]] [[noting that the NHG limit is at €325,000 and is therefore far too low;]] [[calls on the government to raise the NHG limit to €400,000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u96	The roots of liberalism and socialism are of course both in the French Revolution. In that respect, I understand the confusion. But we've grown apart for centuries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u97	Thank you for getting me out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u98	Yeah, I'm with the SP, just to be clear. I have one motion and one more question. Let me begin with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rents increased by 162% between 1990 and 2020 and that rents increased 1.8 times as fast as inflation;]] [[noting that the rents are linked to inflation and we are now facing record inflation;]] [[Whereas hundreds of thousands of tenants in both the social and the free sector are already financially stuck;]] [[calls on the government to freeze the rents for the upcoming cabinet period in both the social and the free sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u99	In his review of the previous cabinet period, the Minister spoke about the position of the middle class. I'd say that includes low-income people. He's seen before that he found out that many people couldn't even replace a broken refrigerator, that they're in such a bad financial position. Unfortunately, this has only got worse after three Rutte Cabinets, and probably after the fourth Rutte Cabinet. A rent reduction could at least help, but of course much more is needed for that. The question that remains was about the legal means that the cabinet is willing to use against Shell and Exxon in collecting the EUR 1.3 billion they would still have to pay us. If this minister's successor were to confiscate these multinationals, the SP would give its full support, I can promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u100	Thank you. Mr Hammelburg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question open and I have another motion. I'll start with my question. It's about the mouth caps. The letter from VWS indeed came to us on Friday. I thought I'd take another good look at it and see if I'm wrong. But there's no selling price for the mouth caps. Again, the news in the press clearly talks about €5 per box for the purchase and €0.64 for the sale. So that's what we're gonna lose. I'd really like to know exactly what's going on here. Are these Indian stories in the press, or is there something not in the letter that might be in it? My question to the cabinet is then to send a second letter to clarify that. I can imagine that the Minister does not have a direct answer to that either. If he did, that would of course be nice too. Then there is the motion that I have tabled together with my colleague Paulusma. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the WRR and the Study Group on Budget Space recommend that communication on the basic path should better highlight automatically rising healthcare expenditure;]] [[Considering that political decision-making on care will benefit from mapping the impact of both policy adjustments and policy impacts in the baseline path;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with the CPB, to implement as effectively as possible the WRR and SBR opinions on communication on healthcare expenditure;]] [[calls on the Government to develop concrete implementation variants for the WRR and SBR opinions to treat the increase in healthcare expenditure equal to expenditure in other policy areas and to send them to the Chamber for the annual report of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Messrs Hammelburg and Paulusma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u103	Thank you. Then there is Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already said enough about purchasing power in the first period, in particular that I would have liked it to have been different. The PvdA will support the motion of the SP to prevent increases especially for tenants in the coming years, because it threatens to get bar and angry. This also applies to the elderly, when I read the first report, but we are going to talk about it even further. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer, also for the recognition that if you are budgeting yourself, it is the intention that you should devote it to the objectives set, but that this is not possible in a considerable number of areas. I hope this doesn't become a harbinger for years to come. When I see that tens of billions are promised for climate, nitrogen reduction and other fine goals, but they are ultimately not met and they are not spent on them, then nothing really comes of all these beautiful plans. We will continue to pay close attention to this in the years to come. Finally, I would like to get an answer to my question about Groningen. I understand that the Minister does not make these estimates himself, but I do ask him about the estimates in the spring note. If it says "we don't take into account new earthquakes," then I wonder what it's like. So in addition to the issue of the guarantee that the NAM will continue to pay, I ask the Minister to go into that point as well. Finally... yes, Mr. President, you would like to go home early and I do, but I still have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u105	Yes, but you keep saying, my last point, one more thing. So I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u106	I can see you sighing, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u107	No, I'm happy to listen to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u108	Finally. This is, I think, the last debate we have as a chamber with this finance minister. We've crossed the swords quite firmly over the past few years. We also disagreed quite often and I think we should; a sharp opposition also sharpens a coalition. I would like to thank the Minister for the debates that have taken place in recent years. And I may find him in a different capacity over the next few years or perhaps even in the same capacity as I can believe the newspapers, but the Minister knows more about that than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u109	Very good. Then Mrs. Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three little dots. Thank you for the commitment regarding the answer on the municipalities and the corona fees. I'd like to look forward to that answer. Mr Nijboer rightly asked about the water damage in Limburg. I want to complement that with Brabant and parts of Gelderland. Unfortunately, the problem is bigger than Limburg alone. So that's what I'd like to appoint. Then I have another motion and it has to do with insight into the assets. The Minister did make a commitment, but I did not think it was strong enough. Hence the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, under the current reporting rules, ministries do not have to include a large proportion of their assets in their annual report;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the Court has no insight into those assets of the Empire, while these are public-funded social provisions, collective service resources, IT systems and state real estate, which must be valued and managed and maintained;]] [[Whereas this lack of understanding does not make it possible to assess whether policies are feasible and whether sufficient funds are allocated in the budget for management and maintenance, and that this may have major social consequences;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors can be followed in the report on State Property in respect of existing and new assets of the Empire and the associated management and maintenance expenses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u112	Thank you. Then Mrs Gündoğan of the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas poverty is one of the most persistent social problems, which also has a major impact on other policy areas such as care and education, as well as on major transition issues relating to climate, energy and digitalisation;]] [[Whereas the fight against poverty calls for an integrated, cross-domain approach;]] [[noting that according to the SER, the Netherlands has a large group of around 200,000 working poor;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a multi-annual comprehensive action plan to reduce long-term poverty among workers and groups which repeatedly fall back into poverty;]] [[calls on the Government to coordinate this action plan at a national level, with concrete objectives linked to it, and to monitor and evaluate progress in an interim manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u114	Then the other one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the ESC shows that there are 200,000 working poor in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that (single) women, in addition to self-employed persons, people with a non-Western migration background and flex workers, are a substantial part of this;]] [[Whereas increasing female employment rates can make a substantial contribution to removing working women from poverty, as well as making a substantial contribution to the economy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how sponsors and employers can facilitate hours increase among working women and contribute to the substantial and structural increase in the employment rate of women,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35975-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u115	In the last twenty seconds, let me briefly say the following. We often talk about budgets and so on, but we should be able to look forward more comprehensively and in the longer term. In the care the costs are going to rise out of the pan. How are we gonna fight that? The WRR has decided to focus on prevention. It's in the poverty corner. So I wanted to use these last seconds for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u116	Here's to it. I'm gonna suspend for six minutes, and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u117	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I left a few things behind. Mr Alkaya reminded me that there was another question about what legal means the cabinet is considering with regard to claims against Shell and Exxon and how to collect that money. The NAM recently announced that they would like to go into arbitration about the invoices for the damage and reinforcement operation. The cabinet believes that these costs have really been passed on to the NAM and that clear agreements have been made on this matter. That is why we look forward to arbitration with confidence. We have agreed in the Cabinet that the Ministers for the Interior and Economic Affairs will inform the Chamber about follow-up steps. I'm gonna have to do it that way for as long as that arbitration process goes. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Nijboer asked for a similar question: how does the cabinet guarantee that the NAM will continue to fulfil its obligations in Groningen. As far as the cabinet is concerned, NAM bears a risk liability in respect of damage caused by the extraction from the Groningenveld. The NAM has also built up financial reserves for this purpose. In addition, the shareholders of NAM, namely Shell and Exxon, issued guarantees in case the NAM could no longer fulfil its obligations. That's theoretical, but it's important to mention it anyway. Those guarantees shall apply until the end of the extraction from the Groningen field. I think I have answered Mr Nijboer's question. One last thing about the estimates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u119	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u120	That is the problem, because in the long run, the mining in Groningen will stop even more, this year or next year, but the earthquakes will continue for another ten or twenty years. That's the problem with what the Empire agreed with Shell and Exxon, because who's gonna pay for it? That's quite a question ahead of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u121	As I understand it, Shell and Exxon have committed themselves in the so-called agreement on broad lines. In my opinion, Mr Nijboer has also had a debate on this with the Minister for Economic Affairs, and I say it euphemistically. It agreed that, prior to the expiry of the guarantees, alternative appropriate collateral would be provided for the subsequent period. That's what I can say about it now. I think that is close, but Mr Nijboer looks as if he is inspired to perhaps retake the debate at another time, which I cannot deny, of course. Mr. Chairman. I have checked one more thing, because Mr Nijboer also asked about future earthquakes. This has to do with uncertainty about how many of them there will be and what their impact will be. The effects cannot be predicted exactly. Therefore, the intention to update the estimate annually remains. We'll do it as best we can. In the spring of 2022 the next update will be very soon. I still owe Mr Stoffer a specification on his motion. Mr Stoffer has left the building, I see, but he will be pleased that this is already taking place in the first quarter of 2022. I have one more question, namely Mrs Gündoğan's question. That question is similar to the motion that she has retabled. The complexity of this, with all due respect for the problems that it raises, is: if I could ever reasonably insist that the days of this cabinet are numbered, that is today, given what is on the agenda tomorrow, as I read in the newspaper. I think Mrs Gündoğan will have to hold the motion if she wishes to continue with it. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I'll be right there, but I'm afraid it's no different now, with all due respect for the precision on this big and important subject. Mr. Chairman. There is one amendment. I believe that that belongs to Mrs Wuite of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u123	Mr Slob will respond in writing. I understand that I have not checked, but I understand that the Chamber has united with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u124	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u125	Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. The first motion, in part No. 2, by Mr Van Dijck, I must advise against, although of course it has been submitted together with Léon de Jong. The motion in part No. I should also advise against this, because this is also about large sums, and that is not the issue in the Navy's note. For the third motion, in part No. 4. Mr Van Dijck has got Mr Kops so crazy to sign with, but I also have to advise against this motion, because we have agreed on how to deal with this system. There's no reason for an adjustment right now. The Alkaya motion in part No. 5 I must advise against, because that is really up to the next cabinet. The motion in part No. 6 I can give Judgment Chamber, without explanation. The same applies to the motion in part No. 7: Judgment of the Chamber, without explanation. Then there is the motion on part No. 8 by Mrs Gündoğan, to which I have just referred. I'd like to suggest to her that we hold that motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 9. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a few final words, apart from what the future brings and apart from what is the best way to engage in dialogue. Let me be honest: I have often enjoyed the debates very much. I often found them very enjoyable in terms of content. I thought we did it all the time. I have sometimes wondered whether this always had the maximum added value for democracy that we all serve. Having said that, I would like to say to the spokesmen in particular that I found it an exceptional honour to discuss and exchange views with them here. Sometimes we agreed, sometimes we agreed and sometimes we totally disagreed, but that is part of the debate. I would therefore like to thank all of them very much for the exchange of views. I wish them all the best. Whether I run into them and, if so, in what capacity, is decided in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u126	Thank you. I am sure I will speak on behalf of the whole Chamber when I say that we have all experienced contact with you as very pleasant. We wish you all the best for the future, of course. Mr. Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u127	I had one more question open about the masks and the sales price by the Ministry. I had already indicated that I understand if the Minister does not yet have an answer to this, but I would like a supplementary letter from the Minister of the United States of America in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u128	I am not going to ruin the romantic exorcism I did at the end of the debate with a bad answer about the mouth caps. Someone in the cabinet, I don't know who, is going to provide this with a gold-plated answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u129	You can see it: we stay sharp until the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-tweedekamer-26.u130	On Thursday we shall vote on the motions and on the amendment. Thank you very much to the Minister for his presence. I shall close the sitting on 14 December.
