ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the final part of the committee debate, which has just been completed on the additional Rule 100 Resolve Support Mission Afghanistan. We are conducting this debate in a single period as usual. That means you have to file your motions in one term. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Defence, the MPs and the viewers at home. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Declare victory and leave: that seems to be the motto of the United States and NATO as they leave Afghanistan. Without major targets being achieved, terrorism has increased, the Taliban are becoming more powerful every year, and the insecurity in the country is enormous, the victory is pronounced. It's an insane spectacle. Quite frankly, we are talking today about 80 additional soldiers sending the Netherlands to Afghanistan, while they are already on their way. That is unacceptable and must not happen again. Mr. Chairman. Lessons have to be learned from twenty years of military involvement in Afghanistan, which can only be called a failure. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the coming months all NATO forces will be withdrawn from Afghanistan;]] [[Considers that a fundamental discussion is needed over two decades of western participation in the war in Afghanistan;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a comprehensive and independent investigation into the involvement of NATO countries and specifically the Netherlands in the war in Afghanistan, in particular into the objectives set and why they have not been achieved in certain cases, as well as into other relevant results, including those for the civilian population of the country, and the cost of all efforts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-772]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have another motion, because there is still such an infinite war that needs to be put an end to. I mean the war in Iraq. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the coming months all NATO forces from Afghanistan will be withdrawn;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for the withdrawal of the Dutch troops from Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-773]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u4	Finally, Mr President. From day one, the SP has been against the military involvement of the Netherlands in the hopeless war in Afghanistan. This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, my party wants the Dutch military to return home soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u5	Merci. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u6	President. The government sent 80 soldiers to Afghanistan yesterday to secure the Dutch departure. It is not excluded that the Taliban will take action after 1 May, while packing. JA21 supports the cabinet's request for reinforcement. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is rightly withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan;]] [[Whereas this should be done in the most secure way;]] [[Whereas the transmission of the approximately 80 military to strengthen the security capacity in Train Advise Assist Command - North in Afghanistan is necessary to ensure this safe return;]] [[assuming that the House of Representatives is 100% behind our troops;]] [[calls on the Government to take all necessary steps to increase the security of our troops to a maximum possible level in order to promote a return,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-774]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very recently, on 13 April, the Americans decided to withdraw all their troops from Afghanistan without conditions. In doing so, they have created a fact which, for NATO too, means that all troops will leave that country before 11 September. We are deeply concerned about the consequences that this is going to have for Afghanistan, especially for women and girls. Thanks to many sacrifices in twenty years time, their position in important parts of Afghanistan has improved, but that is once again at stake. At the same time, we think it is very important that our Dutch troops are safe and can also experience a safe retreat. That means that my group will agree to the additional broadcast that has already taken place. I have to say that I understand that the surprise was great, but the whole procedure around Article 100 is not as it should be, from the provision of information I have said all the necessary about it up to and including the somewhat premature departure of our soldiers. At the same time, I welcome the fact that we have received a commitment on the monthly update for the Chamber, so that we can follow very closely what is happening there in the coming months, up to and including withdrawal. However, I am talking about the commitment that a proposal will be presented before the summer, which will explain in detail what the post-intervention strategy will look like after the withdrawal. After all, we must remain involved in Afghanistan. Mr Sjoerdsma put it nicely: it is a form of recognition for all the sacrifices they have made that we will continue this commitment after September. Finally, the importance of a proper evaluation of these 20 years has been mentioned. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the US and NATO have decided to withdraw all troops present from Afghanistan by 11 September 2021;]] [[Whereas this will put an end to a very long-term involvement in military interventions in Afghanistan supported by the Netherlands or in which the Netherlands actively participated;]] [[Considers that there are still important lessons to be learned from this and that there are also overarching lessons to be learned for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with the design of an independent overarching investigation over this entire period in a timely manner, so that this investigation can also be launched in the short term after the end of Resolute Support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-775]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wish all Dutch troops good luck and a safe and healthy return to the Netherlands. I hope that, through diplomatic means, with financial support and in good cooperation with other countries, we can do the best we can, even after the intervention, to ensure a better future for Afghanistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. Now that the Americans have pulled the plug, it is important to bring our soldiers back safely. This morning, I spoke about the great contribution made by the Netherlands since 2001 to the development and reconstruction of Afghanistan. It is therefore a moment to reflect on the 25 soldiers who died and give thanks to all the Dutch soldiers who served there. However, my group is surprised at the procedure followed, with a lack of Article 100 letter to the Chamber and by launching the mission before the debate at all. The Ministers expressed their regret at this. It is precisely in order to ensure future care that I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court attaches great importance to careful decision-making on the broadcasting of Dutch military personnel in order to maintain or promote the international legal order;]] [[Whereas this decision-making (Article 100) is based on Article 100 of the Constitution and on closely defined agreements between the Government and the Chamber;]] [[Considering that before the debate on the deployment of additional military forces to Afghanistan began, the government has already allowed the military to leave;]] [[expresses her sadness at the government's behaviour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-776]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. There weren't just soldiers in Afghanistan. Diplomacy and development cooperation have always been the focus of attention. I therefore welcome the commitment of Minister Blok to come forward with a letter before the summer on what this commitment will look like in the coming years. All efforts will now have to be made to ensure that 1. our soldiers return home safely and 2. to continue to support the Afghan people wherever possible in the future. My group will therefore support the extra military effort. I wish all women and men who go to Afghanistan strength and a safe return. That is what we wish for, of course, those who remain at home, who have to miss their loved ones for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With President Biden's announcement that the American troops will leave Afghanistan, our Dutch troops will also leave. The Netherlands has been able to contribute with the coalition for years; men and women of Defense who have worked for years to promote the local but also the international legal order. They were also willing to give their lives for this. Some of them have given their lives there, too. They deserve our great respect, and also their home front. There is an important decision before us. We have asked critical questions over the last few days and also today, and we have given ministers the opportunity to clarify the commitment, the threat picture, but also to inform them of the fact that additional soldiers have already been sent. We have had answers and come to the majority of the conclusion that the decisions taken and the decisions before us are proportionate and justified, in particular in view of the threat picture after 1 May 2021. However, we are concerned about the aftermath and, in particular, the efforts made in recent years. Can't these be destroyed? We are concerned about the Afghan people, about development cooperation, but also about vulnerable girls. We hope that our commitment to this will remain unabated to support those who need our help. If we consider everything, we support the proposal for military deployment. We wish our troops but also the home front strength and express our appreciation. We also wish the troops who have left recently a safe return and God's blessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr President, thank you. For my group too, sending troops from the Netherlands is one of the most intense things we can do from our Parliament. That's what we're doing now. We do that because with this broadcast we want to bring people back safely. These are people who do work in a very difficult environment, where we have been together for almost twenty years. Then it is good to see how you can sustainably continue all the good that you have achieved with each other there. We don't do that anymore on a military mission. We would like to hear how we are going to proceed before the summer of the cabinet, because we attach great importance to the fact that girls and women can retain the position they have been given over the last 20 years. An example of this came from a former military man who said to me: in the first few years that we were there, only little boys were brought. There are always medical concerns to forgive. Then, of course, they come to such a camp. She indicated that many years later, girls were also brought. Then you can see that there is gradually a difference in such a country. I find it very tangible to hear it back that way. I have great respect for anyone who is working there under those difficult circumstances. That is why my group supports this mission. We wish the military to be able to do their work in a very blessed way with support from our Chamber. It would have been nicer if we had done it in a different way. Our group has a problem with that. I would also like to say this here, but we trust that the interests of our military will be handled in a careful, good way and that there will be broad support, including, where necessary, air force support, so that they can do their job safely. We hope they all return in a good way. That's what I'm saying coming from garrison town Assen. We stand before our army. We're proud of that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For many Dutch people, especially for my generation and for me personally, September 11th has not only been a moving but also a shaping event. I was 15 years old at the time. It has finally changed my image of the world, of our security and of our vulnerability. That was only reinforced when I later lived in the United States and met several people who experienced 9/11 up close. Nothing like this can ever happen again. I therefore believe that we must have a great deal of respect for all those Dutch soldiers who have taken care that the terrorist threat from Afghanistan has been removed here in the Netherlands and in the West. I would like to express the same awe to all our soldiers who have made such an important contribution to security, stability and development in Afghanistan. Our thoughts are with our 25 compatriots who have made the highest sacrifice for this. When sending Dutch soldiers, whether it is a new mission or an existing mission, the security of our people is the most important thing for the VVD. We need to be certain of that. We need to be prepared for the worst scenario, including in this final phase of the mission in Afghanistan. Now that the threat picture has changed, it is up to us to anticipate it. The answers given today by the Foreign and Defence Ministers give me the confidence that we will do enough in this mission. The question before us now is whether we are prepared to strengthen our commitment with 80 additional soldiers who are going to contribute to the necessary security of our military presence in northern Afghanistan. This can count on the support of the VVD. We continue to do what is necessary for the safety of our military, who do such important work. We continue to do what is necessary to contribute to the security of our NATO allies with whom we work intensively in Afghanistan. I hope that the broadcast will be over soon and wish the military who are going to Afghanistan, but also the home front, which remains in the Netherlands, much strength. I'm hoping for a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u18	The VVD says we have to decide today on the stakes of 80 men, but those 80 men are already gone. We discussed this in detail this morning. Now I want to know whether or not the VVD disapproves of this method, which is the way in which the cabinet operates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u19	I said this morning that it is, of course, extremely uncomfortable. We have, of course, also questioned the Minister critically. She has outlined in detail what has happened in the execution, which led her to face the dilemma of choosing the safety of our soldiers who are present and to send the soldiers with the available flight that was present. We understand that the Minister had to take that responsibility, but we regret that it has happened. That is why I have asked that, in the evaluation of this mission, we take a critical look at the final stage of such a broadcast, in which there are all kinds of dependencies, for example, an available flight permit, so that we will not be in the same position again in the future. Because it is precisely in an Article 100 procedure that you do not want it to happen in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Van Dijk, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u21	I know the arguments. I was there this morning. I'm asking whether the VVD disapproves of the way in which the cabinet operates or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u22	We do not support the motion of censure, but we do regret how it went. That is what we indicated this morning. That's why we have critically asked whether this is being taught within Defense...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u24	We do not support the motion of censure or mourning, but of course we do not agree with the fact that it has happened in this way. That is why we have also put critical questions to the Minister. We are pleased that she will take a critical look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr Brekelmans just said that he regretted the way in which he acted. There will soon be a motion that deplores the way in which the cabinet operates. So you're in favour of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you. I do not think we should repeat the debate, but perhaps Mr Kuzu has another question. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u27	No, we're not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Brekelmans say that he regrets the way things are going, but that aside. This morning, during the critical questioning, we also understood that at least one of the MPs was called by the minister's assistant about a letter being sent. I was wondering if the VVD spokesperson was also informed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u28	The Minister stated in the reply that a number of MPs were called by the political assistant to indicate that there was a letter coming because it was late at that time. I say openly that I have been informed that that letter was coming, but I have, of course, seen the contents of that letter at the same time as all the other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u29	Then, of course, the question is: do you also regret or reject the way in which a number of Members of Parliament are informed beforehand and some Members of Parliament are not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u30	You can catch me on that one word now. That's a nice trick. I did not mean to say that just now, and I immediately corrected that in my reply to Mr Van Dijk's question. We also said this morning in the debate that when Members of Parliament are informed that there is a letter coming, which should apply to everyone. Then all Members of Parliament must be informed of this in the same way. The Minister has made that commitment, and I think it is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kuzu for his contribution. Would you like to wait one second? Thank you. I call Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. Twenty years of war in Afghanistan. A quarter of a million people have died. Almost 5 million people have fled. 42% of people live in severe poverty. 16% of children suffer from acute malnutrition. 400,000 children are directly victims of war violence. Then we can't claim that we did well. Unfortunately, we have failed as an international community. The primary goal was to defeat Al-Qaeda and the Taliban, and to protect the population: women, men, boys and girls. We just didn't make it, and that has to be admitted. The Taliban still hold 40% of the country. There are still attacks on journalists and human rights activists. There are still attacks on the Afghan authorities. These are the same authorities that we should have trained, but they are still unable to take adequate action against extremist groups. The general threat picture has deteriorated, as the Minister also admitted, and that is worrying. This proves once again that fighting violence does not solve anything. This proves once again that for 20 years we have been investing in the detriment of a country and not in the construction of a country. This also proves that the Netherlands loses more than wins, when we act as the lapdog of the United States. And most importantly, our presence has made the outdated ideas of extremist groups a plausible response and world view for far too many Afghans. Mr. Chairman. We have also just talked about the way in which the information was provided. A number of MPs have been called and a number of MPs have not. When there is an article 100 letter, we normally have a proper debate about this with each other before military personnel are deployed. I have a motion of censure on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government sent 80 military forces to strengthen the security capacity in Train Advise Assist Command - North to Afghanistan before the discussion on the article 100 letter took place in the Lower House;]] [[Whereas it is very unusual for military personnel to be sent to conflict areas without the parliamentary debate taking place;]] [[Whereas a number of Members of Parliament were informed in advance by telephone that the military would be broadcast earlier than planned before the letter of the Chamber was sent to the full Chamber with this information;]] [[rejects this practice of the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-777]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr President, concluding. We know that by now there is also a majority in favour of sending our boys and girls to Afghanistan. They're already there by now. Although we in the DENK Group do not agree with sending soldiers to Afghanistan, we wish our boys and girls a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government violated Article 100 of the Constitution by sending 80 soldiers to Afghanistan before the Chamber could rule on it. That has happened is a situation in which the government has maneuvered itself. We cannot say that it is force majeure or that it was pure necessity. No, they have maneuvered themselves into that situation, because they knew long before that 1 May would be a breakpoint and that there was therefore a risk of more aggression by the Taliban against the coalition forces. None of them anticipated that, at least not in time. The best they could have done, of course, was to ensure that all our troops were back before 1 May. None of that happened. Mr. Chairman. Following the expulsion of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban from power in Afghanistan, the military goal of Operation Resolute Support was achieved. The PVV has been saying for more than ten years: stop this Dutch military contribution, because the military goal has been achieved. Now the government wants to be the best boy in the class again in that military action by increasing our military presence at the moment, that is to say by 50%. I would say: let the other countries do so if they so wish. The PVV believes that we should not be in Afghanistan at all, with the 160 men who were already there, and therefore certainly not with 80 men, so a total of 240 men. This means that we do not support this broadcast, which is now on the agenda. But I do have a motion, Mr President, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted the termination of the NATO Resolute Support mission in Afghanistan;]] [[calls on the government to remove all Dutch military personnel from Afghanistan by means of an in-depth investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-778]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u36	There can, of course, be different views on the usefulness and necessity of successive NATO missions in Afghanistan. That is what Mr Van Roon and I have been arguing about for years. However, I am very surprised that he is opposed to this mission, because it is not an extension to do more in Afghanistan, which Mr De Roon warns, but to bring our soldiers back safely to the Netherlands. So I ask Mr De Roon here why he is against these measures and why he is in this way against the measures to guarantee the security of our troops abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u37	I do not support this course of action, because I think we should not have been there by now. If we had just done what the PVV said was necessary, namely to make sure that before 1 May all the Dutch had already been gone, we wouldn't be in this mess now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Sjoerdsma, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u39	No, Mr. De Roon, we don't live in the hypothetical PVV country. We live in a world in which this broadcast is a fact, in which 160 Dutch people are currently in Northern Afghanistan, in which a decision has been made to withdraw and return to the Netherlands, as your group wants. This cabinet says this is necessary for a safe retreat. And your group says: I do not support that. I'd think very carefully. I would ask you to reflect on what your group is doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you. Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u41	It's very simple. If we believe that we should not have been there with 160 people, I cannot possibly say: well, I support the fact that 80 more people are going there. They must all come back as soon as possible, and that is precisely the thrust of the motion I have just tabled. They all have to go back!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u42	I do feel a bit about this with Mr Sjoerdsma, because I am surprised at the PVV, which normally has a very warm heart for our soldiers. Of course, they're leaving them in the cold. You're gonna get people back, but apparently you can't do that in a safe way, as far as the PVV is concerned. I don't get it. Maybe Mr. De Roon can explain it one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u43	Perhaps Mrs Mulder does not understand that there are 240 Dutch soldiers already in Afghanistan who we do not think should be there at all. So I'm not gonna say it's nice to have them there. So I'm not going to support this broadcast either. I'm just saying they have to go back as soon as possible, by means of a circular, as my motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mrs. Mulder, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u45	Yes, but if the conclusion is... We will not be gone by 1 May, as Mr De Roon would have liked. I understand. We talked about that this morning. We have also asked questions about this. But the people are there now and you want to get them back safely. Secure recovery can be done by sending additional people there. They're helping to get back faster. Why does Mr De Roon not want to support that? Why won't he give that security to our people there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm not gonna let you put all this into the PVV's hands. Because the fact that we are in this situation is precisely because of parties like yours, who have simply speculated that we would stay in Afghanistan a little longer after 1 May, whereas it was quite clear that 1 May is a break date for the Taliban and that the dangers are increasing. So you have to make sure you're gone before 1 May and you don't let it come to that, so you suddenly get into all kinds of trouble shortly before 1 May, as has happened to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u47	Rounding up. It is completely incomprehensible from the PVV that you expose people to these additional dangers and that you do not support this mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u48	There is absolutely no question of exposure to danger, because there are over 1,000 men in that camp for the time being. There are security forces and those 80 Dutch who have now gone there, against our wishes, are also security forces. So exposure to danger is not at all at issue right now. But they must return as soon as possible, that is the thrust of my motion. Finally, Mr President. I understand that there is a majority in this Chamber that supports all of this. I would be surprised if there is also a majority in favour of the proposal to bring them all back by round, as proposed by my motion. This means, of course, that I hope that the situation of all our soldiers will remain safe there and that they can safely return to the Netherlands as soon as possible. I wish them all a safe return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The broadcasting of military personnel is the toughest decision a cabinet can take and it is also the toughest decision that can be made in a Chamber. This morning, the committee gave a very broad indication of the importance it attaches to a careful procedure. A procedure enshrined in the Constitution which has been repeatedly reconfirmed in agreements between the Government and the Chamber. The failure to follow this procedure in full is a blow to the face of that procedure and we should not talk about it. I fully understand the arguments about safety, as all the groups in this Chamber do, I suspect. Our military must be safe. I also understand that mistakes can be made. Making mistakes is human. But I cannot escape the impression, even after the cabinet's explanation this morning, that the cabinet has given itself, and thus our Chamber, too little time to complete this procedure carefully and that this problem has arisen. That is why my group has also tabled the motion of the PvdA and GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. That being said, D66 supports this broadcast. These 80 soldiers are intended for the safety of our military in order to be able to withdraw safely, in order to cover the risks arising after May 1st, we all know the intentions of the Taliban troops as well as possible, in order to ensure that we complete the mission as best we can. That is why my group has asked in detail about the risks, the way in which these additional military personnel cover those risks and the medical chain. The cabinet also replied in detail. A second important point from my group is to ensure the results we have achieved in Afghanistan over the last 20 years. And there are indeed, I say to those who are very sceptical. Whether it is the generation of children who have received education or the average income that has gone up, access to water or increased safety: it is results that have been achieved, but of course they are fragile. I think it is up to all of us to keep these results as well as possible, even if it is only in memory of all those who have sacrificed in Afghanistan, with their lives, with injuries or with their time. Finally, Mr President. Of course, my group wishes all the soldiers to be sent very much success and a preserved homecoming, and their families and loved ones strength in their absence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. Some people, including this Chamber, say that Afghanistan was a tragic failure. But I don't believe them. Others say things have improved, but if we leave now, everything will be lost. I also see that differently, although the concerns surrounding timing are understandable. Everything that has been done in the past twenty years in the name of what is right and right, for peace and security, and for those who are poor and vulnerable, has full meaning. Sometimes you have to see the value of the little one. And sometimes the little one is the big one. Both ministers called for attention to be paid to this. Also retired general Van Uhm recently rightly emphasized the question: what are you standing for? What are your principles and what are your values? If the Allies had wondered at the beginning of World War II how many sacrifices they had to make in order to give the West Europeans their freedom again, they would not have started, Van Uhm rightly noted. That reminded me of the four freedoms, four freedoms, in the famous speech of American President Roosevelt in 1941. In it he argued to fight for freedom of speech, can and may say what you think and find, the freedom to confess and experience your faith, be free from shortage and poverty, and also freedom of fear, because it unleashes the worst in people. The SGP Group calls on the government to continue to ensure that these freedoms, together with the fight against Islamic terrorism, continue to keep the strong attention of the Netherlands and the international community after 11 September this year, that we continue to support the Afghan army, the ANDSF, also towards Iran, and that we also continue to make sufficient non-military resources available. Mr. Chairman. I wish the approximately 80 Dutch soldiers, their home front and also the colleagues who already are God's blessing and good luck in contributing to a safe and orderly withdrawal, and above all a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you. Then we have one last speaker. That's Mrs. Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to all my colleagues. I would like to say briefly that the mission in Afghanistan is yet another example of an imperialist war under the false flag of freedom and democracy. For 20 years we have created refugees and caused misery, without results. But let's pretend it's a victory and condone the permanent war policy of the West and, above all, go to sleep peacefully tonight. I will therefore support Mr Van Dijk's motions and I strongly endorse every word he has just said. As a result, I would like to say that it is absurd that people have been sent out of the country without first consulting the Chamber. It is insufferable, but unfortunately also something that I am beginning to get used to after a few weeks in this Chamber. That is why I can support Mr Kuzu's motion with the same passion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you. The directors have indicated that they can immediately give their appreciation of the motions submitted. First of all, I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All spokesmen rightly indicated that the decision-making process on the sending of troops, the Article 100 decision-making process, is one of the most important decisions of individual Members of Parliament and political groups. The same applies to the cabinet. This mission is a mission in which 25 deadly Dutch victims are to be regretted as well as many wounded. Our respect for them and their families fits, but this also illustrates very vividly that the decision we are making today, in which the vast majority of those who do not support the mission, fortunately expressed the wish that everyone will come back preserved, can literally be a decision about life and death. Everyone realizes that. Against this background, I indicated this morning and I repeat that I also recognise the very great inconvenience that the entire Chamber actually expressed about the fact that College Bijleveld and I had to inform you last night about the departure that had taken place. We have added a limitation on employability, but I agree with everyone that an Article 100 procedure requires the utmost care because of the gravity of the decision. At the same time, last night, at 8.30 p.m., I finally signed the letter with Mr Bijleveld because I thought every alternative was worse. But once again, it is something we avoid to the utmost. Against this background, I shall deal with the comments and motions that have been made. Mr Van Dijk did not support the mission, but indeed expressed his sincere wishes to the people who were being broadcast. He asks for a broad and independent investigation, as in the motion in part No. 772. I leave it to the Court to decide, because I think that is a very legitimate wish. His second motion concerns the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. I indicated this in the debate this morning that we are there at the government's request to enable a people who are very difficult to build a life, which is also a clear Dutch interest, that we are doing so together with other countries, and that this military commitment is embedded in a broader commitment on the rule of law and development cooperation. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u57	The motion in part No. 772 gets judgment Chamber and the motion in part No. 773 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u58	That's right. Then there is Mr Eppink, whom I thank for his strong support for the mission and, by the way, for his broader words of appreciation for the deployment of our armed forces. Mr Bijleveld will deal with Mr Eppink's motion. To Mr Van der Lee, I say once again that before the summer we will come up with a comprehensive proposal for the commitment to preserve the achievements in Afghanistan, which are indeed there. I thank him for his strong support. He too is asking us for an investigation, and I would also like to leave that motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u59	The motion in part No. 775 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mrs Piri also stressed the importance of preserving the achievements. I would also like to say to her that we are going to go into this in great detail. It has tabled a motion of mourning, in part No. 776, and although I can have an opinion on that, I am not going to discuss it because it asks for a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u61	Correct. And that also applies to the motion in part No. 777.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u62	I wasn't there yet, but that's where I'd say. Mr Ceder expressed his concern about maintaining the progress made. It shares the cabinet, hence our basic attitude to maintain the progress achieved together with allies, and the commitment to inform you of that commitment before the summer. I would also like to thank Mr Ceder for his support. The same goes for Mrs Mulder. It also expressed its strong desire to maintain progress. Mr Brekelmans also addressed history, with the terrible attacks of 9/11, the appeal that allies have made to us and the sacrifices that have been made. That also led to his support, for which I thank him. Mr Kuzu reiterated that, in his view, poverty, refugees, deaths and malnutrition are due to Western commitment. I also indicated in this morning's debate that there is really considerable, measurable progress on these issues. That is widely recognised. I also said that I do not deny that we are still far from the ideal situation and certainly not that there are many deaths to regret, but that we also know what the situation was like under the Taliban. The motion of censure, in part No. 777, is addressed to the Chamber. Then Mr. De Roon. I sincerely do not believe that Article 100 has been violated. I have indicated to you how difficult it was for me and Mr Bijleveld to confront you at such a late time with the need to leave the people, but that is not a violation of Rule 100. Mr Bijleveld will deal with the motion you have tabled. I very much appreciate Mr Stoffer's participation in the final vote. I am one of those with you who see progress, without saying that we are where we would have liked to be. That is also why I indicated in the debate that we are committed to further progress. I have also set out a number of conditions concerning the safety and quality of local government, because it must be justified to continue to contribute. But the basic commitment is to keep doing that. I also very much appreciate the fact that Mrs Simons has now taken part in the debate. I do not share her view that the 20 years have been unsuccessful. I have already indicated that there is really measurable progress on health, on life expectancy and on the participation of women and girls in school, and that I think it is also a challenge to maintain it. Mr President, I hope I have answered the motions and questions that I have been asked. The rest is up to Mrs. Bijleveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you. If she has one moment, we'll clean the speaker chair. And the motion in part No. 778 is not recommended. I call the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to endorse what Mr Blok has said. We are talking here today about a supplementary Article 100 letter. Men and women go to Afghanistan to be there for the safety of our people. Minister Blok and I both have great understanding of the fact that these are difficult considerations; so are we. It is always a heavy responsibility to send men and women out at the risk of their own lives for the safety of others and for building values that we consider important. I admire the people who do that work with passion and with danger for their own lives, and there is always a home front behind it. I also agree with the qualification that Mr Blok has just given. We discussed this in detail this morning. The Article 100 procedure has simply been followed, but we had no choice but to let the men go now, otherwise they would not be ready in time for the safety of our people. And that is why, also on the basis of the opinion of the Commander of the Armed Forces, and Mr Blok, I have had to decide to do so. We have discussed this extensively, but I would like to point that out once again. I would also like to endorse what has been said about what has been achieved by all those people who have been there in those 20 years, whether they were military or citizens who have worked there. Mr Blok has mentioned a number of things that have been achieved, but I would like to add to this the setting up of the security sector. This sector must now be able to continue working on the future of Afghanistan itself. That's what we've been talking about all these hours. A number of examples have been cited, but I always keep in mind the three Afghan women soldiers I have spoken to there. They had chosen to serve in the Afghan army. They said to me: we do, because otherwise our children will have no future. It is important to have said that here too. I share what Mr Stoffer has put forward in this regard. Finally, we are talking about the four values, the four freedoms, and a number of things that we have added to them and that we have stood for in recent years with each other. For us now, the safety of men and women is paramount. That's what the Article 100 letter says. To me the assessment of two motions. The motion in part No. Mr Eppink. Mr Eppink. Mr Eppink. Mr Eppink; Mr Eppink; Mr Eppink; Mr Eppink; Mr Eppink; Mr Eppink; Mr Mr Blok has already said how he looked at Mr Eppink's contribution. Security is of the utmost importance to us. That is also stated in this text. I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The De Roon motion in part No. 778 must be discouraged. It is a careful and safe withdrawal of our people. I also indicated in the debate that we cannot all be the first to leave Afghanistan, because then we will do something contrary to what the Members of your Chamber have just brought in. They want to perpetuate a number of things. One of the essential things that Dutch men and women care for is the medical capacity in the role 2-hospital. It's gonna have to stay there until the last minute. This means that we have made every effort to secure air support in the broadest sense to the last man in the coalition forces of the Americans. They did. That's incredibly important for everyone there. The motion in part No. 778 I must therefore advise against. In this place, I want all the people who are indeed on the road, but also the home front of all these people for the home front, the uncertainty is often greater than for those who are working in a complicated country themselves, wishing very much strength and strength. I agree with the wishes expressed by Mr Stoffer. With that, I can end my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Kuzu. The motion in part No. 774 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 778 is not recommended. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u66	Well, Mr President, it's not an interruption, it's a point of order. I would suggest that we vote first on the motions for resolutions on items Nos. 777 and 776 and then on the other motions, because these two motions deal with the conduct of the government and the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u67	Fine. We'll take that into account. We have come to the end of this debate. I agree with the words of the rulers. On behalf of all the other MPs, too, I wish our soldiers, women and men, who are being sent out, a safe mission and a safe homecoming. I wish them and, of course, their families and friends much strength. I thank the rulers. I thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-8.u68	I shall suspend the sitting until approximately 3.45 p.m. so that we can also vote on these motions immediately afterwards.
