ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the general affairs budget and the King's budget. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to meet with Members: four questions and/or comments to each other and four questions and/or comments to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Bosma has signed out. That's why we start with Mr. Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr President. If Mr Bosma is ill, I wish him well from this place. Mr. Chairman. I used to go to Prince Willem Alexander's School in Alkmaar. I grew up with the established fact that Beatrix was our queen and Willem-Alexander was the heir to the throne. At school, we learned more than average how the royal house works and how it works. Still, I didn't see the value added of the royal family to our society until I started working after college. Of course, I had long seen the impact of our royal house's attention on sports and athletes, for example, when they achieve great results at important moments, such as the Olympics and World Championships. But especially the period I lived in Australia, I noticed how there was looked up from that country against our royal house. The royal family has an important role not only nationally as a connecting factor in our society, but also internationally, to open doors. This brings added value for our business and therefore for jobs and incomes. In Australia, we were not only jealous of our monarchy, but also of the popularity of our monarchy and the prestige it has internationally. With that important position of the King and our royal family, I understand that the royal family costs money. The awareness that this is a matter of public resources is also evident with our Crown Princess, who renounces compensation because she does not yet make the expenses at this stage of life. I think that's a very good decision from our Crown Princess. As far as I am concerned, this could also be a good start to a tradition. One of my predecessors, Bas van 't Wout, filed a motion four years ago to make 5 May an official holiday. That motion was adopted unanimously at that time. If I understand correctly, the conversation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Labour Foundation is still ongoing. Look, I like a little meeting, too, but I think this is taking a little too long. Can the Prime Minister indicate exactly what is going on, why this is not being concluded and why the wishes of the Chamber have not yet been met? As a member of this Chamber, I have seen over the past eight years that, in the run-up to the King's budget, one specific subject has often been made news. Whether it was holiday homes or the maintenance of a boat, every year something played. This year, this kind of news doesn't seem to be around. Most attention has been paid to the fact that the heir may marry a partner of the same sex, without having to give up the throne. This is in response to questions raised by my party and the Labour Party. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the positive and more appropriate response he has given at this time. The fact that this is even international news shows that we as a country are rightly at the forefront of this and that we have a history as a trendsetter when it comes to this kind of equivalence. The VVD sees no other crazy things in this budget. Next year, by offsetting the funds repaid by the Crown Princess, this budget will shrink in favour of the general budget. We are very much in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	Don't worry about it. There are some interruptions. Firstly, Mr Sneller of D66 and then Mrs Leijten of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Welcome to this committee, Mr. Lordema. I thought a new spokesperson, new round, new opportunities. I would like to ask Mr Heerema how he looks at the tax exemption for the King when it comes to income. Mr Heerema already noted that the return was a good precedent. Does he also see reason to address this tax exemption through the discussion, but also because of the actual level of the remuneration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	I see no reason at the moment to intervene in the system we have. For example, I have followed the discussion on the B component with great interest. I understand, as the Prime Minister states in his letter, that the edges of Articles 10 and 41 of the Constitution will be reached if we take further action. So I understand we're not going to intervene any further. I also understand that the situation as it is today is workable. I am in favour of that, too. As far as I am concerned, therefore, tax exemption and so on is not at issue either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	Unfortunately, no moving insight at the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	It's about General Affairs, isn't it, the most important ministry in our country? We have quite a lot of discussion here about something called "a new governance culture." In the meantime, it's a bit of a flattering term. Everyone means something else by it. I would like to ask Mr Heerema of the VVD: what does the VVD mean by a good, healthy new governance culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	Oh, Mr. Chairman. It has indeed become a container concept, like "sustainability" or something like that. In my opinion, a new administrative culture means looking at how we can deal with each other as well and as openly as possible, as a Chamber and a cabinet among ourselves and between the different layers in it. That will be a search, because things are going well and things are going less well. I don't think it's on an A4 or in a note to summarize exactly what you need to provide as a framework for that governance culture, but I think we need to find out with each other how we can best shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	I will put some questions and make a proposal in a moment. I would like to ask the VVD: would good governance have to do with transparency and integrity, but also with morality? You also mentioned the moral step of Princess Amalia. In the eyes of the SP, she is a 17-year-old wiser than our prime minister. Could the VVD continue with the three concepts of integrity, morality and transparency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	I do not think you can oppose this and it is always about the three aspects that Mrs Leijten refers to. In my view, we need to explore how we can best shape this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	We live in a cool country, this Prime Minister says a lot. Of course, that's true all the time. Only last night, at the screening of Only against the State, we were able to see and hear that it is very often not. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he's seen the movie alone against the state. Then what is the most profound thing for him in that? Mr. Chairman. Before the summer, I had a debate with the Prime Minister, which was also about the interrogation committee, which became an argument. He accused me of being in a propagandistic SP tunnel because I said, "How did we get to the supplemental scandal? My analysis is that we have an administrative elite that looks a little down on ordinary people in a rental house who need surcharges because they don't make enough money." At that time, the Prime Minister was particularly critical of the word "watching down." I get that. It's not a personal accusation. I think it's a systematic analysis of our country. I would like today to try to get a step further than, well, the personal allegations. What analysis does the Prime Minister make of how this was possible? Does he see as the SP that this is something systematic and that it is not an incident? I would like to do so, because we believe that we can therefore move forward in the analysis of how we can prevent this in the future. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about integrity, morality and transparency. One of the things that is very good to realize is that in a country there are networks that are everywhere but that can also become unhealthy in some way. That's what makes it neat. This creates a blind spot for seeing certain groups of people, certain interests, in society. This may also lead to network corruption. That doesn't mean that everyone in that network is corrupt, but by that you mean that there are friends services that you can turn in later. Look at Limburg, where Remkes is doing a good job and where Roemer can get started as a new governor. Good luck from this place. There was an overall system in which granting each other things had become quite common, and there was looked away. An instrument has been developed by the University of Saxion, along with Home Affairs, called the resistance scan. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to apply the resistance scan to the ministries as well. Who are you talking to? Who's giving you advice? Isn't that a network where you created a blind spot? Is the Prime Minister prepared to give that insight? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to integrity...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	I'm going to use the word "network corruption." That's a very big word, a very heavy word. I would like to have some explanation from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	I understand that. I advise everyone to follow whoever introduced this. She's a professor of public administration integrity at the Saxion University of Applied Sciences. She's from Transparency International. She has investigated a lot of corruption in other countries, but has also looked at what is happening in the Netherlands. We're seeing nepotism. We see favor or look away from things that we think: that is not really integrity anymore. But we also see in our analysis that certain groups of society are not at all covered or are always at the end of policy. She says that's a form of network corruption. It's about seeing. It does not mean that everyone in a network is corrupt, that there is conflict of interest or that pockets of money are being given. It's about not seeing that as a system you no longer have integrity, no longer open to new people in your network or criticism in your network. "That's how we do it with each other." The resistance scan she has made is already used in municipalities, not on the person of an alderman or a mayor, but on: what is it, who are we talking to, by whom do we advise, do we not miss things or have things not become unhealthy at some point? That's what I'm talking about. But since that's what she calls it in her thesis, I thought it'd be nice to use that term here too. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to move on to integrity. We saw two directors leave this summer, on which we also asked questions of Parliament, namely Van Veldhoven and Van Nieuwenhuizen. I wonder how the Prime Minister looks at these two issues and whether they are integrity issues. We see Van Veldhoven going to the World Resources Institute as director of Europe. With this, she is responsible for another organisation that deals with circular economy, reuse of all kinds of things. This year she has given a grant of nearly a tonne for organising a conference. Actually, I think that's pretty vulnerable. I also find it very vulnerable what happened to Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen. The Prime Minister knew it for a long time and did not think it was an integrity issue that she was on the Council of Ministers as an upcoming lobbyist. I was wondering if this was discussed in the Council of Ministers. Was there someone at the time who said, "Hey, wait a minute, this is vulnerable?" The Prime Minister's political insight is about three days before the General Assembly of the Energy Sector, where she became a lobbyist, where she would be appointed. He got a new political insight and thought she couldn't stay on as a minister. But did that have anything to do with the election at the members' meeting? Did that have to do with a political advice he received from someone who said: "Hey, there's something happening here that isn't integrity or what questions can come about?" Would the Prime Minister give us some more information on that? Was it about the image that could possibly be detrimental or was it really about content: so should we not do so as public administration? I'd like to know. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the new administrative culture, which is already a flat topic, I think it is about transparency, integrity and morality. That's what I just said to Mr. Heerema of the VVD. Transparency. I ask the Prime Minister what is against simply placing the agendas of the directors online. That's not about when you have to go to the tennis club or what subscription you have there, but about who you're calling professionally and at which conferences you speak professionally, so we can see that and we can also say, "Oh, could you call someone other than Unilever?" Would it be a good idea to make the stock interests that people have and have had transparent? I agree with Members of Parliament. If it's all right, Mr. Chairman, you'll come back to that proposal. That's what we talked about at the Estimation. The Minister of Finance said here: I would be happy if we did not mist over what was going on and what you rejected and that it would be better for another cabinet. Then morality. Just because you like something doesn't mean you have to do something all the time. You're running a construction of an investment across the Virgin Islands? I'm just calling it a discussion. A 17-year-old princess can have a million dollars, because that's what we all decided here. The SP feels differently: it can be less and they can pay taxes on it. But she doesn't want to. That is a moral choice which makes me think that it is wiser than many members of the cabinet and also rather than the Prime Minister. She says: I do not like it; I do not like it morally if I get it while I do not yet play a role in the royal house. I think that's very brave of her. I think that's hopeful, too. How does the Prime Minister see that? Did he see that as a bit of a tap on his fingers? After all, we have often talked about the question: should we want her to have it on the 18th birthday? The Prime Minister has always defended this by saying that it is the system and it must be. Finally, I would like to say something about the implementation of the motion of the Labour Party and D66, which was adopted last year. It says that we want to have more insight into the costs incurred for the performance of the kingship. We are setting that amount, but we do not really know what it is being spent on. I don't think it's sporting to get the motion a week in advance, without decision, decisions and advice, a letter saying: I won't do it anyway. I ask the Prime Minister to take it up again and to carry it out again, because I think that discussion about where that money is going ultimately harms the Royal House and the King, and we know that they cannot defend themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today D66 exists 55 years. Around this time I always have to think about the way Hans Gruijters left the VVD in 1966 and became one of the founders of D66. Together with the rest of the Amsterdam city council, he was invited to receive the princely couple. Gruijters was absent. He let me know, I've got something better to do. The day-to-day administration of the VVD did not take that and gave him a slap on the wrist with a public statement: "Results in public law bodies should follow invitations from the royal house, except in the event of absolute obstruction." I think that has remained a cultural difference between our parties since then. Mr. Chairman. All the more unexpected was the Prime Minister's final agreement at the General Reviews, as he agreed with Benjamin Franklin's fine answer to the question of what form of state the Constitutional Assembly had chosen: "A republic, if you can keep it." But the Prime Minister, of course, gave it his own spider with the words: The Netherlands is now also a republic, in which one family happens to always deliver the president. The founding fathers would beg to differ. Anyway, the Prime Minister meant it as an incentive to maintain our state establishment. Well, I guess I'd better take it that way. So on the matter: the King's budget. For the first time, his annual salary goes through the EUR 1 million tax-free limit. This border is reached after an eventful time, in which many Dutch people had a hard time, the king showed himself with a number of corona incidents not infallible and also some choices of the government were inimitable to me. For example, the cabinet made a statement because of corona by not going to Formula One, but the king went. That is why I am asking the following question in order to be sure. In 2022 the Olympic Games in China and the World Cup are football in Qatar. Can the Prime Minister confirm that there will be no delegation from the cabinet, but also from the government? The king himself said earlier this year, in conversation with the press, that as far as he is concerned the motto is: equal monks, equal cuts. That statement was about the exemption for Kroondomain Het Loo, I say to Mr Wassenberg. As of next year, compliance with that motto will also be enforced after long press by the Chamber. But this year it is still being chosen to make use of this exception. Equal monks, equal hoods; a beautiful motto. As you know, as far as I am concerned, this should also apply to the King's tax exemptions. But I assume that the Prime Minister's position on that point, as with the VVD, is unchanged compared to last year. This brings me to the additional expenses of more than EUR 5 million which the King receives for human and material expenses. So the benefit he gets in addition to his salary, in addition to all functional expenses, in addition to the congested expenses and in addition to expenditure on other budgets in relation to the kingship, is the so-called B component. How different is the Prime Minister's attitude on this matter this year than last year? Let me put it bluntly: I appreciate the way in which the Prime Minister has handled the implementation of this motion. That is because of three things: one the process, two the responsibility for it and three the substantive conclusion. First, that process. May last year, the Court of Auditors recommended that I, as spokesman for state expenditure, be involved in the audit of the annual reports to check whether the B component is still appropriate every five years. The Prime Minister did not want to do so and a motion by Mr Kuik and myself was adopted in September in order to implement this. In October, the Prime Minister was in Vak-K, at the other location. Despite his previous resistance, he enthusiastically said: I'm going to perform him athleticly, we just need to find a good form before the end of the year. But despite repeated reappearances, it took until last week before we finally got an answer: the motion is still not being carried out. Based on what? An information from the 2016 Council of State, one that was well known when the Prime Minister made us his promise. Therefore, my questions: why did it take a year for the Chamber to be informed? Can the Prime Minister call me one thing he says: I didn't know that at the time, but I do know that now? Then there's the question of accountability. Following the childcare allowance affair, it was agreed, after extensive debate, that ministers would inform the Chamber more generously. This includes the active provision of decision notes, as well as the elements that make up such a decision note. But you can already feel it coming, Mrs Leijten had already given it away: no decision paper. So we asked him out. No inter-departmental coordination, no consultation the Prime Minister can report on, no document the Prime Minister wants to provide. A cynic would now say: typical Rutte. But you know me, Mr. Chairman, I'm an optimist. However, the Prime Minister even has some doubts about his role as an example. That is why my question is this: has the Prime Minister really not sought any external advice on this motion? Didn't any of the state's lawyers give or write an opinion? Because of that procedural swamp and the lack of accountability, you would almost forget what it is about, namely the substantive reasoning. He doesn't convince me at all. I am not the only one, because I have not seen or spoken to a single state lawyer in the last week who does support the Prime Minister's reasoning. I'd like to hear if he's seen it. They all say that Article 10 of the Constitution, the protection of privacy, an article that we all have high standing here, is being disproportionately stretched here. Moreover, in the reasoning, the defence relies strongly on anything that opposes full disclosure. But what exactly opposes, for example, a construction in which a committee of wise men would check the height of the B component for appropriateness and share that opinion with the Chamber? According to these state lawyers, the same objection applies to Article 41 of the Constitution, which is the room for the King to establish his own House. This is used as a shield on which all attempts at control or review would ricochet. While we know it's not true. Because it is internally the Audit Service of the Empire that tests and it is externally the Court of Auditors that tests for legality. So what is, I ask the Prime Minister, the difference of principle between the state and the test of appropriateness? Or is the Prime Minister's statement that the Court of Auditors has actually made an impossible state recommendation here? The Prime Minister writes to us that he lacks the opportunity to give an opinion on whether the B component is still appropriate to the level of human and material expenditure. In fact, he says: it can never be evaluated. I believe that this is both unworkable and untenable, and I say again as a spokesperson for national expenditure. But fortunately I said that I am optimistic. I also know the Prime Minister as a creative politician, so I ask him one more time: what possibilities does he still see to meet this wish of the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The general affairs budget is also on the agenda. From this responsibility, too, I believe that we are still able to achieve greater transparency. Take public access to the agendas of directors. The agreements that exist on this subject, following the initiative of the PvdA in the past, do not prove to be a guarantee of success. For example, the Open State Foundation estimated that the Minister of Agriculture had only made ten agreements public in four years. Other countries do this a lot better than we do. The European Commission is also involved in this. Last year, finance ministers and IenW played something about an airline. They had an appointment with Commissioner Vestager and he was neatly on the latter's agenda. But nothing was found in the public agendas of the two Dutch directors. I really think that the Netherlands should take steps in this regard. It needs to be more complete, more up-to-date, clearer and more insightful. In short, it needs to be more transparent. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take this seriously? Mr. Chairman. My final point is also about a more open government. GRECO, the organisation against government corruption, which is mentioned here more often, has often hit the Netherlands on account of our integrity barriers. Or rather, the lack of it. One of their recommendations to us is that directors should publish their financial and business interests. The Chamber and society must have a better understanding of the private interests of the executive's highest officials. The appearance of conflict of interest must be avoided. Moreover, this could also help to make directors less vulnerable to incidents and suspicions, but the current regime simply fails to do so. Directors can put their interests at a distance, but that does not mean that they no longer have those interests. After a number of previous attempts to do this, which unfortunately fell on a majority in the Chamber, I hope that we can take this step now. Mr President, I will conclude. I started with Benjamin Franklin's words. We know how it turned out. The Netherlands proved unable to maintain its republic. Parliamentary democracy also applies: maintenance is maintenance. That means modernising and constantly bringing our rules into line and the way in which we deal with them. So I say to the Prime Minister: we have a lot of overdue maintenance to work out. To end in his favourite language: all this will not be finished in the first one hundred days, but let us begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Baarle van DENK and then by Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	I would like to thank Mr Sneller for raising the GRECO report. It is quite right that he should draw attention to the recommendations contained therein. He also points to the integrity rules. One of the recommendations that GRECO makes is the following. Certain rules we have aligned for the cabinet are not enforceable. In the last debate I had with the Prime Minister, that touched me very much. Those rules are just a recommendation. I fully share what Mr Sneller says, but could Mr Sneller also support the following plea? The cabinet is now working on a code of conduct. Does he also think that this code of conduct should in some way be enforceable and perhaps sanctioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	Part of the Code of Conduct Integrity Empire does. But the thrust of the Prime Minister's response on a late Wednesday evening about the blue book was that it was actually more suggestions. As far as I'm concerned, that was inadequate. I think the Prime Minister was actually right about that, but it has to be stricter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	How does the D66 Group feel about integrity and new leadership than about the former Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, no, Waterstaat, IenW?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	The W of Environment. Partly I can follow what Mrs Leijten and her colleague, I believe Mrs Marijnissen, have asked in the written questions. The rules say you have to report it to the Prime Minister if you're going to apply. I also think it's sloppy that that didn't happen. I didn't talk to her about it, but I should have. The other side is, where can you go? I think that we should also clarify this as a Chamber towards future and current directors. I also think that such a code, as Mr Van Baarle calls it, can give more clarity about that. In this case, it was a long-term long-term subsidy relationship, which she had indeed decided on. But I would like to look with Mrs Leijten at how we can provide more clarity that is also enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	Integrity can create or break trust in the government. At the moment, confidence in the current rulers is deteriorating. The most worrying trend is still the growth of the group of Dutch people who no longer trust the government. "What's the big deal?" I get that question seriously at parties: what's the big deal? For example, large groups of Italians have been getting their noses up for politics and government for decades, because they simply no longer have any expectations. What's bad about this is exactly what I really care about.It's what this does with the confidence in all those officials and cops who work their asses off every day in our cities and villages to make the difference for all Dutch people. Because their work can make or break people's lives. And their work begins here, in this room. And if Dutch people no longer have confidence in the people at our offices or in district janitors or, for example, in the police, then a lot of people in our country are alone, powerless alone. That, of course, leads to anger. So you would expect that in view of the waters in which we are sitting, with very bad reports for this missionary cabinet, that report from the European anti-corruption watchdog GRECO last summer came the analyses, but in 2019 the report was already there with recommendations to improve the integrity of directors, would be adopted with both hands. But nothing is less true, because last summer it turned out that none of the 16 recommendations have yet been fully implemented. And no, not all the recommendations are in the area of our Prime Minister, so of General Affairs that we are discussing today. But I don't want to add myself to the army of pessimists and indifferent. I, like Mr Sneller, am an optimistic man. So I still have expectations, big expectations. I always say it's not my cabinet, it may not be my choice and my color, but it is my prime minister. In any case, I have the expectation that the troops will be steered in such a way that any official or policeman with his head held high can do his job, and at least not with the feeling of insecurity. At the moment, it's not. That is why the Labour Party is ready with the answers in the line of "the Cabinet is working on them" when it comes to those recommendations of GRECO. That is why I have the following question. When can we expect the recommendations to be implemented? And another thing, including GRECO, and to be specific about the cessation of directors and new jobs, which Mrs Leijten has just spoken about. I understand that directors in a new job come into contact with information they have heard before in the Council of Ministers. At the same time, I am concerned about the integrity of the government. In recent months, we have seen the coming and going of rulers that it can become very furious if there are no hard rules. On 6 July, in a letter on the GRECO recommendations, the cabinet indicated that there would be no hard rules for new jobs after the ministerial. The reformer explains the directive to candidate directors and then the ruler has to see what he or she does with it. In doing so, I should like to quote from the Cabinet's opinion: "a person in office who takes up a post after the end of his term of office does not appear to have acted impurely during his term of office and has mishandled the knowledge he has acquired during his term of office." But, three months ago, when we were confronted with rulers who quit their jobs to go lobbying, the Prime Minister felt that the absence of commitment was rather modest. "His political weighting had changed," he said. I wonder whether the Prime Minister still assesses the non-binding nature of the rules as "sufficient" or whether his political balance here is different. If the balance is different, I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister is prepared to come up with other rules for ministers and directors who resign. If so, what rules are these? My next question is on the subject of our king's expenses. Mr Sneller has just referred to this. We have tabled a motion together with D66, actually a very normal, not so demanding motion, I thought. The motion is about better understanding and more transparency in the spending of our taxpayers' money, money from all of us. I also thought that is why the Prime Minister promised quickly to implement the motion at sporting level. It's just about getting more insight into that expenditure in the so-called B component. It's not about getting all the receipts for every roll of licorice the king buys. It is about greater transparency and more understanding of its distribution, so that we can also consider whether the money is sufficient or insufficient. Lawyers have now cut off from failing to implement the motion for the reason that this would be contrary to the Constitution. So my final question is: when is the Prime Minister so sporty to carry out the motion? If not, then what are the reasons to interfere with the statements of this battery to lawyers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you, Mrs Kathmann. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many people are fans of a football club and sit on the couch on the weekends with scarf and cap. One is for PSV and the other for Feyenoord. If your club wins, it's a party. But the beauty of King's Day is that it will be a celebration for everyone. That so precious connection with each other is often far-fetched in our polarizing society. As CDA, we cherish that connection that the king makes for our society. That is where the royal house plays a very important role for us, but of course we are not deaf to the discussion about the royal house and we share the responsibility to keep our royal house up to date. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the king had a meeting with the victims of the supplemental affair. "Olders who have been duped into the Surgery affair told me this afternoon their story, straight from the heart and straight from the point of view. Their perseverance is admirable," said the king. The King's role is limited in our state system. In the cabinet formation he can only be updated. The King keeps his political views to himself. In his role is not the King's opinion important, but the King's attention, the listening ear. The victims of the surcharge affair announced in the media that the king had seen the documentary only against the State twice and also asked through. They said we talked about everything. They also found it very good to see that the king not only asked through a lot, but also wrote things down. The King's job is sometimes spotted: "it's just cutting ribbons." Whoever says that underestimates, as far as we are concerned, the binding force and attention of the King.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	Maybe it's because of the circles I'm in, but I get some reactions about King's Day that are a little less binding than Mrs Van den Berg. This is a very nice plea from Mrs Van den Berg for a ceremonial kingship. Is she also a stated supporter of such a ceremonial kingship, without any political role?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	I think we have already had the discussion about the role in formation. The King used to have a clear role in this and the CDA was not in favour of abolishing it at the time. We therefore see no reason at this time to change the position of the King further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	But did I get the CDA right now? All the positive things are actually the ceremonial functions. They can be very important, including for national unity and so on. The CDA also said that all the political roles are actually gone. Then let's make sure they're really gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	The fact that the political roles are now gone was not due to the CDA's support at the time, as I indicated earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	The resistance at the CDA is still alive in my mind, but the King is still the head of the government. He's still President of the Council of State. He still has to sign every law. Surely these are political roles that we could arrange differently? I therefore welcome the support of the CDA for a different way of dealing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr. Sneller is really jumping to the wrong conclusion. I have just indicated that we see no reason to further adjust the King's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	This will be Mrs Leijten's last interruption of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	Again, it is remarkable that nothing is said about integrity, general matters and the state of confidence in politics. The parents especially liked that the king called them Dutch, because they are very often not seen like this and are not interpreted like this. That was very valuable, I'm sure. When it comes to the value of such a binding institution, doesn't the CDA think that you should just be transparent and that the motion on the B-component should be implemented better, for example, because doubts and discussions about it ultimately affect that institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	The CDA didn't support that motion last year. That is the first point I should like to make. The Prime Minister stated in the letter that it was contrary to the Constitution. The Council of State has spoken a little bit about that. This family is already living in a glass stump anyway. We would have real problems with it if the King had any more... All legality is subject to internal control by financial control. This family already lives in a glass stump, so we wouldn't want it and we would just feel bad if we had to have an opinion about every spending of the king now, like: couldn't he have spent it better on that or on that? Can I also say something here about the positive PR value of the King? We didn't discuss it at all. That doesn't only apply to the victims of the surcharge affair. During a work visit, everyone likes the King's presence. Every city loves it when King's Day is celebrated there. All these positive returns from the Royal House are not being paid attention here today, and I find that extremely regrettable. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr President, first of all, a sip of water, because I feel a tickle in my throat. Mr. Chairman. In the limited speaking time I have, I ask a number of questions about the administrative culture. I'll start with the Open Government Act. It arrived last week by the Upper House. I defended that law with Mr Sneller. I'm very happy about that. We talk a lot about political governance, but this is really a very concrete step to improve it. I wonder what the Prime Minister's reaction to the CDA doctrine is, apparently, to argue for more openness, but to vote against this law in the First Chamber. I was a little surprised. Anyway, I don't suppose the Prime Minister's gonna answer that. I've got my mind on it. The specific question about this law is whether it is being ratified as a matter of urgency. Under this law I am really waiting for a quick signature from the King, so that this law can also enter into force on 1 May 2022. I'd like a commitment from the Prime Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. A second point is the transparency of the agendas of the directors. Mrs Leijten has already mentioned this, including Mr Sneller and others. That is a debate we have been holding for a long time. The study by the Open State Foundation shows that it is really lacking: differences between departments, but certainly also lag behind other countries and the Commissioners, while Brussels is not known as the most transparent governance we know. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister what his own role might actually be to ensure that those agendas of directors become more transparent. The third point, and much has been said about it, is the B component of the King's payment. And then I'm gonna say something about those decision notes. In my view, it was the Prime Minister's own idea to make those documents public and send them to the Chamber as a result of the surcharge scandal. And on a number of dossiers, I can see the usefulness of this, for example in the Tax Plan: a whole series of decision notes, which contain a lot of information, where there are considerations, choices are made; and there are sometimes some more sensitive things being said, for example about positions of political parties. I think all this is very useful, and good for the debate, and good for understanding the considerations that the cabinet should make. And then a decision note of one rule is also very thin. And I know my good friend Joost Sneller very well; he doesn't get angry easily. But I feel like he's angry right now. So if I were Prime Minister, I would do my utmost to meet him with the implementation of this motion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about these surcharges. That surcharge scandal actually hangs like a veil over that whole discussion about the governance culture, and there are a lot of aspects to that, and we will talk about that a lot. One of its aspects is the legal protection of citizens. We have already discussed this on a number of occasions; this is about the general principles of good governance, which must be enshrined in the General Law on Administrative Law. The Cabinet is working on a law. The Prime Minister has previously promised me that the Chamber will first receive a note in advance in order to be able to talk about it itself and to give it direction. I can't wait to see what's going on with that. Time is running out, and I think that we should be able to deal with this amendment soon, and that discussion in Parliament should also be able to take place quickly. Can the Prime Minister give me anything? Because I understand that this is still legally quite complex, but can he indicate anything about where the complexities are and why it will take some time for the Chamber to get back to progress in the process? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. In this debate on the King's budget, I would like to begin with a quote from the King. When it was about the exceptional position of Kroondomain Het Loo vis-à-vis other large natural areas, he said: "Equal monks, equal hoods." As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, this means: to cut the crown domain equally with the closure of the crown domain during the hunt. That is also what the Chamber wants; I refer to an adopted motion from 2018. According to the Minister of LNV, this is not necessary because "the temporary closure of the area as of 15 September 2021 does not conflict with the currently applicable grant conditions'. But what if that subsidy was granted in violation of the law? What if the subsidy does not comply with the rules that apply to all other Dutch people? What if an illegal subsidy condition harms the Dutch citizen, who in the autumn is not allowed to walk in the crown domain, and those hundreds of deer and wild boars that can be shot without any social control, without witnesses? Around the Crown Domain hangs a very dense mist, the mist of Rutte. Thus we read in the revealed documents that the Crown Domain is closed because of the royal hunting, but somewhere else it was suddenly privacy; that was what the Minister of Agriculture wrote last year. But where does the law state that the hunting or privacy of the King justifies a closure of more than fourteen weeks? That is not a rhetorical question, but I ask the Prime Minister. How and why was that exception created for the King? For it is not apparent from the revealed documents at all. An application was missing. I would ask the Prime Minister to continue to share that request with the Chamber, including a justification of the legal basis justifying the closure of the area, which is contrary to the normal conditions of grant. Maybe the Prime Minister can write along, and President-in-Office is done under number 8147325. (NL) Mr President, then the opening-up itself. In March 2018, the Chamber adopted a motion stating that the Crown Domain should be open all year round. In October 208 the King said: that discussion belongs in the Chamber. We're having that discussion today. The alleged usufruct which would have been granted to the crown bearer in 1959 cannot exist without a notarial act which is open to all interested parties. That's what Professor Notarial Law Van Mourik says. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to share with the Chamber that instrument of usufruct and all the underlying documents that accompany the donation of the Crown Domain to the Dutch people. Finally, Mr. Chairman. The King's salary is for the first time rising above 1 million duty-free this year, as Mr Sneller said. I would like to know from the Prime Minister why, in the country of wage moderation and zero-lines, in the country of the Law norming top incomes, the King's salary grows uncontrolled. Uncontrolled, because the Prime Minister doesn't think a discussion on the King's salary is necessary. The Court of Auditors calls for a five-yearly evaluation and the Chamber asked for it in an adopted motion, but the Prime Minister does not consider it necessary. But the discussions in this house are not determined by the Prime Minister and not by the King, but here, by the House of Representatives itself. When does the Prime Minister carry out the motion? Other spokesmen have already asked for this, and I agree with that. I would also ask for full disclosure of the government's considerations regarding the proposed budgetary increases for the royal family. We want to know why. And I want the Prime Minister's guarantee that the Kroondomain grant will not be hidden in another way, for example, without a formal grant scheme, in the B component; who knows what can be provided to the King. I really want a guarantee from the Prime Minister on this too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. The House of Cats has been the official residence of the Prime Minister since 1963. A beautiful house, which since this summer also has to share its protected estate with the twenty meter high office building right next to the Catshuis, in the garden. I saw it through the gate, because that way I could do field research; of course I didn't get beyond the gate. A model from Madurodam, a toy house, called SOS The Hague. My question is brief and clear: how does the Prime Minister intend to receive guests at the Catshuis when such a runaway office building is right next door? The Prime Minister once visited the French President Macron in the Tower, the Tower of Thorbecke. That Macron just looked around alienated and wondered: is this all? Of course, the tower stands off starkly at the Élysée. Question: Does the Prime Minister have a representative reception location in mind to receive international guests at level? Speaking of houses, I am a great supporter of the Dutch royal family. There is a connection, a thread, through history that connects the Netherlands with the House of Orange. To this day, the King, as a non-political actor with authority, has a stabilising role in the Netherlands. The King is not a missionary. Prime ministers may not come and go to this Prime Minister, because his term of office will be royal traits, but the monarch will remain. Looking at the financial picture, there are costs, but the benefits are much higher. They're not always visible. The King opens doors that remain closed to presidents. A king is of value to the Dutch business community for trade missions. He's coming in. The publicity he gets and if bought, would cost millions in the United States. As a earning model, the royal family pays back in multiples. My conclusion is that what the King does is done. We support the Prime Minister in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is tired of Mark Rutte. The Netherlands is sick of this Prime Minister. The Netherlands wants to get rid of this man. A recent poll showed that 61% of Dutch people are no longer interested in Mark Rutte as Prime Minister. Of course, that's not weird. Rutte lied and cheated in his prime ministership. From the €1,000 for all Dutch people to no active reminder of the dividend tax memos to the tough lie about Pieter Ommzigt "function elsewhere." We are dealing here with a Pinocchio Prime Minister, a Pinocchio Prime Minister, who is also responsible for the extravagant crime, a Pinocchio Prime Minister who was present when MPs wanted to muzzle MPs, a Pinocchio Prime Minister who promises to improve over and over again but then lies to the Chamber again with his government. Of all the promises made after the premium crime about this new governance culture, so incredibly little is going to end up. I ask this Prime Minister: why? Mr. Chairman. DENK was already done with this Prime Minister. Because he swindled Dutch people with a migration background and Dutch Muslims with statements like "fuck off," "Mo, you fight in" and "the Islamic prayer call is terrible jinxing." But now almost the whole of the Netherlands is finished with Rutte. So my first question to this Prime Minister is: isn't it time to quit? Almost the whole of the Netherlands is done with you, time to pack. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of General Affairs. According to parliamentary historian Anne Bos, the Ministry of General Affairs is the place where all the wires of the spider web come together. But according to a former Secretary-General, the Prime Minister's advisors operate in this ministry as some sort of discreet eavesdropping finches. It's not my words. The aim of the Ministry of General Affairs is the unity of government policy and its communication. I sincerely wonder: what is the power of the Ministry of General Affairs? Does it mean, in practice, that other ministries should act in AZ's straitjacket? Why has this ministry been pushed out all the time? What does that look like in practice: to promote the unity of government policy? And what does this do with the Prime Minister's responsibility? Where does it start? Where does it stop? The Constitution only mentions the Prime Minister as President of the Council of Ministers, but in Corona, for example, we see this Prime Minister as a kind of head of the country covering all policy areas. When is something to promote the unity of cabinet policy and chefsache, and when not? Can the Prime Minister answer that? Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of General Affairs is also responsible for the integrity of the government, laid down in the so-called blue book, which contains the integrity rules for directors. I have been shocked in recent times how integrity and Mark Rutte seem to be two mutually exclusive concepts. That two of his directors applied for a job while they were still in the cabinet, he was fine with it. When it appeared that the cabinet's own integrity rules had been violated, because these directors were applying without his permission, he showed no moral leadership. He said that this is up to the rulers themselves, and I cannot do anything about it as Prime Minister; I cannot enforce those rules. The control freak Rutte, who recently fired a secretary of state, suddenly couldn't do anything. I find that unbelievable. For weeks, the former Secretary of State and former Minister concerned spoke in secret with a lobby company in their own policy areas, and they should have asked the Prime Minister for permission to do so. Surely it is not possible for directors to decide on millions of euros while at the same time having interviews with companies where these millions of euros go? A member of the board simply made interviews with a company that is subsidised by its own ministry. That stinks, doesn't it? Another ruler made very nice decisions about mobility, but at the same time conducted interviews with a company that lobbies for energy companies in the area of sustainable mobility. That reeks of conflict of interest, doesn't it? Why doesn't this Prime Minister maintain his own integrity rules? Why does he not condemn it when a minister decides on a budget, on laws, on rules, while this minister slyly applies for a job at a company that can potentially benefit from these decisions? Why didn't he condemn the fact that these regiments were hunting for a job for weeks without his permission when they were still speaking on the Council of Ministers? Why didn't he take these people off their wallets? Mr. Chairman. As far as DENK is concerned, there is a need for binding integrity rules for directors, with enforceable rules on applications, interests, lobby contacts and more. If we leave integrity with this prime minister alone, it's obviously a dead letter. My final question to the Prime Minister is therefore: when is the code of conduct for directors going to be introduced? And will that code of conduct also be binding and enforceable? At this point, DENK has a motion ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	I suggest we suspend until 2:00 p.m., including a lunch break.
