ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35145, Proposal for a law of members Bishop and Kwint amending the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Centres of Expertise, the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Education and Vocational Education in connection with the abolition of the Teacher Register and the Registry Portal. I welcome the Lower House members Bisschop and Kwint, who are defending the bill on behalf of the Lower House. I had already welcomed the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. On Valentine's Day 2017 I remember the debate in this Chamber about the introduction of a teacher register. Speaking of abolition today, I thought it would be nice to apply some self-plagiarism, albeit with this source of reference. I said at that time, among other things, "Whoever takes up the pieces about the teacher register is almost moved by all good intentions. The aim is to better recognise the professional space of the teacher and to strengthen the quality of the teacher's profession by developing professional standards and a teacher's register, in which teachers themselves have an important voice in determining the frameworks and criteria. So you would expect," I said, "that the government's proposal has managed to obtain a lot of support in the field, but instead teachers say: we are not necessarily opposed to this but do not want it to be imposed when there is no support. We do not want this to restrict our freedom of choice in professionalisation, and above all we do not want it to replace all the other things needed to improve education, such as smaller classes, fewer hours of teaching and more qualified teachers." After that, I also asked how the Secretary of State, who dealt with this issue during that period, managed to derail a plan, which in theory everyone is in favour of and where the voluntary variant of the teacher register seemed to be fairly broad, in such a way that today it seems as if there is massive resistance to the whole proposal. At the end of that debate, I said: 'We would like to inform the Secretary of State that we will not only follow the outcome with argus eyes, but also that the success of this whole route is or falls with the extent to which he or his successor succeeds in getting the profession involved. In this respect, it will depend on the government's commitment and helmsmanship to ensure that it actually works." End of quote, and that's good, otherwise we're gonna get bored, because you might have read all of this back, just like me. In the end, my group agreed to the proposal in 2017. Four and a half years later, the House of Representatives took the initiative to remove the never actually established register from the law. Reading back in those debates, I note that the reasons for deleting it now have already been discussed at that time, that the intentions of the teacher register were widely shared, but that even then the question of whether the conditions for implementation could be met was already very wide. Would it be possible to make it a register of and for teachers? Would it be possible to increase acceptance in such a way that it would be self-evident to the professional pride of teachers? Would it be possible to solve the then threatening and increasingly real shortage of teachers and the corresponding workload, so that the continuing training obligation was also realistic? In 2021, we have to note that the profession did not see the register as something of their own, that it was considered too much toy of bureaucrats and technocrats, that the shortage of teachers only increased, and that the system creaks into its joints, which sometimes makes it insufficient for parents, children and teachers to meet their needs. Mr. Chairman. In the consideration of these intentions and hesitations some voted in favour and others voted against, but I think there was a great deal of agreement in the analyses. I thought it would be a good idea to get this straight at the beginning of this debate, because the fundamental question for us is twofold. That question is, I am sorry, gentlemen, not a question to the initiators. I would like to thank them for their efforts, but in fact it is mainly cleaning up a failed government project. I therefore put my question to the Minister. Firstly, we ask the Minister to reflect on why it has not been possible to build support. How can it be that a proposal that was accepted by Parliament, because it would be important to and for teachers themselves, could not ultimately be introduced because these same teachers do not recognize themselves in it? What happened in those four years? In particular, what has not happened in those four years, which means that the register has run into the swamp so much that it is now up to Parliament itself to pull the plug? I also ask this because we have had a bit of a nasty taste in it that we have agreed to the proposal with the essential remark that the government should have the profession. I put my hand into my own bosom: perhaps we were naive by thinking that the government would want and can realize that. But if that has been exchanged in such a way in the debate, how can it be that it has failed so fatally? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. The second question concerns cross-compliance. With or without a teacher register, the demand remains enormous what it takes to get teachers for the classroom with sufficient time to do their job well and enough space to develop themselves optimally. The challenges have only increased, as we read in the most recent state of inspection education. Of course, the government has done some things, but apparently it is not effective enough. In fact, even good monitoring of the problem of the shortage of teachers is already proving complicated. How does the Minister look back on his commitment to this file? In this political period, I ask: what should his successor do to achieve more results? Maybe it'll help him or her if we can give those lessons ahead of time. This question is ultimately more urgent than the entire teacher register. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the rather wondrous presentation in the written answer to the questions put by this Chamber. According to the initiators, the voluntary teacher portfolio can continue in a private form, but the Minister believes that it should be discontinued if this initiative law is accepted. This seemed to be a rhetorical argument, especially in the case of further questions from this Chamber, to encourage opposition to the initiative law. When asked by the Chamber, the Minister indicated much more precisely what the situation was and what could and could not be done. I think that is in line with what the initiators hope, namely that the government wants to support that transition. My final question to the Minister is therefore: is he willing to cooperate con amore and proactively with the adoption of this law on the launch of the voluntary teacher portfolio? We look forward to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Mr Van Apeldoorn has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have great appreciation for both initiators and for the work they have done. Some people complain about the number of laws of initiative from the Lower House, but the SP Group sees the right of initiative as an essential part of our parliamentary democracy. It is good that the House of Representatives regularly makes use of this, especially if the government fails to do so. In doing so, we note that Mr Kwint is one of the MPs who really makes good use of the right of initiative, because this is the second time in two years that we have been able to welcome him to this house to defend an initiative law. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the content. If the bill is passed here, this initiative law will abolish the teacher register. My party was never a great supporter of this, at least not in the way it came into the law. At the time, we voted against the introduction of the teacher register in both chambers. It will therefore not be surprising that I will now, more than four and a half years later, advise my group to vote in favour of abolition. I see that is a relief for Mr Kwint. Well, I guess it'll be obvious right away. It has already been recalled by the previous speaker that the idea behind the teacher register was not wrong at the time. It may be a way for the profession to maintain the proportional standards of the profession and thereby give the profession of teacher a stronger professional identity with more recognition and prestige. Those arguments for the teacher register were expressed eloquently in this Chamber by you, President, among other things. Of course, teachership deserves greater prestige, because it is an essential profession for the future of our society. But then that register must also be of the teachers, the profession itself. It's been said a lot. That was the intention, at least that was what the government told us at the time, but the reality soon turned out to be another one, as my group pointed out in the debate on the introduction at the time by my predecessor Mr Gerkens. The feeling at the time, above all in the field, was that a teacher's register could be the closing point, but that the quality of education had to be improved in a variety of areas before imposing such a new obligation. That was also the conclusion of our former colleague of the Upper House, Alexander Rinnooy Kan, in his advice to the Minister at the end of 2018. According to Rinnooy Kan, the teacher's register became essential and was "experienced by many teachers as a threat rather than as a support for the profession. In short, there was a lack of support and ownership among teachers." This was the case for the whole process, including the attempts to create a new professional organisation necessary for the teacher register. This necessary condition for the teacher register is still not met. This quality improvement is still very much needed, because unfortunately too little has been done about this in recent years. That is why, we say with Mr Rinnooy Kan, we need a fresh start. As far as the SP Group is concerned, that means saying goodbye to this teacher register. How does the Minister see this? Doesn't he think that fresh start is necessary in the light of what I've just argued? In the meantime, there is hardly anyone who thinks that the time is ripe for the teacher register, at least on this basis, not even the supporters of that time. Then why leave it in the law? Forced introduction now would reduce the attractiveness of the profession rather than increase it, at a time when we are still suffering from a huge shortage of teachers. Mr. Chairman. My group believes that the conclusion is inevitable. The introduction of the teacher register simply failed. Almost everyone agrees on that. Does the Minister recognize this, as I ask him, and can he reflect on that failure? Taking the teacher register out of the law is the right choice in substance, but in the opinion of the SP Group, it is also the only pure way of achieving this. As the initiators rightly point out: you cannot let a law enter into force and then not implement it year in, year out, without even looking at implementation, but leave the legislation intact with the idea that it could be activated later. This also creates uncertainty and uncertainty for the teachers themselves. I ask the Minister how he sees this. Why did the government choose not to implement the law already in force for an indefinite period but to allow it to continue to exist? Why did the government leave it to the House of Representatives to fix this? Does the Minister really think this is all right under state law, or does the Minister agree with my group that it is at least not a fine figure? It is actually a mystery to my group why the government wanted to stick to the failed teacher register. Is it the fear of loss of face? Mr. Chairman. I also have two questions for the initiators. They wanted not only the teacher register but also the so-called professional statute out of the law, something to which a large part of the profession attached great importance, as I have seen. In the opinion of my group, the House of Representatives has managed to avoid this by means of an amendment. Can the initiators explain again why they initially considered that the professional status could also be better out of law and why they then changed their opinion in the Lower House? Was the latter mainly political opportunity or have the initiators really been convinced in this respect? Secondly and finally, Mr President. With the initiators, my group believes that new initiatives should be left mainly to the teachers themselves. But if the initiators were to be asked for an open opinion, would they have ideas as to what might be a good way to achieve the goals originally formulated behind the idea of the teacher register? And would there be any need for a new law or amendment of the law in due course, or are they completely agnostic in this respect? I see Mr Bishop laughing. I look forward to the response of the initiators and the minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Mr Pijman has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is not often that an initiative proposal is dealt with here by a Member of the House of Representatives of the Conservative-Christian Right and a Member of the House of Representatives of the radical Left, the initiative being to delete an initiative from the previous government. Mr Bisschop and Mr Kwint found each other in the deletion of the provisions on teacher register and the register portal from the different education laws. I would like to congratulate them on this initiative and on the work that has been done. On February 14, 2017, I didn't know it was Valentine's Day, but I don't think I need to remember that either.We discussed the introduction of the teacher register and the register portal here. It was a proposal of the previous cabinet, of VVD and Party of Labour. Secretary of State Dekker defended it. That's what he did with verve. Both supporters and opponents moved in favour of the debate, although the opponents were large in majority. There seemed to be little support for it. During the debate, I expressed my doubts as to whether it would prove feasible. There was not much difference of opinion on the background of the proposal. The quality of our education stands and falls with the quality of the teachers. They are the cultural carriers that transfer values and standards. They teach our children cognitive and affective skills. Our prosperity is based on the quality of our education. That's why D66 also supports a better salary for teachers. That is why the status of teachership in our society is so important. Therefore, the conditions under which they can do their work should be as optimal as possible. This is why it is important that teacher training is excellent and that the opportunities for further education and further training are adequate. That's how I spoke in 2017. Is the situation different now? No. The necessary steps have been taken, but it is far from optimal. The introduction then went back to the opinions of the Van Es Committee and later to the Rinnooy Kan Committee. We have debated it a great deal in our group. The proposal seemed to be based on the BIG register as it works for health care. But the lack of support, the governance structure, the role of the Education Co-operation, the role of the trade unions and the lack of self-direction of the teachers made us so doubtful about the feasibility that D66 voted against. We got right. The register didn't work and the Education Cooperation has been lifted. The question now is whether we should also remove the provisions on the teacher register from the law as the initiators want, or whether we should maintain them, so that we may later be able to use them again, as the minister, also adviser on behalf of the cabinet, believes. One of my objections to the proposal at the time was that it only recorded formal learning, but was not sufficiently linked to a learning culture in schools. What's it gonna be like? Goodhr policy in schools is the task of the school boards and, above all, management of the schools. In schools there must be room for formal learning, courses, but also for a professional learning culture with peer review. It is not just about knowledge, but also about didactic and educational skills, which can get impulses when peer review in the school and between schools becomes the norm. There is still a lot of work to be done. How do the initiators assess this? I would also like a response from the Minister on how he has promoted this in recent years. We believe that such a professional culture is one of the efficiency requirements on which the inspection should question the management of schools. In short, a professional culture promoted and monitored from below by the inspection, in which the professional status determines the role and competence of the individual teacher and the teacher collective, and the teacher portfolio determines the individual development. The government is much more the facilitator of the schools, but has no formal role other than in the BIG register. I would like a response from both the initiators and all the ministers. There has been discussion about the voluntary teacher portfolio. Last Friday's letter from the Minister, also a consultant on behalf of the initiators, clarified the status. We think it would be a good thing if the inspection facilitated the schools by providing an example teacher portfolio that the schools could use. I'd like a response from both the initiators and the minister. Is he prepared to promote this? Mr. Chairman. In the original proposal of the initiators, the intention was also to delete the professional status. The House of Representatives took this out of the proposal by amendment. Luckily, I'd say so, otherwise I'd have started to doubt. Why did the initiators have this intention? Was it really intended to limit the influence of teachers on professional culture? Or was it a mistake? We like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, whether it is wise to remove the dead letters of this article from the law, as the initiators wish, or to leave it, as the consultant wishes, because it may still be resurrected in the long term. D66 notes that the cabinet failed to bring the law to life four years after the law was passed. In the meantime, the desired governance has become obsolete. For us, therefore, it is obvious to put an end to a law which was well-intentioned, but which was not at all in line with professional practice. Mr. Chairman. We would like to await the reaction of the initiators and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. There is an interruption for Mr Van Kesteren for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u9	Is the level of continuing training of teachers decisive for the quality of these teachers and therefore also for education?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u10	Well, it's not just that. I've been talking about excellent teacher training. Continuing training is and remains extremely important. The average teacher has perhaps the Minister would like to say something about this later. I mean €600 he can spend on his own development. For example, he can take a course for that. That is a step forward. But compare that with the average official in the OCW ministry. What personal budget does it have to train and train? In addition, it is still very pale what schools can do. But I think it is very important, as I just said, that culture is so that peer review, that it comes together in the classroom and develop a didactic and educational concept, that it is common practice, because that is what it is very much about when it comes to the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u11	A lot of teachers have been in front of the class for a lot of years. They have trained themselves and they have gained a great deal of experience. It's also a field of experience, more or less. They have a little brother dead in training, because then come the courses they say they do not learn much from them. I'm just saying, a classroom atmosphere. A lot of teachers don't want to, they prefer to focus on that class with students. A teacher's portfolio isn't gonna fill up either. Is that, in your view, a teacher who is undervalued in quality for a colleague who subscribes to each course?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u12	No, of course you don't have to. But I do think it's part of a professional culture that you let yourself be educated and educated, that you have the knowledge and experience of the colleagues... Perhaps such an older colleague can teach a younger colleague a great deal. There must be such a culture. Of course, you also want to leave school and post-school when it comes to new learning methods and developments in a particular subject area. This certainly plays a major role in secondary education. So yes, the course is also part of a professional educational culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u13	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u14	So, if I understand correctly, Mr Pijlman is in favour of diversity in the offer of courses. But the practice is often that the whole team has to go on course, which then becomes a course of: we still have budget for it, so we have to register on a course and then let's do this with each other. That gives a lot of resentment in practice. That is why I always advocate diversity in the course offer. That's what you're here for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u15	Yes, if you insist, I'm starting to doubt, given where it came from. But let me say this about it. It might be important for a school to say: team, we're gonna do this together. But, at the same time, you are right. It is very important for the individual teacher that a course should fit in with what he or she wants to develop and where others can benefit from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u16	Then Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr Pijlman has just taken us to the inspection, which might perhaps help, which could be helpful. Isn't there a risk that if the inspection comes up with a proposal, it will appear a bit the same way as when the government does, so that the schools say 'it comes from the inspection'? We have to let it come from below.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u18	Yeah, but that doesn't have to bite each other, I guess. The inspection can very much help to create such a different culture in the school. I was just asking if it's possible to do something with the portfolio. It's an efficiency requirement: a good teacher. I believe that it has also been discussed in the debate in the House of Representatives. I believe that Mr Bishop has said the necessary thing about this. I also think that the inspection should seriously question the schools on this, because this is perhaps the most essential aspect of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u19	Thank you. I call Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Education is teaching. The rest is a side issue. The aim of the teacher register was to give teachers more space and responsibility and to strengthen their profession. The teacher register would give teachers more room to shape their own development, thus improving the quality of education. The teacher register would also have been designed by the profession itself. But none of that has been realized. The teacher register is mainly imposed from above and not designed by the profession itself. In the establishment of the teacher register, government and regular unions have proved to have been decisive. On the one hand, the teacher register aims to increase teacher control and professional protection and, on the other hand, it appears that little has been achieved, partly because there has been a constant deterioration in the legal status and working conditions of teaching staff. Apart from that, the workload has only been increased by large classes and less time for class preparation. Education unions are highly politicised and far from neutral, and have long since ceased to deal with the real problems in education. The teacher who is happy to stand in front of the classroom and spends all the time and energy on his students, and perhaps for that reason has not achieved enough points, is badly off with the teacher register. Mr. Chairman. That is why one has to go back to the drawing board with the aim of achieving a supported teacher register. There is, of course, a need to consult teachers and their representatives. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to a number of representatives of teachers who are not or hardly involved in the development of education policy and the teacher register in particular. These are respectively PO in action, Teachers in action and Better Education Netherlands. PO in action, Teachers in Action and BON (Beter Onderwijs Nederland) are initiatives by, for and by teachers who turn against the petrified power of directors, consultants and advisors in education because they largely determine the content of the education. These interest groups have a lot of feelings and communication with the field of work and have good ideas about educational practice, both educationally and legally. Compliance with the field of education is generally achieved with the regular professional representatives of interest groups, but they are increasingly away from their own supporters. This is also the reason why initiatives are launched from the field of action such as PO in action, Teachers in Action and BON. The aim of getting well qualified teachers to the classroom is not in the number of courses a teacher has taken. Those are also the inspiration and commitment for the class, the attention for the students. The professional needs of the individual teacher should once again be central. Make math and Dutch language prominent again. Teaching basic knowledge and basic skills must once again become the core task of the teacher, with direct instruction because this method provides much more effective learning time. Mr. Chairman. This plea for the position of the teacher for the classroom and the real representatives of the field of education I hold with the intention to involve the real field of education much more in education policy and in legislative proposals. The €8.5 billion promised for education is lucrative for the many consultants, advisers and educational innovators who have never been in the classroom themselves. The teacher for the classroom has been seen by the government and the coalition parties as closing points for years. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a question to the Minister. Is the Minister willing or willing to make a commitment to involve PO in action, Teachers in Action and Better Education Netherlands, who are close to the teacher in the classroom, much more in the development of education policy and the drafting of legislative proposals? I would like an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u22	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wish Mr Suharno every success in his maiden speech. Mr Bisschop and Mr Kwint wished to delete the teacher register and the register portal by means of this bill. The introduction of the teacher register was to strengthen the position of teachers and to make the professional quality visible and improved. The First Chamber passed the bill on 21 February 2017. The educational co-operation with which the teacher register is part of has now ended. However, this does not mean, in the view of the VVD Group, that the teacher register, which is temporarily not required by law, should be killed. The VVD Group asks the Minister whether it is not the case that the teachers now have the opportunity to come up with initiatives themselves and that this also works because teachers now seem to unite in a teacher collective. Is it not true that this is a way of professionalising the profession and that the register could be helpful in this respect? Why throw away the child with the bath water, the VVD group asks the minister. The VVD Group believes that it is indeed possible to make the teacher register a success in the long term. The register offers an opportunity to do everything possible to maintain the quality of teachers. Lesson development and the intervision and evaluation of lessons are also recognised in the teacher register. This contributes to the quality of education. It is important that teachers continue to train throughout their career. This can be kept in the teacher register by teachers themselves, from primary education, secondary education and secondary vocational education. Moreover, the VVD Group understands that teacher training is also a means of maintaining the register. The VVD Group asks the Minister if that is true. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group asks the initiators whether the deletion of the registry provisions also removes the legal basis under the voluntary teacher portfolio. The VVD Group would regret the fact that the teacher portfolio should be discontinued in its present form. The VVD Group understands that this would deprive more than 14,000 registered teachers of the opportunity to keep up with their professionalisation in the teacher portfolio. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. Mr. Ganzevoort has an interruption for you on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u24	I wonder whether Mrs De Blécourt, when she talks about the value of such a register, really does not refer to the voluntary portfolio, which is still working. Isn't that what she's confusing with the teacher register? Then why should the mandatory register remain there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u25	Because the VVD fraction has the idea that the child is thrown away with the bath water. Because if you cancel the teacher register now, it might well be that the teachers will want the register later. Then we'll have to re-agree with the law in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u26	But the portfolio is still there. Apparently, that's what teachers want. I don't see that when the baby throws away the bathwater. I see that even Mr Bishop, who called it a comatose state in the House of Representatives, saw euthanasia as a solution to that. I thought that would go a long way for him. So I think that's three steps further than throwing away the baby with the bath water. There is no teacher register; there is a portfolio. I think that's what we're saying it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u27	Nevertheless, I know that that is the view of your group. My group's view is that it is premature to delete the teacher register now, because the teachers are now uniting. You say: the teachers want the portfolio; they do not want the register. My group is not yet convinced of this. That is a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u28	Mrs De Blécourt said in her speech that the law provides a basis for introducing the teacher register in the long term. My simple question to Mrs De Blécourt is: what time should that take? At what time did the VVD Group think it would still be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u29	Thank you for your question. The VVD Group has understood that I have just asked the Minister that teachers are now uniting. So we do not know exactly what they want at the moment and whether they might want to resuscitate that teacher register, just to stick to that pun.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u30	Perhaps Mrs De Blécourt has other information than the information I have at my disposal. I note that the law which the teacher register had to be introduced four and a half years ago was adopted, that we, and the government, have had four and a half years to bring it into being and that it has not so far succeeded. I have also mentioned in my previous text that these conditions are still not met. Mr Rinnooy Kan has also described this. That is still the case so far. Mrs De Blécourt says: something is happening now; we should wait and see. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u31	Yeah, Mr. Van Apeldoorn got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u32	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u33	I wonder whether Mrs De Blécourt can specify at what point in time the VVD Group believes that the conditions are being met, which have been absent for four and a half years. That could be in the middle of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u34	Well, that's why I've asked the Minister whether the teachers are actually uniting now and whether it looks like there's any progress in that movement. That is why the VVD Group thinks it is too early to delete the teacher register at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u35	I actually have two questions for Mrs De Blécourt and will ask them at the same time. The first one's about the teacher register. Imagine if the teachers would unite and say: we want a register. Does Mrs De Blécourt agree with me that they can do so on a voluntary basis, i.e. that they do not necessarily have to be based on a legal basis? That is the first question. The second question. I understand from Mrs De Blécourt's speech that she is afraid that this would also make the teachers' portfolio disappear. What's she basing that on? To be honest, I don't have that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u36	First, the first question. The question is: can it not also be voluntary and why then should we maintain the legal basis? I can also ask the other way around. Why should we take the legal base out of it, if we don't know if it's voluntary? Then why don't you just let that legal base exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u37	I fully agree with Mrs De Blécourt that you can ask the question the other way around, but I did not. I said, why would you do it? Why wouldn't you let the teachers do that voluntarily? Maybe it gets a lot more body than when it's a must, as it seems to be experienced now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u38	It's just that we have a legal basis. If it is true that the teachers want it voluntarily, then I would say: all the better, because then there is already a legal basis. That would be my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u39	I do not think we are getting very much further on this. But my second question, about the teacher portfolio?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u40	So far, 14,000 teachers have indeed registered in that portfolio. That's part of the teacher register. If you remove the register, you can leave it in place voluntarily, but the VVD Group is wondering why we would get the legal basis we have out of there. That's actually the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u41	Maybe there's another approach. It was intended that the Education Co-operation would be given control. That has become a fatal failure. If we recall that debate four years ago, the power of expression of teachers in the teachers' association would take shape. It doesn't even exist anymore. And you're saying, yes, but the teachers are uniting now. Well, maybe, but then I missed something, to be honest, because what clues do you have that the united teachers would like to keep this teacher's register now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u42	I think I just answered that question and asked the Minister that question. This is what the VVD Group has understood. We will hear it later and perhaps get more explanation from the Minister in that regard. Then my answer is: if the teachers wanted it to happen voluntarily, which many groups in this Chamber assume, why remove the legal basis? The VVD Group does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u43	No, I got that. Then how do you view this governance structure? Indeed, there is no longer the intended governance structure. He's gone, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u44	The VVD Group believes that even though the Education Co-operation has been lifted, which is so, that does not mean that you should remove the teacher register from the law, precisely because those teachers probably want to maintain that teacher register. We'll see. We'll see the answer later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u45	This is kind of the kind of reasoning...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u46	Yeah, it's a bit of a circle, but that goes for...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u47	We'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u49	I have read in the documents that it actually seems that there is a great deal of resistance to that teacher register and it actually stands in the way of any other discussion, because it is just about that. I read in the argument that it is a very good idea to remove it, because it opens the way for a fresh start. How do you look at that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u50	I understand that differently, and I will wait for the Minister's answer before I answer you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u51	Then I'll go to the as-dan variant. Imagine if that's the case, how do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u52	I'm not gonna answer a like-dan variant. If you don't mind, I'll wait for the Minister's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Suharno on behalf of the CDA. Mr Suharno will speak his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. I got into the First Chamber in the meantime. And as a specialist in the field of ethics and integrity... and the oath in particular.... I fell into the butter with my nose. Because after taking the purification oath, I turned out to be covered by a brand new integrity code with a thick explanation. And not such a boring integrity code that only normalizes peripheral phenomena, such as the registration of secondary functions, the maximation of the gift amount or the reporting of travel. But one that aims to penetrate the heart of what the First Chamber stands for. Because through all the rules, there's one message. Although we are all embedded in political groups, parties and social associations, everyone has to base their vote on their own independent judgment. The question that any integrity specialist would ask is: is that also the culture in the First Chamber? What roles do lobbyists play? What about group discipline? To what extent is the party line self-evident? I refer to the recently heard argument that a formation variant would be preferable, precisely in view of the majority in the First Chamber. What does that say about the task of the First Chamber? I'm going back to the integrity code. Can that code, if necessary, change the culture? The Greek tragedy poet Aischylos, known from the Oresteia, wrote about the oath: "An oath does not make people credible, but people have to make the oath credible." That is also the case with the code of conduct. It doesn't make us credible. It's up to us to make that code credible. At a group meeting, a fellow group member said that politicians had been given a relatively short time. Now, for the short time given to me as a politician, I hope to contribute to making our work credible. Mr. Chairman. I'll get on the bill. In essence, this proposal meets two commendable wishes. First of all, this is the desire to monitor professional quality. According to the memo at the time, the introduction of the teacher register is necessary to ensure that all teachers and teachers will meet the requirements of competence and will also maintain those requirements. There's something tough about that too. According to the pleading, the next step is to consider the introduction of disciplinary rights for teachers who do not meet the requirements. Secondly, there is the desire for professional appreciation. It's been said here before. The teacher register is the final piece of a law defining the profession of teacher and regulating the recognition of professional space. I also refer to the professional status. These wishes can be abraded, because recognition and appreciation are about acceptance. This should apply all the more to a strict register and, where appropriate, disciplinary law. Disciplinary law amounts to monitoring of the group standard by the group. The thrust of this proposal was therefore that a register would only be introduced if there were sufficient support from the profession and stakeholders, such as school leaders and school administrators. The reason we are here today is that there is still no support for this, as the initiators argue. We heard GroenLinks say that there is actually broad agreement on this analysis. Already in 2016 was the clear diagnosis of the Council of State: there is not yet a self-conscious profession based on its own ethos and ensuing own standards and disciplinary law. Apparently, there's no support for that either. The results from the internet consultation I spent a Sunday afternoon speaking volumes in that respect. There are, for example, three things that stand out: that the register is perceived as an administrative burden, or in the words of a teacher as "an administrative freak," that the strict registration requirement is perceived as a sign of mistrust; and that what is already being done in the field of strengthening professional competence is not or is not fully reflected in the "finding" of competence requirements in a register. I just heard D66 say that of course the learning culture is richer than just formal learning, if I rebut it properly. Some initiatives from the sector, e.g. a voluntary register, seem to come to fruition in the shadow of this law. The proposal put forward by the proposers today is therefore to maintain the professional description and recognition of the professional area in the professional status, but to abolish the statutory register. I have a question for the authors and questions to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would ask the authors to clarify precisely where, in the words of Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP, the need for the abolition of state law lies. After all, the teacher register has not yet been introduced and will not be introduced without support. It's just a dead letter right now until there's support. I would therefore like to put the question of the VVD not to the Minister, but to the authors. Then the questions to the Minister. We have been confirmed by the Minister that the legal basis for the portfolio will indeed lapse. I would like to ask the Minister to what extent this is bad. How many teachers and schools use this portfolio, not a voluntary register, but a portfolio? And if it is really necessary, to what extent are there possibilities to retain that portfolio in another way? That is also the question of GroenLinks, which I would like to join. Finally, Mr President. The CDA wants responsibility spread from the core value to stand for a government that is not above, but at the service of society. Along this path, I am sympathetic to this bill, which opposes top-down measures without support. In addition, a professional group of such importance, which suffers from serious shortages and is over-demanded in many respects, deserves full recognition and appreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u55	Thank you, Mr. Suharno. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You're a theologian, a philosopher and a lawyer. Theologian became you at Utrecht University, philosopher at Radboud University and the Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität in Münster, and back in Utrecht you obtained your PhD in law in 2009 on a dissertation on the integrity of the judge. From that moment on, you will also be working as a teacher of professional ethics for sitting and standing magistrate at the Study Centre for Law, which provides the courses as judge, counsellor, prosecutor and legal officer. Since 2012, you have been Professor of Law at the University of Amsterdam in a philosophical perspective. So we can see that you have affinity with the subject of education. Apart from being a teacher, you are also a lawyer, namely as a lawyer corporate law and cassation at law firm De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek. From your work as a lawyer and as a legal philosopher, you are also editor of the Netherlands Journal of Legal Philosophy, researchfellow at the Montaigne Centre for Justice and Conflict Solution of Utrecht University and advisor in the financial sector, in particular about ethics and the related banking oath. And that brings me to your particular area of attention as a right-wing philosopher: the swearing-in. In 2013 you said in an interview with Trouw that they rarely take the oath alone, but almost always in front of others. I quote: "So you always have something to do with a community. The responsibility for the concrete implementation of the oath, for its values, lies not only with the person taking the oath, but also with the profession to which it belongs." On 28 September, you took the oath here. Not for the first time, but for the first time as a politician, when you joined the First Chamber of the States General. And indeed not on your own, but in front of the other Members of Parliament. We share the same responsibility. Congratulations again on your maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment so that I can congratulate you, of course, on behalf of all my fellow Members, at a distance of 1.5 metres. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations. I would ask Members to remain seated except for the chairman of the CDA's political group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u56	We'll continue the debate. I give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the usual disclaimer that I am chairman of the supervisory board of a school community. In the short period I have been associated with this, I have never mentioned the teacher register. So that makes it all bearable again. I would very much like to begin by congratulating Mr Suharno for his wonderful maiden speech, but also for his beautiful statement about the oath. Mr President, when I heard from you that he was also a theologian, I thought I was going to say the following to him straight away. I have heard once that the two fingers raised by the oath mean: two know of it; me and my good God. Let's discuss it sometime, but it might be possible at another time. Of course, I appreciate the many work done by the initiators together with their staff, who I believe are also here in the Chamber. A law that doesn't work doesn't deserve to exist. That is the case with the teacher register. Once it has been accepted, by the way, without the support of the SGP, but now it is time to clean up. A description of the profession is given in the Professional Teacher's Act. In addition, the professional space is laid down in a professional statute. Thirdly, a compulsory teacher register is included in that law, but the poachiness and resistance to a bureaucratic system are so massive that it has actually become a dead letter. That conclusion leads to a trade-off which is different for the Minister than for the two initiators. In itself, that is not an unusual situation. It will also happen the other way around, so the Minister will think of something that the two initiators think differently. In any case, if the teacher register falls, then the legal basis or the legal compulsion will be removed. I understand that the Minister considers it appropriate to maintain that legal status. In this case, however, my group agrees with the initiators that this is not a good route. In particular, the ever-growing repulsion against the teacher register does not help to make it a success in the future. In that respect, I do sympathize with the initiators. Those who argue that the basis for the register is not gone away, but that it is then that I have just exchanged it with Mrs De Blécourt without obligation. It can get a completely different, less loaded, filling in. If that is going to work and grow, because it is being perceived as a document of its own choice, which is actually used within a school or institution or in the transition to another educational institution, then perhaps the Minister has more sense than now with a teacher register that is perceived as being forced on and bureaucratic. After all, education is not a register in itself, but a method that does justice to the desire to promote quality and professionalism. Mr. Chairman. That is exactly the point that has been made in the internet consultation. There is a broad feeling that maintaining a legal system of a register is a lack of recognition of the fact that responsibility for professionalisation lies primarily with schools and teachers. I understand very well that the Minister will agree with this and that you would like to regulate such a responsibility legally. But if that legislation is perceived to be bureaucratic, as a choked-up straitjacket, and perhaps even wrong commercial incentives, then the remedy becomes worse than the ailment. Furthermore, the responsibility for professionalisation becomes visible in keeping track of the competence file. This is a document in which both the school and the teacher make it clear what the state of play is with regard to his or her ability. The Minister seems to argue that, in the absence of ownership, this competence file would not do justice to a teacher's own professionalisation process. My question to the Minister is: is there any objection to a geography teacher acting on his own initiative in, say, theology and having it mentioned in his own competence file? Even the school will have no objection to this, knowing that this theological knowledge can undoubtedly give the geography expertise a deeper dimension. Mr. Chairman. The competence file is kept by the competent authority and the portfolio by the teacher himself. However, the regulation of the competence file could make more sense both by the school and by the teacher. Can the Minister help to ensure that this is done, for example by granting a right to include certain items and by means of transfer possibilities to another employer? Mr President, I should like to say a few words about this. In general, there seems to be a difference of understanding between government and initiators about the gap between theory and practice. The government wants to stick to the current status quo in order to maintain freedom of movement and flexibility. Meanwhile, there seems to have been a state-law uncomfortable situation. Various elements of the bill are in the refrigerator for an indefinite period of time, with the conditions for entry into force hardly being valid anymore. This raises the question of how far it is a matter of good governance to maintain legal provisions. The government's position in this regard therefore seems contradictory to itself: on the one hand, a legal obligation is maintained, which lays down framework conditions and requirements for the completion of the teacher register, which is a restriction on choice, because in this way the legislator takes over the practical implementation of the register, which is intended for and for teachers. On the other hand, the government's argument is that this obligation and the corresponding provisions should be maintained in order to maximise the freedom of choice for the profession. But it seems to me that both can't be true at the same time. Can the Minister reflect on this again? Mr. Chairman. At the same time, there is another perspective. The initiators want to delete the legal provision by means of their legislative proposal, in order to make a fresh start and effectively put the direction in the hands of the profession. I do have a question for the two proposers. What should be done to give the educational field unambiguous confidence to choose an approach that fits the specific target group, whether with a register or not? What ideas do they have? And does the Minister have any thoughts about that? Because if this bill is accepted, then it's a fact. But thinking of the desire of both ministers and proposers, it would be useful to play an active role in facilitating the process of the profession itself in order to achieve desirable and necessary professionalisation. That is why I look forward to the answers of the Minister and both applicants. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u58	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mrs Fiers, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u59	Thank you. First of all, congratulations on my behalf for the beautiful maiden speech. Indeed, an oath is a dead letter if together we do not implement it. So that's recognizable. Mr. Chairman. Good education falls or stands with a good teacher or good teacher. I'm sure we all have our own examples of that. From my own school career I remember the teachers who made me curious to look further and think further. I am thinking in particular of my physics teacher, Mr. Van Lieshout, at the Pius X-College in Bladel. At the time, he stimulated me as one of the few girls in his class to understand the wonderful world of physics. A statement by Einstein has always remained with me, namely that a statement should be as simple as possible, but not simpler. So not at the expense of accuracy. I have been able to use this wisdom in the rest of my life and is also very useful in politics. Now back to the teacher register. A good teacher is indeed more than what you can record in a formal teacher register. A number of speakers have already mentioned this. There is nothing wrong with the original objectives of the teacher register. I believe that the initiators agree with me. The question is, did I judge that correctly? The aim of this part of the law on the teacher's profession of 2017 is: "to strengthen the position of the teacher and thereby make the profession more attractive and improve the quality of education by providing structural assurance of the maintenance of competence." You'd expect all teachers to go to school and cheer for such a fantastic proposal. But nothing could be further from the truth. It's become a piece of shit. Somewhere this part of the law has taken a wrong turn and it has become a discussion point and a stand-in-the-way. The Group of the Party of Labour is curious to see what the initiators and also the minister see as the cause of the situation. The answer to that question is important for a successful follow-up, but perhaps also for similar issues in other sectors of society. Where did this resistance come from? Are these genuine concerns about the usefulness and necessity of the teacher register or concerns about a possible bureaucracy? Or is there a more general distrust of educational plans from The Hague? Or is it seen too much as an obligation to professionalize out of mistrust? Or is it perhaps even more fundamental and is the teacher register not seen at all as an effective tool for achieving those beautiful objectives I just expressed? Mr. Chairman. I would like to dwell on the consequences of the possible deletion of the teacher register. The big question, of course, is: how to proceed? First of all, I would like to mention the general objectives of the teacher register and then I would like to address the more specific objective of ensuring the maintenance of competence. The general objectives of making the teacher's profession attractive and strengthening the position of the teacher are still beyond doubt. Work on these objectives is therefore still very much needed. The group of the PvdA is curious to see how the initiators and also the minister look at these general objectives. Finally, the more specific objective is to ensure structural maintenance of skills. The initiators want to use the bill to "open the way to give the profession the chance to start working on its own." They want to give the profession "undouble the trust." The group of the PvdA can follow the initiators in their argument that, given the situation that has arisen, it is important to start again. We do have some questions for the initiators. Will the profession succeed within a reasonable period of time to ensure structural maintenance of competence? What is needed, in addition to unequivocal confidence, I ask the initiators. My group is also interested in the Minister's reply to this. Because honestly, we do have some concerns about that. Good intentions are certainly there, but there is a number of speakers who have already referred to a major shortage of teachers at the moment, and it is therefore to be expected that in-service training in all kinds of schools will be the first to die at the time when daily schedules have to be made again. Is it real, then, to expect that the profession will achieve this structural guarantee under the present circumstances? We now have emergency measures allowing unauthorized persons to go to class. It sounds a bit like mopping with the tap open. The ball for the solution will now lie with the profession. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wonders whether this is realistic. We are also curious about the response of the initiators to this. Mr. Chairman. I end as I started, with Albert Einstein's quote: "The solutions to a problem must be as simple as possible, but not simpler." Perhaps that quote also applies to the teacher register and it is too simple a solution to a very persistent problem in education, which actually requires a completely different solution. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u60	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u61	I would like to ask Mrs Fiers the following. Is making the teacher attractive dependent on the teacher register? Is this dependent on the level of training or the teacher register? You call that "skill maintenance." Is whether you are a good teacher, is the quality of education and the teacher dependent on that teacher's register?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u62	I have quoted the objectives of this part of the law. That was about the intention to make the profession of teacher more attractive as well. I think quality assurance can contribute to this, but that is certainly not the only thing. As I have just said, there are major problems in education which I believe require a solution or an approach rather than a register. I also agree with your previous remark that there is much more than just a register. I don't know if my Mr. Van Lieshout, the physics teacher at the time, was on the website which training courses he had done, but I remember him as a good teacher. Those were skills that you can't simply put in a register. So that's the formal education, but there's a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u63	Mr Van Lieshout probably had the skill to encourage you to move on in a particular subject. He wouldn't have learned that in a course, I suppose. That is also the point I want to make. Is a teacher's register and the amount of continuing training decisive for teachers' skills? You are talking about the objective of such a teacher register. That is all very well, but we also have to deal with the support and how it lands in practice. So it turns out in practice that a large proportion of people in front of the class do not like that teacher register at all. They have given their reasons for doing so. What do you think of that? Should we stick to that teacher register, or should we just delete it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u64	No. I have also indicated that I can follow the initiators in their ship ownership to delete it, given the situation that has arisen. My questions are mainly concerned with how to proceed. Because the objectives that were originally conceived are still standing. That is why I am looking for and also interested in the response of the initiators and the Minister how they view it. In answer to your question "is the teacher register the only simple solution?" I say: no, that is not the only solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u65	Finally, I would like to ask Mrs Fiers if she thinks that the trade union, the Aob in the current situation, the grassroots, the people in the field, the men and women in the classroom, is well represented? Are you convinced that if you take all this into account in your speech and in your opinion on the functioning of a union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u66	I think we can discuss the functioning of a union for an entire afternoon. In my opinion, it is important that there are different players who have a role and a responsibility in maintaining the ability of a teacher. There are different opinions about that. I think the resistance at the moment is so massive that almost everyone is against it. That is why I think the initiators have a point: get it out of the law and start again. Only my questions are about that not being easy either. So I'm looking for how these parties sitting here at the table look at the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u67	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall now suspend the meeting for the break. In connection with committee meetings, I shall suspend until 3.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u68	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the law 35145, the abolition of the teacher register and the register portal. We now need the response of the initiators and the government in the first term. I give the floor to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, thank you very much for the hospitality and the opportunity to explain and, if you like, defend our initiative proposal here. Perhaps it is a bit unusual to do from the House of Representatives, but I would like to add my congratulations towards Mr Suharno for his beautiful, concise, reflective maiden speech. I enjoyed it. There was some joy about the close cooperation between SP and SGP. This also has a deeper meaning in the following sentence. Sometimes we say that the SP only misses one letter, or the SP says that the SGP has one too many. But apart from that: we sometimes, where necessary, deliberately seek cooperation with political opponents, at least in this way they appear in the media in order to make the following clear. You can have a profound difference of opinion. That's legitimate. For that you have the different political parties, at least in the Lower House. But you can also find the connection. At the moment there are things where you recognize each other, maybe from different flight routes, then look each other up and then pull together. That too is a signal in the direction of society. I'm from education. That might be a bit of an example. So that remains a bit in it. Mr. Chairman. Several members have indicated: you can be positive about the teacher register in itself. Mrs Fiers of the PvdA was very explicit about this. The question is: how can things go so wrong? If it's from, for and by teachers, isn't that something worn by the profession? Yeah, that's right. But that's where it starts: from, before and by the profession. Indeed, the words already fell: it has been experienced in many ways as bureaucracy, imposed from above, too little from below, too little from the professional practice, too little from a structure where professional practice felt supported by Mr Suharno pointed out this and too much top-down. As was also said: from a final piece it became a matter of substance. In our view, that is one of the reasons why we have not managed to get something off the ground at the end of the day. The framework conditions which the Council of State also indicated in its opinion include matters which should be in order first: the size of classes, the remuneration................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In that case, as a final piece, you get a register in which the profession recognizes itself. In our view, too much has started from the other side: if you only have a register, that might lead to it. Well, that didn't work out, I guess. This is what we have done. As initiators, we have divided the questions. We have raised four themes, although it is sometimes difficult to distinguish them strictly. The first thing we want to talk about is necessity and solution. The second theme is the importance of professionalisation. The third theme is the teacher shortage and the teacher register and the fourth theme is the development of the profession and the development of the teacher register. I will take care of the questions relating to the first two issues, and the third and fourth issues will be dealt with by Mr Kwint. An important point is the need and the solution. We have already talked a bit about the need to set up a teacher register, whether or not it is justified. I'm not gonna repeat that. The point is that this could be widely supported as a final element of an approach. That didn't happen. Then, of course, you get the question: in a number of laws, provisions have been put to non-active use for an indefinite period of time; can they just do that? That is why, from a purely constitutional point of view, we have said that this is one consideration to make this initiative proposal. This is not possible: a law is in force or a law is not in force. You cannot suspend provisions indefinitely if there are no time limits. That is why it is necessary to abolish what has become a dead letter. That is one consideration. A second consideration is: 'We all know that this discussion is so incredibly loaded that it will never work out again'. I appreciate it in Mrs De Blécourt that she remains hopeful because there are as many as 14,000 teachers using the portfolio, but we should put that against the 250,000 teachers who are there. Then it's a percentage of about 5.6. Even after the teacher register has been put in the closet and that option of a teacher portfolio has been developed and opened up, that number remained about the same. This also has to do with some uncertainty about the data delivery. Is that allowed, or is it not allowed, by the competent authority without the consent of the person concerned? All in all, it actually died a soft death, you might say, as far as it's ever lived.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u70	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u71	I like state-law purity and so do Mr Bishop. Then perhaps it would be a good idea to go a little more closely into the question of whether you have a law that has been passed and which is not working. I do feel that way, but to check whether we are consistent enough in that respect, let me ask you a question. Offending the flag of Switzerland: it says in the law that it is not allowed. The question is: that is a law that applies and that applies to this law as well. I do not think that is maintained, at least not as far as I know. The question is, is that in the same category or is it a bit of a state-law correct argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u72	Thanks for the question. I don't know if it's completely comparable. It seems to me that insulting the Swiss flag is more a criminal matter than a civil matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u73	That's right. It's in the Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u74	So you're gonna need a charge. I do not have the impression that the government is actively maintaining this. I get the impression he's using the boas for other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u75	Of course, that's not my question. That's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... The question is, of course, whether the argument that it is a dead letter should weigh so heavily on state law that it should in itself indicate abolition. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u76	Thank you. But that is why I would like to draw attention to the distinction between civil law and criminal law. For criminal enforcement, you're gonna need a report. If someone reports and dismisses or says that this is very relevant, then that question applies. At the moment when it is not actually maintained when it is at issue, it has become a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u77	That was the case with the ban on blasphemy. That is why it has been deleted. I am glad that Mr Bishop agrees. That's good news. I think this is a distraction, because the real question was of course a different one. The real question was whether the alleged state-law reason is convincing in itself. That's why if it's a dead letter, you have to get it out of the law. I am simply not entirely convinced of that, although I share the intention of the proposal in itself. I do not think that is such a strong argument. Actually, that's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u78	Let me leave aside the example you mentioned. In general, we believe that it is a good principle of state law that what is not practicable should not burden the legislation. But there are several additional arguments. I was trying to name them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u79	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u80	For us, that is a matter of state law. I'm gonna go back to the dead letter it's become. I have already mentioned a few points in the introduction which may be the cause of the enormous resistance it has raised. Of course, it remains an opportunity to choose a voluntary continuation with that teacher portfolio. It's possible. There, too, is the discussion about the power to have personal data provided by the competent authority to a central register. This has led to confusion and confusion. These are all matters that have burdened the whole issue so much that it seems to us wise to say: boys, if we want to do something about this, then we will have to start with a completely clean slate. It may well be that the teacher portfolio can eventually develop into a generic structure. Then you will undoubtedly need different legal and legal structures and guides than are currently enshrined in those laws. That is why this issue of state-law purity remains clearly a matter of concern to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u81	I was wondering. I do not know if Mr Bishop has said everything. I may be a little early. What exactly is your analysis of what caused the resistance? You mention that there may also have been a misunderstanding about the status. I'd appreciate it if you'd look into that a little more deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u82	Thank you. I had just mentioned it in connection with the points that you have raised. I think all the cases that Mrs Fiers has appointed, always with a question mark, it was this, was it? The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the The necessity, the usefulness, was actually not sufficiently experienced from the inside. So the need was not great, so to speak. The issue of bureaucracy is also involved: what are they going to do about it later? Indeed, I have heard this on a regular basis in the contacts about the teacher register: "What is The Hague planning to do with this? It is not ours, but it is theirs." With that suspicion, you're putting your finger on the wound. That is a distressing point to which we, as legislators, must be accountable. So I agree with you. In addition, it was perceived as a restriction of freedom. This has to do with the fact that there is already a support structure to ensure the promotion of skills. Only, it is not applied in practice. I'll come back to that in a minute. At the moment that you would apply it, that would also be seen as a restriction of freedom. And then there is indeed the issue of bureaucracy: what does it yield compared to the effort you have to add? An additional argument is, I think, the way in which the market, with all due respect for the freedom of the market, has invested itself with all kinds of courses and offers on the possibilities of the future continuing training market. When you look at that list, sometimes those were indeed things you say: this is a way to make money easily. My colleague from the SP has also asked questions about this; he knows a lot more about it. That whole complex, all in all, has led to confidence falling far below zero. The last point I wanted to mention concerns the importance of professionalisation. How do we look at that point? As far as we are concerned, professionalisation is the heartbeat of healthy and vital education. It is death in the pot when a teacher rests on his laurels and thinks: I have the authority; now I am done. That is a form of child abuse; then I say it less diplomatically. It's a form of student abuse, I must say. You can't do that to a student. You have with joy, inspiration, commitment and passion to transfer your knowledge. A student has a right to that. This means that there is a need for continuous revitalization. So you're gonna need continuous training. It may be that you are capable of self-chosen courses. It may be that a school leader says "we have a lack of expertise in this area; let us ask around who is interested in this" and in this way is more or less steering. It's possible. It's very good that you're flying into this from an overarching plan, but if you give teachers the space to make choices based on their own preferences, then you get the most enthusiastic teachers. I think this can be a mix in itself that can greatly enhance the quality of education. In addition, I mentioned it just now in the direction of Mrs Mr Pijlman referred to this. As school leaders, the expertise and competence is recorded and preserved. In addition, it is, in any case, a necessity, so a demand for funding, that schools keep up with it. The practice is that there is little of that, unless a school chooses it very actively. But the inspection that should be directly monitored has never asked me at the time when I was director about the expertise promotion in the competence files of my staff. If you use that instrument, you can take a very quick step to serve both the strategic and the tactical importance of the expertise that the school needs and the space for the personal development that can be reflected in personal choices for courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u83	I have a feeling Mr. Bishop is a little contradicting himself. I find that difficult in the debate. On the one hand, he says in reference to Mrs Fiers' reply that there will be a sort of cowboy market of courses and so on, and that it is important for teachers to be able to choose for themselves. But they could then, and they can now. Why wouldn't there be a cowboy market now for teachers to choose freely and why would there be if there was a register? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u84	Thank you for this question. It gives the opportunity to clarify something. What I'm saying is, you can't put up a course of snooping as an expertise promotion. As far as I am concerned, there will be a quality test. That course should contribute to the promotion of expertise, the maintenance of competence, at the service of the education to which that person, that colleague, that teacher, has been appointed. In this sense, the non-committalness we saw in that course offer as a result of the teacher register and registration should, as far as we are concerned, definitely be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u85	I don't think this is a fair representation of the teacher register. Of course, the offer was there in all ways. I think there's always been. Even then, courses had to be tested and validated by the teachers themselves, or at least by organisations. The idea that there could then be a lot of anything and a lot of growth and that that is not possible anymore, I really find a distortion of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u86	In all honesty, we are not the only ones who at any time, when that process was going on, have wondered: how is it possible that this course has been validated for the purpose? As far as we are concerned, this should have been a much stricter selection. So that's where you'd have to get past the non-committal. So you should make a professional demand on that. The most important requirement should be: fine that you do something for your personal development, but what does that mean for the students you get in front of you? It may be that critical as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u87	Agreed. But that is the same thing in the teacher register as it is now. You need to validate it properly. You have to take a critical look at it. That is not a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u88	Let us then sum up in such a way that, as far as we are concerned, we may be more critically validated than in some cases in the teacher register. But I agree with you. I would like to take away the picture that about half of the courses were guilty of this kind of excessiveness. There were also very good courses, which could be very well offered. Mr. Chairman. If we remove this from the laws, it means that the focus will be on the instruments that are already available and that should be revitalised in order to take a short blow and to promote expertise in the short term. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, I would like to leave it at that and ask you to hand over the stick to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u89	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. In particular, I will hand over the cathedral to Mr Kwint after it has been cleaned. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u90	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all of you, and also on behalf of me, for the invitation to present our legislative proposal here. Mr Bishop had already announced: I will talk about the teacher register, including in the context of the teacher shortage. In addition, I will briefly consider the questions that have been asked about the further development of the profession and the possible development of the teacher register. In doing so, I will tell you that, and I will also give you an in-depth account of the professional status, as a number of pressing questions have been raised, not least by my own group, for which I thank you. But first of all, I would also like to express my appreciation for Mr Suharno, for his beautiful maiden speech. I do not think that it would be entirely appropriate for us, as the House of Representatives, to comment too strongly on the Upper House, but at least I would like to express my compliments. Then there is the teacher register in the context of the teacher shortage, a point raised by many speakers. Mr Ganzevoort spoke explicitly about the context of the deficit, Mr Van Apeldoorn said: the basis on order. Mrs Fiers, Mr Pijlman, there are many who have stood still in this regard. They were not the first to be there. It was already the Council of State that made this comment in the original bill, which was the basis for the introduction of the teacher register, and therefore called this bill "premature." Why? Well, precisely because of the examples given by Mrs Fiers, for example: because we see that classes are too large, that teachers have lost too many hours of their week teaching, because we see that more and more unauthorized teachers are in the classroom, because we see that there is a sharp fallout and that sometimes even one day a week there is no education for lack of teachers. The Council of State has already pointed out that if you want to make serious work of a register that is a final piece of work, which really only comes to the end of the process of making sure that the basis is in order, and after that a register is set up in which the quality of the individual teacher and the degree of further training he has followed are well maintained, then you should not do so now. We fear that the Council of State has been right about this. Then the follow-up question, raised by Mr Schalk among others, is what we can do to support the final objectives of the teacher register, even here today, despite the fact that there is still a little less consensus about the extent to which the register itself has become a success. I shall come back to having the basis set up when it comes to organizing a register of, for and by the professional groups, or at least the professionalisation of teachers, and thus possibly a final part of this longer development. We note that this has not happened, we also note that it has been warned and we also note that, in our opinion, the failure of the teacher register is at least partly traceable. Mrs Fiers asked a very compelling and interesting question: what if we think that this system has failed? Can the profession handle doing this on its own? I think the honest answer is that we don't know that yet. We'll see. I am positive about that, by the way. I refer to the enthusiasm with which teachers, on a Tuesday night, when they have to go back to work the morning after, put on their laptop to sign up for a course financed by the teacher's fair, because there was less budget there. Furthermore, they sometimes stand in line for an hour on an overloaded website, because they really want to professionalize and continue to be able to do so and give little eyes in the first hour the morning after that. Then we think there are good reasons to believe that the teachers' profession is very keen to take on the design of this further professionalisation. In addition, Mr Bishop has already mentioned the issue of decent HR policy and the role of the inspection in it. There is already a demand for funding that an educational director should properly shape the professionalisation of his own teachers. We think there is still room for improvement, for example in the implementation of the inspection, which is not so often considered. Just a moment ago it was about the various courses that are given. There may also be a role for inspection. But the honest answer to the question is: we do not know whether this will succeed, we do not know whether the profession will ultimately shape it in this way. There's no guarantee. But when we really take the words of, for and by the profession seriously, we must give them the confidence to shape them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u91	Mr Kwint has just said that the profession must organise this. What's this gonna look like in practice? The profession is often made up of teachers who are in front of the classroom and who are represented by a large trade union, the AOb, who is also involved. But there are also a lot of currents and movements that this profession believes to represent. What are we supposed to do with that? The AOb failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u92	With your approval, I will come back to that in detail in a moment, because I have a lot of praises about PO in action, about Teachers In Action and about several organisations you mentioned. I would advise any future leader of Education to have a lot of conversation with all those parties. But the question is, of course, that question has been asked several times during the debate as to how we see the further development and professionalisation of the profession before us, because we all share that need. I believe that Mr Suharno, like Mr Ganzevoort, asked how we might support the further development of the register. Let me be simple about that: that is on the field itself. If we're pure... I think that question belongs more to the Minister than to us. If people appreciate having access to their files, you'll have to see how you can shape them. But from the conviction that I am going to say it very often in the next few minutes, if we really want to put the question of how much it is needed back into the field of education itself. This brings us to the next question, which was once again asked by many but specifically by Mr Van Apeldoorn: how are we going to achieve that? Then I come back to what I just said, namely: the basis on order, the orderality of things. First make sure that it succeeds in getting smaller classes and that it succeeds in spending more hours on professionalisation, for example by reducing the number of teaching hours in secondary education. From the debates I have had in the House of Representatives with this minister, I have learned that I must always say that much has happened during this period. Let me take this opportunity to say that again. But I think the conviction is widely shared that at this moment, however bad it may be, we cannot say that that basis is in order. That is a major problem, and that is a great challenge for anyone who can take over the Minister's baton whenever that happens. But that is essential for the success of such a journey. Mr Pijlman mentioned, among other things, that the inspection could perhaps give an example portfolio to the schools. I thought it was an interesting suggestion. However, we do see some drawbacks. One of the reasons why the teacher register itself never got the full position within the field of education which at least the supporters had hoped for was precisely that there was very much the idea that something was being poured out about education from The Hague. Now I know that the education inspection is not The Hague. But we also know how the education inspection is sometimes seen by teachers and administrators. When a suggestion is made by the education inspector, it wants to enter teachers and administrations as an admonition or warning. I wouldn't say that right away: we don't do that. But I do think that we should be aware that the inspection, the ministry and politics of The Hague are seen by a lot of people in education as a whole. So I do not know whether most of the conviction is based on an example portfolio presented by the inspection. I would, for example, find it interesting to see how the collections of teachers themselves can play a role in this. We're gonna talk about the Teachers' Collective later. I am not going to impose it on them, but I would like it very much if, in the end, examples of what such a portfolio might look like would be exchanged from the professional practice of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u93	I'd like that, too. The point is, of course, that it all gets a different content. Just when you're a teacher at one institute and want to go to another, it would be nice if it looked a bit equal. I'm also gonna take a look at what you said about the inspection and the government. We shouldn't pretend the teacher's autonomous. The teacher is not autonomous. The teacher works with others for all our children and has to answer to society. One of those points is that, of course, those people have a duty to keep track of their profession, as we all do. I'm a little out of line if you're gonna sit all the way down on that autonomy. No, of course, as much as possible, but there's also an inspection. And, of course, there's a minister. They all have tasks and powers in our system. In this case, it might be more up to the Minister to facilitate. But you can sometimes say: no, this is part of this task in a public institution that is funded by public money. This is more a view than a question, but you may want to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u94	I was just about to ask, what is your question? Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u95	I believe that Mr Pijlman and I can easily agree on this view. But when it comes to the specific effect, I think we're back to what we were just talking about. I mean, for example, that the conduct of a healthy HR policy, which focuses on professionalisation and continues to determine yourself, is indeed a necessity and that there is a role to be played by the inspection. I would just like to point out in the specific case of the example portfolio the fear that when the inspection sets an example, it may be interpreted as something that is many times more compelling than that. That is a point that we wanted to warn against, precisely because of the conviction on which this whole bill is based. In that facilitating role you also mentioned, we would now like to place the ball at the field itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u96	I am also listening and in fact I hear that Mr Kwint, and just now Mr Bishop, insist on ownership: from, through, before. It may be that there is a certain lack of commitment. We find legal arrangements too massive and so on. I think you should look for a solution where you might indicate frameworks or something. Frameworks are something other than a law. But at least what should be in a portfolio? And who's gonna decide that? This way you make ownership as heavy as possible, but prevent you from falling free.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u97	I can imagine, but perhaps you should talk about further specifying, for example, the adequacy requirements. Now I know that we did that not so long ago in the House of Representatives, so I don't know how long it would take for something like that to pass through the Chamber again. But in that sense, by making it a more stringent requirement for the inspection, the competent authority would be the school board of the first appointed responsible. I would like to add that, of course, we have said on purpose: let us first give the field itself the chance to shape ownership. If we were to say 'but we have to meet these conditions' right now, I would prefer to do so afterwards if there is a proposal from the field rather than imposing it or giving it to us in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u98	Mr Kwint's first suggestion, of course, also hints at the funding condition that exists. That means you can make demands, too. But his second remark is: let them try for themselves first. There must be a moment when you say: yes, but now that no strings attached is too great. If students in a school can't handle the ownership of their position, we're gonna do something. So I guess that's what you have to guarantee here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u99	I do think that's a logical step. Of course, that freedom to shape does not come without the responsibility of doing something about it. I only think it would be wise to look for this first in the context of a framework that will be included in the inspection, because Mr Bishop also noted that this now offers a lot of room in practice; let me say it somewhat euphemistically. Then I think there's the first improvement there. We had just talked about the need to be sound. Then Mr Van Kesteren. He just announced all his demand for the various organisations in education. I can only fully endorse that. Over the last five years, I have been able to welcome many acquaintances as education spokesperson, and that will have been only more for the Minister. Education is rather crowded when it comes to various representatives of interests. Whether that is the Aob, which I often agree with and sometimes not, the same goes for PO in action, for Teachers in Action and for the Teachers collective as it is now designed. I agree with Mr Van Kesteren that it would be wise for every Minister of Education to deal with all those people. I also get the strong impression that this Minister of Education has done so with great regularity. Which brings me straight to the question that Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse asked about the Teachers collective in relation to the current teacher register. I think we see the same thing happening and yet look at it from the other side. We both see a professional group that is increasingly organizing itself, now for example in the form of the Teachers' Collective. I think we're both very excited about what's going on there. And that is precisely why we would like to appeal: do not burden such a promising initiative as the Teachers' collective with the long-standing negative legacy of this teacher register. Yes, teachers are now studying their own professional standards and a whole bunch of educational issues. That is precisely what I think we all say here is a development that we welcome. But if the end point of that journey is: and so do they have the responsibility for the implementation of such a disgusting register by so many teachers, then we are afraid that this will not do us any service to the profession. And that is why we have just said: okay, if the collective develops further or if there is another professional association, then primarily the ball lies with them to see how they want to shape it and we do not want to leave a kind of sword of Damocles hanging over a new collective the threat that they will then be held responsible for the execution of a register they did not ask for. Then there's the professional status. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether it was content or opportunism that we first put it in the law and then took it out. Mr Pijlman made a similar closed choice and asked: did you really want to restrict the room of teachers or was it just a mistake? It was actually just a third option, but let me let you talk through it slowly. There were a few reasons for us to include the professional status in the original legislative proposal, and there were also a number of reasons why we decided to embrace the amendment tabled by PvdA and GroenLinks during the parliamentary debate. What were the reasons why the professional status was originally included in this law? This was, among other things, confusion, because within the MBO two professional statutes came to exist side by side. But more importantly, Mr Bishop's argument was that of the clean slate. If you say: we want to give the professional group control over this and thereby remove the legal obligations arising from the earlier law, then if you consistently pursue that line, you could also delete the obligations and rights that come from the professional statute. Moreover, we also noticed some of the teachers we consulted... One of the most striking summaries I heard in the preparation was a teacher who said to me: a good school doesn't need him and a bad school does very little with it. But we have listened to what has happened since then. We did so both in the internet consultation and in the correspondence with the field that started afterwards, as well as in the discussions with organisations on the way to the examination of our initiative law in the Lower House. In it we saw two red wires formed. One, that there was a broad shared belief that this register is not working at the moment. The internet consultation almost gave North Korean results at that point. But there was also the conviction that it will not be so one-two-three again. And that's the difference with the professional status. We also heard a lot of teachers say that this really does not work properly everywhere and that there really are improvements to be made; but they also saw the potential for it. We believe that the professional status, if you give it time, can become a nice anchoring of the teacher's position within the school. This has also given us the key to embracing that amendment by PvdA and GroenLinks and ultimately making it part of our law. Mr. Chairman. I think I'll be through a great deal of my questions. If I have overlooked anyone, I apologize in advance, but I think that we have come to the end of our answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u101	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the questions I have asked, I would like first of all to say that I am here on behalf of my colleague, Mr Van Engelshoven, because this also concerns MBO. So I'll take care of her. I would also, of course, like to congratulate Mr Suharno on his maiden speech. It is always good to be able to witness this and to hear the motivations of people to take up political work, in this case as a Member of the European Parliament. I wish you every success, and wisdom and blessing in the work you do. Mr. Chairman. If I am making compliments, I will do so once more in the direction of the initiators. We differ on the content of their own initiative proposal, but I always have a great deal of respect for MPs who also open up the toolbox in the Lower House and come up with legislative initiative proposals. To my left are two men who have done so many times. Mr Bishop has been here many times and Mr Kwint has even been here for the second time. In particular, his first legislative proposal was very much supported by me. I realize, moreover, that this has even been a hammer piece in the end, that we have not even defended it anymore. We found that a bit unfortunate ourselves, but well, so be it. It has now entered into force and has to do with school costs and so on. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna come up with this bill. The assessment of the cabinet has already been made in the Lower House. We advise you not to vote for it. Of course, I'll explain here what's moving us. I speak on behalf of the cabinet to give you that advice. I'm here as an advisor. It's a bill that has a whole history attached to it. Some of you have even been physically present at the treatment of the Occupational Teachers Act in the Lower House. I thought Mr Schalk briefly summarized the fact that there were three issues involved in that law. It concerned the definition of the professional teacher with professional standards and the like. That is being fully worked on by all concerned at the moment. It was about the professional status. They were even working on this, especially in the MBO, before that legal basis came into being. Afterwards, there has been a lot of work on it in the other sectors as well. There is still a world to be won, but enormous progress has been made in working on it and clearly saying what those who work at school can count on. It is a constant point of attention how the professionalisation of hands and feet can be given. The third point has been the most disputed point, including in the legal process. That was the possibility of introducing a compulsory teacher register. From the very beginning, it has been very clear that the control of the profession would be the guiding principle. That also had to do with the support. If I look back over the shoulder now at the implementation of the law, as some of you have asked, then I can see that at least two thirds of the objectives of the law are being fully pursued. I believe that in many places this has led to the improvement we were aiming for when the law was presented to you by the previous cabinet. I note that, in the first year of my presidency, I was indeed confronted with a great deal of feelings about the teacher register and whether or not I entered it. The way in which this has been designed in practice should be called the name of the Education Co-operative, which led to so much discontent that I personally felt it no longer justified to leave that open for the rest of the cabinet period. I'm afraid to say that I've intervened personally. I said that we are not going to introduce a teacher's register for this cabinet period. By the way, when I said that, I knew that in the end the profession itself was the first move to do so. If the profession had developed criteria for joining the register and clarified the criteria for re-registration, it may sometimes happen that people who have fallen back in need, as in the care of the BIG, they would eventually end up with the ruler. It would then have to pass on the impact further through a general measure of governance, both in the Second and the First Chambers, and take responsibility for it. I found that to be irresponsible. All the feelings surrounding it were very diverse. They are not equally unambiguous here. It was sometimes just him continuing the discontent that was already there when the law was passed. By the way, both proposers have always been very consistent in how they have thought about this. For example, there were a lot of people in education themselves who did not change their minds when the law came into force officially. Of course, as a legislator, you always hope that it does, but sometimes it doesn't. There was a great deal of discontent about the way in which the Education Co-operation was organised and the people who were active there. By the way, I think they've stuck their necks out very far. They have not always been treated in a very nice way. But all this has happened and I said in December 2018, I say, out of my mind, that we really need to stop this. We're going to stop this cabinet period from actively picking up, which was also a clear signal in the direction of the field, but we're going to do two other things. First of all, we continue to offer the space to use the volunteer portfolio. Wherever we can, we're gonna promote that, too. There were also teachers who were just very enthusiastic. Can that be said here sometime? I admit it may have been a minority in the big picture, but they were there. They looked at care with an oblique eye. They saw that it took 15 years, I believe, before there was finally the bullet through the church. This is about the way in which the BIG was ultimately taken up by the profession itself. It has been made its own and now you can hardly imagine that it is not there. That is how it was made, but it took a very long time. There were teachers who said: "That's what we want in education, so we'll get to work in education as well. We are going to try to create such a situation, because we want to have control of ourselves; we want to be leading ourselves in the way we retrain and how we professionalise. We really want that in our own hands." Okay, at least on a voluntary basis with a portfolio. Of course, that is not yet a teacher's register, but it is very important to manage your own continuing training and the way in which you want to develop. So we have given them the choice: you can take a voluntary portfolio that has indeed done about 14,000 to 15,000 or you fall back on the situation as discussed with the proposers. In it there are skill files, with everything that goes with them, which are in the hands of your driver. So you're in charge of the one thing. That is not yet a register, but it is a clear step towards it. The other way around, you put everything you have in your driver's hands. That doesn't have to be wrong at all, because you can also fully trust them, and they do indeed have a duty to give hands and feet to them. But you can choose. So that was the one thing I did. The second thing I have done is that I am very active, with what is within my scope, after all, you have to be careful that the fingerprints of a ruler are just sitting there trying to stimulate that professional formation. I did that in an intrinsically moved way, because I was so convinced that it was important that it happened. But it had to come from the teachers themselves. I say the same to Mr Van Kesteren. Of course, I have had a lot to do with PO in action from the start. They were the first people I spoke to after I was sworn in as a minister. Even before the debate on the government statement was held, I met them on a rainy Wednesday evening in the dark somewhere in Utrecht. That all sounds very exciting, but it was so important to me that I looked them in the eye. I had to get the feeling: these are people who want to do the right thing. I had that conviction, but I also wanted to experience it in person, also for primary education, in order to support it wherever it could. Of course, that couldn't be done in everything. That's why we've had quite a few moments that may not have been very pleasant to each other. But I've supported them from the very beginning. The two great men of PO in action, I shall just mention them as Jan van de Ven and Thijs Roovers have finally been the ones who have been given the space and financial support from me to build up vocational group formation in primary education. That's what the Teachers collective has become. They've said goodbye to that by now. They have really seen themselves as quarter-minute makers, people who give the first impetus. But there is now a profession in primary education. There's one in the MBO. It's been there a long time. It also develops very well. The most difficult thing is the vo. There's been an initiative that broke down again. New attempts have been made in recent months. We are still working to further strengthen the vocational training system. This is mainly from the trade unions, but they have united themselves and are now trying to see if they can even do something for themselves in the Teachers' Collective. That was my commitment to this cabinet period. That is where we have taken enormous steps. But it was never the intention, after I said that at the end of 2018, to revive the teacher register in the years after that; in any case that was in the hands of the profession and I had said that I was not going to do so in this cabinet period. So if some people ask me if I can explain why it failed, then my answer is: yes, I can. That is because I said the following myself at the end of 2018. We are not going to go through with it now, but we are going to leave it in the law, because I believe that the right of professional formation should now be given priority. I also think that such a topic as the teacher deficit............................................................................................................................................................................................ What I hadn't anticipated was corona. I guess I wasn't the only one in there. That has, of course, been a huge obstacle to the development of many things. Afterwards it was fine that we had agreed so, because with corona again it had of course not worked out at all. But it's been a conscious choice. It has also been a conscious choice to leave it in the law. I will come back to the state-law debate on this later. I have something to say about that, too. But it has been a conscious choice to say: give room to professional formation and take a break. Then, in a new cabinet period, we can be judged whether we want to go through with this or not. Then you'll know a little more. Then it is up to a new cabinet and the new Chambers to judge. However, the two men on the left of me have made their own initiative proposal, which is their full right, which has been submitted in the meantime and is now creating a slightly different situation. That does not affect the starting position that I myself had in this and which I have been working on over the past few years in relation to the two parts I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u102	Thank you. I'm curious about the following. The Minister states that there has been a situation in which it was actually impossible and in which he himself intervened by saying: we are not going to do this anymore. If you reflect on your own actions, I wonder if there are things that you think are going to happen: I might have had to do more to eventually achieve more acceptance. You have indicated what you have done, but perhaps there are also things you yourself say: I should perhaps have taken a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u103	A man can always run faster than he might and should. If I look back myself and also look in the mirror at what happened here, I think it was a wise decision to say by the end of 2018: people, I am now clear. 'Cause I'd almost say it was pissing through. It actually only got bigger. So I thought it was important to say that we were really gonna put it in the fridge, or whatever metaphor you want to use. I have also asked Mr Rinnooy Kan, who I have just not mentioned, to serve us with his wisdom in how to deal with this. And indeed, he put the finger on the sore spot that the closing piece was the main thing. In principle I had already noticed that myself, but it was good to hear from such an eminence grise, from him, once again on paper and explained with words what the situation was like. He had also spoken with the education himself. That had become a rather intense gathering where all those emotions came up again. I think that's wise. What I did afterwards was to promote professional formation, but I have to do so with restraint. Because we cannot say to each other that we like the fact that in this very large sector, which is so important to our country and to which 2.5 million pupils are going, I am talking about the foundational education, the vocational training system had been so reluctant and, in fact, hardly developed. In the MBO that was the case, but in the p.o. And don't. Again, I have to be cautious, but I did support that. The two MPs from the House of Representatives know that I put my neck out for this, because it was not received in the House of Representatives by everyone who cheered that I was going to grant a subsidy, that I put these people in position, that I invited them to the table and that they could talk with them. The Teachers' Collective has been at the table for the entire period of corona and has spoken along. So I've given room for that, but I had to do it with restraint. Maybe I could have given an extra push in vo, but the fact that you know yourself is perhaps the most difficult form of education to achieve this. I come from there myself, not only as a student, but also as a teacher. So I can speak from my own experience, even if it's been a while. That's where it's really hard. It would have been nicer if it had been stronger there. And finally, I say to you through the President, it is the people who have formed that profession, whether they want and dare to take these steps. Because you can count on the moment that you speak positively about the teacher register, you get reactions to the social media. That's how loaded it is. But that also means for people in positions where they should actually be able to say things like that, or at least stimulate the discussion, that that is very difficult. If the conditions around it are constructed in such a way that the classes have to be reduced and the number of hours reduced, then we know that it will take a very long time. I think that is also an answer to your question: I myself do not think that such a law article should always remain in it if it is not activated. It's possible, and I'll explain later that happens a lot more often. But you will know that, because you get all the legislation through here, too. For me, the idea was that, in a new period of government, we could once again express our opinion and perhaps know more about how this profession has been formed and whether there is a prospect that this will succeed. That should be a calibration moment whether or not you should change the law. Then I could imagine that a next cabinet would file such a law itself. The initiators have already come up with this on their own initiative, which, once again, is their full right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u104	Maybe that's because the formation is taking a while. Otherwise, the new government would have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u105	It's been there a lot longer, I think since 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u106	Even faster, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u107	That was your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u108	No. I can imagine the Minister's reflection. We have had a debate here with his predecessor, who, in my words, said: we are going to do our utmost to get support, and so on and so forth. Apparently, this minister found in 2018 that he is not going to be. Understandably, fully entitled, afterwards we may say as a Chamber that we could have known that earlier, but okay, that's how things go. But then I don't understand why the Minister doesn't go through with it, that he doesn't say this isn't gonna be him, if we're gonna handle this carefully, then we just have to delete this part from the law. Why does the Minister insist on holding on to this, so much so that perhaps not so much a new cabinet, but the Chamber says: we want to delete it? Then why is he going to advise against that? Why are you so obstinate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u109	There are several reasons for this. One is that I have indeed come to the conclusion: it is not going to be because of the whole climate around it, which was almost so messed up, so to speak, that that was not a chance. I wanted to offer peace of mind, because I am very embracing the principle of a teacher register and that teachers themselves have the direction and can decide for themselves, whatever the law says, what the criteria are, also for re-registration, and I am very convinced that it would be very good if that were to be taken up. I also found that this type of profession had not yet been sufficiently developed. That's why I started investing in this profession. That's in the p.o. I'm allowed to say very well succeeded. It would be nice if even more teachers joined the teacher collective as a member, because there is still room for a leap. But that might have something to do with corona. It is now beginning to start again in the vo, and I sincerely hope that it will be possible for some time now. In the MBO it would be nice if it could develop even further, but it is already there. Then why change the law now, so delete that part, which puts aside the entire infrastructure, which has cost millions, and which also removes the legal space that exists to take it up if the profession finds it appropriate at the moment, which means that you have to start creating a new legal basis at the time they are there? It is also not a problem that there is a law article that has not yet entered into force, although I have said myself that at some point you have to ask yourself the question, how much longer we will be able to do so. But it happens all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u110	This isn't gonna change with a new cabinet. This is something that lives wide in the field. What indication does the Minister have that this will be better in the not too long term, in the coming period? The Minister uses the argument of all that money and infrastructure, but we are only talking about abolishing the compulsory teacher register. What indication does he have that it's gonna be different soon? If he doesn't have it, why doesn't he just say it out loud, okay, Room, I'm just following this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u111	If this bill is adopted and the legal provisions are deleted, then the whole basis will fall under everything that has already been built up, including in the framework of the voluntary portfolio. Even if there are only 14,000 or 15,000: I still think that's a decent club people. All of them, each for themselves, are worth the sight of them. The whole legal base, the whole infrastructure within it, is gone. One of the bright points in recent years was for me that the Teachers' Collective came and that the people who had been involved with PO in action put their necks out for that as well and explained the carpet to the board that is now there, which by the way is doing very well, with a lot of involvement. That has really been a bright spot for me. That there is now movement in the vo, idem. But it is not for me to decide when they are going to say 'now we are ready to work with the register'. We put that in their hands too, so there's just restraint there. But when you see that it doesn't come off the ground at all, for years, and the whole professional group formation, so to speak, dies silently, to take that word in the mouth, then it also stops. I would deeply regret it, because education deserves to be made up and directed by teachers about their own continuing training and everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u112	What I find a little complicated is that the Minister uses these elements as a kind of plea of "preserve the law, don't do it now," when I think you're putting money into it to stimulate group formation, that's possible. The Minister can simply develop a policy on that, he can just do that. I find it uncomfortable that we had a debate here not too long ago on fusion tests, where it was said at high and low levels 'I cannot solve a problem on Schiermonnikoog if you do not pass my law'. We said at that time that at least we were against it. Then, three months later, the Minister says: I have another solution. That's what makes me uncomfortable. I asked for con amore to work on solutions when this law is passed and I actually hear the Minister say 'no, no, I need that law'. I don't think that's convincing. I ask the Minister if there is clear resistance in the field and if the Chamber says 'we think we should stop the teacher register', not to put the heels in the sand, but simply to look constructively at how we can do it. We share the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u113	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u114	A few more questions have been asked in the sense of 'if this law is passed, how do we proceed with'. I shall, of course, deal with that. Of course we're thinking about that, too. But you should not make it clear to me that if a law allows a professional to take up his professionalism and everything that goes with it, and so one does not have to choose the administrative side, where it has to be done from within the board, that is the situation in which we are sitting and there is still movement when it comes to the formation of professional groups in the vo, I really regret it when the legal basis is taken out of the law. Let's say it's gonna work out in a short time, then we can start from scratch, plus everything's built up, including data management and the like. That has indeed cost a lot of money. Well, that's no different, you can say, that's gone. It's millions of dollars. When that is completely gone and something new has to be built in another place, you start again from the start. As a government, you are also at a greater distance from it, where we now see it as a kind of public task. That's why it was included in this law. However, those are the considerations that you must, of course, make. We have made a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u115	Let me begin by saying that I think the Minister's exhibition is very good. Clear and clear he indicates that in 2018 he decided to stop at least something that was not going to work at the time. He also just indicated himself: for the niceness of it, put "teacher register" on Twitter, then you don't know what happens to you. That resistance is so massive at the moment that I really wonder if we are helping a next cabinet by saying: let us leave the possibility open so that they may come to a different conclusion. Isn't it much wiser to say, as the two initiators have done,: okay, we're quitting the mandatory teacher register? The basis will then fall away, as the Minister just indicated. The legal basis falls away, but of course what lies ahead does not have to be thrown away. This can be used in other forms, because there are two or three other forms that are also used. Shouldn't we take the step now and say: okay, there's a difference of opinion whether or not to do it, but the massive counter-gas is so strong that we can now better choose a shared route, in which the profession itself, together with the board, takes control? That's instead of doing it upstairs through the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u116	In particular, on what you say as the last sentence, I say that this law and the provision that is now being deleted from it allow the profession to take it up. The only point is that it hasn't happened yet. I have just explained that, because of the start it went through and the fact that it was so contaminated, I myself made the choice at the end of 2018 not to do so in this cabinet period. I don't know what would have happened if I hadn't. I don't know if we'd have made it any further. Of course, that's all speculative. I also just indicated that corona was also joining. I think the odds that it wouldn't have worked out are pretty good. But it's been a conscious choice. The only thing the cabinet decided at that time is not to activate it and to offer some space and time to see if it can be a success. This initiative law actually goes through that by saying: no, we want to delete this provision now. That's ahead of us now. You have to make your choices in that. It's not the choice the cabinet had made. We would have liked to take some more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u117	I also understand this reasoning. But here's what I'm gonna ask the Minister. You mention the end of 2018. It's now the end of 2021. What progress has been made in three years, giving the Minister the hope that the next cabinet could make this a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u118	I just explained that. It gave us peace anyway, because everyone knew: we're not gonna do anything with it now. That was really necessary for a while. We've started working on the vocational training system. In the end, the sector itself must move. I really like what's in the p.o. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I don't think that's what happened. Let's hope it happens in the fox. And we've given room for the volunteer portfolio. About 14,000 to 15,000 teachers have made use of this. In addition, you could choose one or the other. That progress has been made. We must, of course, wait and see what happens in the future. There's been resistance and there's been a lot of calls. You say it's very massive. Of course, that is sometimes quite difficult to describe, because there are so many people. You yourself know that those who are opposed to something often show themselves to be more than those who are in favour of something, especially on a subject like this. Well, you can't really send for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u119	I have some of the same questions as my colleague in the SGP, so here too, cooperation between SGP and SP continues. I would like to ask the question in a different way, because the answer is not quite satisfactory. The minister just said that the idea was: "We leave it in the law. We leave the law in place, so that a next cabinet can reactivate it or resuscitate it." I'm going to use the imagery of resuscitation again. I think the Minister himself knows that this would not happen, even if we were to vote against this initiative proposal. Can the Minister go into the substance of what has just been said, among other things, by the initiators in the reply, but what has also been pointed out by several spokesmen? I am referring to the fact that this profession, which the Minister attaches so much importance to and which my group also attaches importance to, is hampered by the fact that it is so contaminated that you leave it hanging over the market. The Minister himself and then Mr Schalk referred to the reactions to the social media. They confirm it right, don't they? So my question is really simple: can the Minister once again argue why professional formation has helped to maintain this legislation? Or can the Minister see that it is precisely this professional group formation and new initiatives such as the Teachers' Collective that is burdening and interfering with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u120	It is precisely because the law has made provision for the profession itself to have recourse to that provision and because the profession may come up with criteria, including for re-registration, that it could also be an incentive for professional formation, such as: "We are dealing with this ourselves. We are also legally given the space to give our own professional formation in this way hands and feet and to make our own and to work out what would otherwise be in the hands of our employer. With all due respect to that employer, but here we can do it ourselves." So I think that's even very strong. I also understand that a professional group which is being developed is not going to do that right, because you are, so to speak, immediately taking the hardest subject that you can grab at. For example, we can see that they are very busy with professional standards. In fact, there is excellent cooperation, including with the employers. This is also one of the recommendations of Mrs Van Vroonhoven's report to move forward. So why, if that is just being developed in a good way, couldn't it be another step to do so? But that's just an assessment, a perception. I'd just like to give them some space. That is why I am also in favour of the advice we are giving here. If you absolutely don't believe that and don't trust it and think it's an obstacle, then maybe you'll come to a different point of view. That can happen sometimes; that is a pity, but sometimes that is our reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u121	In fact, the Minister keeps saying: why not, it could also strengthen the profession. But the reality is that a large part of the profession does not plumb this. Then the Minister says: I made the decision in 2018, actually quite one-sided. I've seen things aren't going well, I'm gonna step in, or it's gonna get worse. Then my question would be: if we were to be convinced by a majority here by the Minister's advice, and we leave this law intact, will it not go further? Then how does the Minister see the perseverance stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u122	I think the decision I made really gave it a rest. Because it was high, so it was also very nice that we did this. This has also provided scope, inter alia, for the vocational training which has taken place. And it has given room for other ways to work on the subject as well. I was also referring to how things went in the care sector. There it really took about fifteen years before they were finally there where they had the intention to come from the beginning and the profession made it their own. Moreover, the positions vis-à-vis employers are no different from what we are aiming for here in education, and I would also like to say to Mr Pijlman who asked a question about this, so that we simply have our own direction. Isn't that something you so desire, even for education? And of course you can say: we're going to make a fresh start. Some of you have asked for that, as I thought you did. A fresh start means it's out of the law now. At the moment there is room for it again, we might come up with another word, because this word may have gotten very infected too. Then we just have to make a legal basis again and when it comes to that fresh start we are at least losing a lot of extra time for something that is now just in the law and shouldn't really be a problem. It doesn't have to interfere with anyone if that provision just stays there so you can switch faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u123	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u124	I actually feel that the Minister agrees with us, or at least he is not entirely consistent. For he says: it has brought peace, my decision at the end of 2018. If that has brought peace, then the logical consequence of that thought is that if you go through it, the repeal of this law, of that teacher register, would have to bring even more and also more final peace. Otherwise, you're gonna leave it hanging over the market. The Minister himself also says: if it might then have to come up with a legislative proposal again, perhaps we should also use another name or set it up differently, because it has now become contaminated. That also confirms that if you want to make a fresh start, you have no choice but to get the provisions out of the law through this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u125	I just moved into the position of people I'm trying to get out of the law right now and indicated what would have to happen. This is without prejudice to the fact that, once again, I think it is wise to keep the provisions in the law, and when that moment has come, it gives the profession itself an opportunity to make active use of them, with also now maintaining the spaces that are now there, including for the voluntary portfolio. I will come back to that later, because with this amendment, the legal basis will disappear. Then it's gonna have to be picked up in a different way. That can be done in principle, but it has consequences. That is, again, also a price that I wonder why we would pay it with each other, if we could just take some time to give the piece you forgot, the developments in the profession, a chance. Anyway, that's a choice, a weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u126	It always comes down to the same thing. The Minister has done his utmost to encourage vocational training. He's taken some nice steps in that. As a result, something has happened: the Education Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u127	We just kissed him!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u128	I'm sorry, we just kissed him. There is now a Teachers' Collective in the p.o. But a lot has happened psychologically. Then I don't understand your consideration. What if we do not support this initiative? What impact does this have on the profession and on professional formation? I think that's gonna get hit again. Because communicatively you don't reach the average teacher with this register anymore. He sees it as a bureaucratic element, which sees it as imposed, which sees it as proof that the minister is not dealing with what we really need, he sees it as... so on and so on. I think, with your fine defence of everything that has happened and what should have happened, that you too have been helped to say: yes, we support this initiative, all calm and calm for a moment, we are going to start again. We'll talk about these instruments for a while. This helps the vocational education system. That is my firm conviction. If we say now that we are not going to do this, then the mistrust is going to be fed again. We have made mistakes with each other in this process as we have done in this legislative process. I can sympathise with a lot of your arguments, but I will make a different assessment. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u129	This is your fourth term now, Mr. Pijlman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u130	I find that disappointing, but I respect that, of course, if you make a different assessment. But you just gave yourself a number of qualifications about the teacher register, which it is imposed from above. I think it is up to us, me as a ruler, but perhaps also to you as a Member of Parliament, to argue under the law that nothing is being imposed here, but that there is only a legal basis that the profession can use. So we're going to have to take away some images with each other sometimes, images that have indeed arisen, which is incredibly annoying, because they cloud a lot. But we will also have to get rid of images of what is actually a sec in that law and what scope and possibilities there are for the profession itself. I think that might help. You sometimes need some time to let the emotions of the beginning ebb away and then pick it up. Mr. Chairman. I am making the transition to the law and the constitutional whole, which is not really possible here in the law. I heard Mr Bishop say that a law is in force or not. In the House of Representatives, Mr Van der Staaij, you will not be surprised, put his finger on that. It is not unusual in legislation that different ways of entry into force are sometimes chosen. You will undoubtedly be aware that the legislators are working with an indication of the rules. I think it's from the prime minister's office. Such an indication is a very important work, on the basis of which they should co-organise legislation. That designation contains a number of models for entry into force. They just used one of those models, like they're just in that clue. It is a model that is also often used. I understand that this happened 57 times last year by law and 46 times this year. There are thus a variety of laws which introduce provisions on entry into force in different ways. In my view, the initiators too, it was an amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij. I think he wrote that on the spot at the time, or he made a motion; I don't know exactly how it happened anymore, but I have an active memory of it, just to put it that way. Yeah, luckily, the memory's still working, though the years are starting to count. Less than two or three weeks ago, the Open Government Act was passed in this Chamber. There, too, are provisions which are undetermined when it comes to entry into force. This also depends on what progress is being made in the information system. We absolutely do not know whether that is going to take two, three, four or perhaps five years, but that too is part of legislation. Do we think that's desirable with each other? That is indeed a question that we can always ask each other and we can also face up to. I also indicated that, with regard to the provision now contained in this law, I had found it really appropriate to ask the question in the new cabinet period: is this ever going to fly again, yes or no? If the conclusion had been no, an own initiative from a new cabinet could also be an option. I should like to put it mildly, because of course I cannot say too much about what is going to happen later. So this is common. That was also necessary, because we put it in the hands of the teachers themselves, so the profession, which also needed to be further formed. Then you can't fill out a date because you don't know exactly when that's gonna happen. There have been expectations. These expectations have not been met, particularly because I myself intervened at the time and said: we are not going to do so now, at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u131	The Minister now refers to different models. I am not exactly familiar with this analysis and with the models that the Minister believes all exist. But I still wonder what kind of model this is. Is this the model where you say: we're filing a law, five years later nothing has been implemented, then we're going to see if it might still be implemented in another cabinet period and, if not, maybe we're going to pull the plug, but that's really up to my successor? Is that the model? The Minister can point to other examples, but let me speak for myself: I do not think that this is an attractive model.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u132	The model is that we have given the profession scope to use this article. When they make use of them, they are the ones who developed the criteria and who were able to develop the criteria for re-registration, because that was the point. In the end, this is offered to the person responsible: this is what we have done as a profession, also on the basis of the legal basis that was before. We have also agreed in the law that that is the moment when this is passed through an AMvB by the person responsible, both towards the Lower House and towards the Upper Chamber, with a veil, so that the Chambers can also express their opinion on this matter. But there is no time period in the sense of: that should be arranged in three or five years, so to speak, because otherwise... You can even make such agreements with each other when you are working on deadlines for introduction. There are also other deadlines for introduction which are very explicit: if this law enters into force... For education we have moments in the year, for example, a law enters into force on 1 August or 1 January. Then, after the law has been published in the Official Journal, it is very concrete. That way you have different entry into force. Again, here is one of the models that is used more often. It is of course a separate discussion whether you like it or not, but it is not unusual; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u133	For me, at the time, this model was not discussed in the debate. I did not have that debate at the time, but I have read it. In that sense, that is new. I also wonder whether what the Minister is saying is in line with the intention of the legislator at the time and of the minister's predecessor. If he had said in the debate 'we do not know when it will be introduced; that could be four years, five years, six years or seven years, because that depends on the formation of professional groups and we do not have it in hand', I honestly do not know how that had fallen into this house. In retrospect, the Minister can say: it was a particular model and that is normal. But the way things turned out is actually not normal in view of the intention of the legislative proposal at the time, namely the introduction of the teacher register.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u134	It is true that expectations have been expressed, although I have not read back the whole debate in the run-up to this debate. Some of you were there and may have an active memory of it. But with regard to expectations that were there, 'this can be further worked out in the next cabinet period and then further steps can be taken', I have already indicated how that went right in the first year, and that I have also intervened in that. So it was pretty soon clear that it would take some time. I communicated that to the House of Representatives at the time. I believe that we have discussed it briefly and supported this commitment. So everyone knew at the end of 2018, beginning of 2019, the letter was in my opinion from January, that we would at least not use it in this cabinet period and that we would move it in the slightly longer term. That is, once again, also in the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber simply communicated and discussed openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u135	I shall now, with your permission, go to Mr Schalk. Or do you have a very short third interruption, Mr. Van Apeldoorn? Because we need to close this deadline slowly. A brief remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u136	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. In my view, the Minister is actually saying: when it comes to implementation, no progress has been made, but a step backwards has been taken by the Minister himself, at the end of 2018. Then you can't help but conclude that the introduction of the teacher register failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u137	Then I'm going to fall back on my previous answers...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u138	Yeah, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u139	The moment you make a conscious choice not to do something for a certain time, and which is also supported by Parliament, because everyone thinks it is wise and we want to take a little more time for it, you can put the word "failed," but you can also say that it has been wise. Then the only question is, what are you gonna do after that period is over? And that's what I think we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u140	Let's talk about that point of the model. It is quite quick to look up; it is about the special entry into force of provisions. If you look that up, you can see that there are about six or seven examples of that in the law. However, it seems to me that such a special provision for entry into force is normally taken into account in the legislative process. In this case, an intervention was actually performed in 2018. I do not know whether that particular provision for entry into force will work in the same way. But perhaps the Minister can brief me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u141	We have also made the entry into force dependent on what the profession itself takes initiative. That remained in full force. The only thing that changed was that it was pretty soon clear that the expectation that some people might have had when dealing with the bill, namely that it might have been settled in one or two years, would not come true. That means there's just gonna be more time. But also in the Open Government Act, which you accepted in the vast majority two or three weeks ago, I believe that only SGP, Christian Union and CDA were not ahead of it, but the other parties do have provisions and articles of law which are really unclear when exactly they will be implemented. Perhaps that will happen soon; I do not know whether all kinds of expectations have been expressed. But that also depends on what happens in other places. You don't always have that in full control. Sometimes it is also in the direction of the First Chamber very neat to not include in a law all kinds of introduction moments, because it also exerts a certain pressure on the First Chamber as to how it intends to do the legal treatment. So it happens sometimes that a legal basis is still in place at a later date. So there are a lot of variants possible, but in the many years that you have been active here you may have had them all by. Then the voluntary portfolio. I myself was very pleased that the initiators themselves, also in the direction of your Chamber, have indicated that they think it is important that this should be preserved. In the Lower House that was not such a big topic. If this law is adopted, at least the legal basis for it will disappear, and the way in which we have built it up at the moment. It is in government hands; DUO is involved, for example. There is also a possibility to access personal data, so if you move you don't have to fill it out yourself but it is done automatically in a manner of speaking, or if you get a different name, for example, or whatever. In short, things like that are all falling away. It is indeed possible to organise it in a different way. In fact, that means that we say: we no longer see it as a public task, but we leave it to the market. I think that is also what the initiators in the note on the report say. You got that note this week. The word "market" is not in it. Maybe that's a little heavy on one of the proposers. But in fact it is said: let it be done by the market. You can do that in principle. It's not what the cabinet chooses. We would simply like to make it possible in this way. If the market is going to take over, another basis must be found to rebuild it, and then from private initiative. Then we also know that the GDPR is simply clear in "" that every teacher who is now registered will have to give permission to do so, because it is about personal data. If this direction is taken, it will also mean that this law cannot enter into force on 1 January. We're sure it won't work. We may need a little more time to at least give the teachers the space to do so. You're gonna need six months and maybe a little longer. But in any case, I do see that as an impoverishment, because I always liked the fact that teachers could choose to do so. They'll get a letter. They will be told that it is no longer possible in this way and that they will again be covered by the competence register and by everything their driver does, provided that there is not anything else to be arranged. But once again, there is no legal basis for this. Mr. Chairman. I will not mention everything that has happened in the past cabinet period with regard to professionalisation. But know that there is a strong investment in professionalisation. I say this in the direction of Mr Pijlman, but Mr Ganzevoort also asked for it. These are really huge amounts of money, for example from the performance box. It was already there from the previous cabinet and we have now carried it through. In the period from 2013 to 2020, you talk about almost 4 billion euros. I am not even talking about all kinds of other amounts that have also been made available for the own development budget of p.o. In the case of non-member countries, however, this is not the case with the United Kingdom, but the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, as well as the United Kingdom, which are affected by the collective agreement agreements. That's what happens in the MBO. In short, we're really on top of this. The inspection is also on top of the provisions relating to the competence files. I do recognize what Mr Bishop said about this. He noted that, especially at the time he was still in office in a school, it took some time for that to get a little tighter between the ears, not only of the drivers, but also in inspection supervision. But this is an important subject. It is, indeed, also a necessity. Contrary to what Mr Kwint said, HRM policy is not a valid requirement. I haven't. We are now working on a proposal for a strategic staff policy, and we are also making good agreements with the unions and with employers to ensure that this becomes just a tighter requirement. This means that the inspection can therefore more broadly monitor personnel policy rather than simply check, so to speak, and say: yes, they have the skills files in order. Because that is a little too thin; we all realize that, I think. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I've answered most of the questions that have been asked, maybe all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u142	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u143	Then I wish the honourable Members a great deal of wisdom in making a correct decision on this legislative proposal and the consequences it may have in the event of acceptance or non-acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u144	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had one unanswered question, but I thought: let me do it in my second term; that is better than in an interruption. First of all, congratulations to Mr Suharno on his maiden speech. It is nice to have another theologian among us, even though he is also other things; that only makes it even more beautiful. Thank you also to the defenders of the proposal. They are no longer initiators but defenders on behalf of the entire House of Representatives. Thanks also to the Minister. In any case, they have helped me to advise my group to support this proposal. The Minister has also made a great contribution to this, perhaps in spite of it. I have some reflections on the debate. The intentions are not very far apart, even today, but the assessment of the feasibility of CPR. I understood from Mrs De Blécourt that the VVD is still hoping for new facts about the willingness of teachers, but for me that is a little hopeful thinking, or as it is called: policy-based evidence instead of evidence-based policy. In my opinion, in wishing that it should be for, for and by teachers, it rubs between the two defenders. Mr Bishop particularly stressed the route of the competent authority and Mr Kwint especially the route of the teachers. Those are two very different approaches and precisely the competent authority... I do understand the position of the SGP a bit, but that is not "from, for and by the teachers," but is about another localization of authority. Anyway, I'll let you sand it. Together they defend the breadth of the House of Representatives and the proposal, and that is what this is about. I am not convinced by the constitutional argument, not as an argument against it, but also as an argument for it. As far as I am concerned, the model entry into force was not the problem at all. The discussion is what you do when the introduction goes out of the picture. Not if it comes later, but if it just goes out of the picture. That is why I believe that the Minister should support this initiative proposal, including the reflection on the past. The rest of the law will work. Good. The introduction was not possible at that time. Well seen, but there is no prospect of support in the future and that strengthens our support for the proposal to abolish it. The framework conditions remain an important problem in education. My big question that was still open to the Minister was to cooperate in securing the portfolio and to propose solutions instead of lions and bears that would be there if we were to adopt this law now. My question to the Minister is: help it and settle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Suharno on his beautiful maiden speech. I must also correct Mr Kwint for the Acts. We are members of the same group, and I am pleased to say that we are not members of the same group, although Mr Kwint is very welcome here as a senator. Maybe he should buy a jacket, but I don't know. There may be differences of opinion. Thank you to the initiators and the Minister for reply. It is clear, as it has been said many times, that we agree with the initiators that the teacher register cannot be successfully resuscitated and should therefore not remain above the market. We agree with the initiators. It is precisely when new initiatives are being launched, such as the Teachers' Collective, that I say to Mr De Blécourt: the teacher register is infected. Nevertheless, the Minister somehow thinks that it has not become clear to us why it could still be disinfected in a new cabinet period. We think that if the minister is consistent in his own reasoning and advice, he should actually say: we have created peace at the end of 2018; if we want to stay calm now and avoid new unrest, then we really need to take the teacher register out of the law. Let's talk about the purity of state law. Apart from state law, I also agree with Mr Ganzevoort: this was simply never the intention. It is one thing to say: it is introduced in steps, but if you have not taken a step forward after four and a half years and only take a step backwards, and if you have no idea of new steps forward, then you just have to draw your conclusions. I repeat that my opinion will be for my group to vote in favour of this very useful legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u148	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Pijlman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, congratulations again for your reflective maiden speech, Mr. Suharno. That tastes like more. Good. Thank you. We all agree that vocational training in education is very important. I think we also agree that the Minister has taken very good steps in this period. The formation of the Teachers' Collective is extremely positive, but the Minister also says that there is still a great deal to be done. I would say: let these kinds of initiatives do their job themselves. Let us come from below to new form of opinion. Everyone's ready for that. Give them that time, too. I spoke in the first period of time about the adequacy requirements. I find it extremely pleasing that the Minister wishes to make strategic policy on education a necessity. That is a very good initiative. That is also what we can do on the government side to emphasise once again how important a well-educated teacher is to the classroom. Continuing training is also incredibly important. In conclusion, D66 was already against the register at the time. We are in favour of strengthening the profession, but we believe that the current teacher register, as it stands now, is psychologically no longer the right instrument, even if there is a lot to be said about it, no matter what the Minister has tried. I will therefore advise the group to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u150	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's time for some reflection. I congratulate Mr Suharno on his maiden speech, which I hope will make an important contribution to promoting dualism in politics. Thanks to the initiator and thanks to the Minister for his commitment to gain support in the field of education policy or legislation. It is about support that is embraced by the educational field, especially the male and female for the classroom, and service to the self-development of individual teachers. What are the criteria for the teacher portfolio, or the teacher register? Is that the level of post- and further training, or also the degree of diversity of skills that the teacher has acquired, especially during his working life in the classroom? In order to find out, direct communication with the workplace is essential. The fact that a large majority of the workplace has not or hardly been represented is evident, as witnessed by the emergence of the organizations I mentioned in my first term. These are representative movements from, for and through the educational world that have proven their legitimacy and have a right to speak. The question put by the PVV Group to the Minister was about this. Therefore, after answering this question, the PVV Group hopes that it will be the intention of this minister, and above all his successor, to try to involve such movements with a lot of support from the educational field in the development of education policy or legislation. At least if we want this to be organised by the profession, as the initiators have rightly pointed out. The main prerequisite for gaining support for education policies and legislation is in particular support. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u152	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mrs De Blécourt has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u153	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Suharno. Let me begin with what Mr Bishop said. He said I'd be hopeful because 14,000 teachers have entered the teacher register, but there are many times more teachers. Now I'm going to repeat literally what I asked for. That is something completely different. I asked: did the VVD group understand correctly that more than 14,000 registered teachers would be deprived of the opportunity to keep up with their professionalisation in the teacher portfolio itself? I understand from the Minister that it is. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group considers it important to maintain the quality of teachers. The VVD Group does not see the constitutional need to delete the teacher register and considers it premature at least. The VVD Group believes that there is no top-down, because it still needs to come from the teachers themselves to revive the law. The Minister's replies further strengthened the VVD Group's vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u154	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mr Suharno on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u155	First of all, thank you for all the congratulations. I am glad that "state law purity" is not a test criterion for the Supreme Court. That would be a pretty coarse dust comb, wouldn't it? I can well follow the Minister's explanation that a sensible decision has been taken here not to do so yet. I actually think the proposers agree with that. At the heart of the problem is the issue of acceptance, I think. Everyone here agrees on that. There have been some tough words about it. Even the term "sick" has fallen. That is why the CDA Group is considering voting in favour of this bill, but there is one question that remains with me. It may no longer be relevant in the context of this proposal, but perhaps in the context of a subsequent teacher register or whatever name it might have. You're gonna need a stick behind the door somewhere. Then you can think of a stick behind the door from above. Of course, we have an inspection. All kinds of other quality tests are being carried out. But I think of the stick behind the door from the bottom. Just when teachers are under all kinds of pressure and there is a shortage of teachers, you also have to have the stick behind the door as a teacher in front of the school management, for example, to say: yes, but I want to take that course and I also want to have the space to do so. That's exactly what a register can do to help. I'm speaking from experience in law. In the medical world, too, this register plays an important role in practice, precisely in terms of strengthening the desire for professional training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u156	Thank you, Mr. Suharno. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention two more elements in my brief reflection in the second term. First of all, we are talking about the special provisions for entry into force. I have already discussed this briefly with the Minister. I have indicated that it can be done in a number of ways. I just said it was seven, but it turns out it's eight. I apologize for that huge omission. The law we are talking about did not actually have an indefinite entry into force, but a concrete timetable for its introduction. They didn't make it. So that is a slightly different situation than when you set an indefinite timetable in a law, so to speak. This is perhaps just a moment before the constitutional part of our discussion. For me, this is crystal clear, in my opinion, and that is no question to anyone that the Minister has worked very hard to get this profession going. With me there is no trace of any doubt. But I am a little concerned about the fact that the reluctance that has now arisen around the teacher register could cause all his work to fail when it is transferred to a next minister. We do not yet know if that is Minister Slob again. As far as I'm concerned, it's not about that right now. It then has to take over the stick and may then run into a huge, massive amount of counter-gas. Then I think: is it not the time to look at what we have proposed to the defenders of the law, namely the ownership, of, before and through, linked to the soundness requirements and the conditions of funding? The Minister therefore has the opportunity to provide existing robustness requirements with detailed rules and to find some sort of balance. Then you will indeed ensure that competent authority and teachers jointly seek the best possible further development of that profession. That would be my last question. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u158	Thanks to Mr. Schalk. I call Mrs Fiers of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the initiators and the Minister for a comprehensive answer to all the questions. I believe that everyone here agrees on the importance of strengthening the profession. So there is no discussion about that. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that the teacher register has become a major step-in-the-way. In the debate I am not convinced of the Minister's arguments that a serious CPR effort is still possible. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of the proposal and then, with fresh energy, call on everyone to ensure that this beautiful profession is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u160	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Mr. Bishop, Mr. Kwint, Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u161	Can we have five minutes of suspension? Then we can tune in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u162	Five minutes. Then I'll suspend until 5:46 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u163	I give the floor to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u164	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I thank the senators for the meaningful questions and the comments. I thank the Minister for the response to the answers. We've just tuned in so we don't have any duplications. I should like briefly to mention professional development and what is related to it, and the introduction. Mr Kwint will briefly comment on the portfolio. I would like to underline something. In such a debate that is often more or less at the sharpest of the cuts, you tend to get the idea that you are very diametrically opposed to each other. That is not the case. We all support the need and the desirability of continuing professional development. There's no question about that. There is a difference of opinion about how you could best structure or facilitate that or whatever. An attempt has been made within the Law teachers. We can talk long and broad about this, but we do disagree on that point. That attempt just failed fatally. There was an introduction path and it should have taken place around this time. That did not happen, and that means, in our opinion, that you cannot proceed with the same law. You need to make a fresh start. There are differences of opinion on that. Therefore, the implementation process of this law cannot be compared with the Open Government Act, for example, where there are other provisions. That is another variant of entry into force, let me just say. There is a sense of legal certainty here. Mr. Chairman. Those are the points I wanted to mention. The absence of the introduction, the implementation means that you need to take a more far-reaching measure here, and that is what our own initiative proposal provides for. Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that in the second instance, with thanks for your kindness and the input of all those present here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u165	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for all the questions. Thank you for all the announcements about what is to be taken to the political groups. That gives the citizen courage. I had a point or two left. I would like to underline what Mr Bishop says, that there is very broad agreement on the intentions, but that the route along which we come to those intentions is somewhat different here and there. One point that is an example of this is the question of what would happen to a voluntary portfolio when this law is passed. We firmly believe that it is possible to continue such a voluntary portfolio. Where the Minister says 'then there must be a market party that takes over', we think that a party from education can simply take care of that too. In addition to this, and I shall leave it at that, it might perhaps also be a sign of acceptance of the current register if it does not even succeed in finding someone who would like to take on board the voluntary continuation of that register, the voluntary portfolio. We're not so negative about that. We believe that it must be possible to find a form in which this remains available to those teachers who wish to have it. But once again, if that does not work, then the support for the current register is even less than even we, as proposers, had imagined. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u168	Mr. Chairman. I do not think there have been any real questions to me, but there have been some orientations if this bill gets a majority on how to deal with the portfolio. Mr Schalk also indicated how there could be an interaction between the competent authority and the teachers on the one hand, and how they could work together, also with regard to the tasks they face in terms of professionalisation and everything related to it. Mr Van Kesteren pointed out that it is important that you involve parties, also from the basis, in policy development. To begin with: this is how I have worked over the past few years: very intensive, especially in the corona time, with a huge frequency. People used to ask me, "Why do you do that to so many people?" It is indeed a lot of parties, but I found it very important myself to be able to take the involvement of them and their insights into the decisions we had to make, so that eventually, with a difference in responsibility, you also try to land together in the same place. Fortunately, that has also happened many times. In short, that is always the way of working. It's not like anyone who raises their finger can go straight to a table. It is also logical, of course, that you make an assessment of the contributions that can be made. Then the size really doesn't have to be that big, because the way the Teachers' collective eventually developed... At some point that got big, but that started out very small and got bigger. With their insights and their input, they can make very good contributions that we can therefore involve in our decision-making. It is therefore very important to always be focused on this. I'm assuming that whoever's in this place and this position will do the same. What to do when this law is passed? It goes without saying that we will wait for the vote. That's the way it's supposed to be. Then, of course, I will return to the cabinet. We will also have to continue to guide the law at some point, so that it will eventually get a publication in the Official Journal, but all the assignments resulting from it will of course be for a subsequent cabinet. That goes without saying. That is also the way the cabinet is working at the moment, but it is clear what your Chamber is thinking about with regard to some of these aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u169	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-eerstekamer-6.u170	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. We have now come to the end of the meeting. I would like to thank all the members, the MPs Bisschop and Kwint, the minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
