ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the Tax Plan Package 2022 (35927 to 35932). It's time! We also deal with the Anti-Comparatives Act when applying business principle (35933) and the Bill Amendment of the Law on Reduction of Pays Tax and Premium for People's Insurance and the Income Tax Act 2001 repealing the Job-related Investment Discount (35873). You all know that! I am already impressed by the fact that there are people in the room who know all this. A warm word of welcome, starting with the two State Secretarys of Finance, whom we can welcome to the tax plan as usual. Thank you for joining us. Also a special word of welcome to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is with us today because she was previously absent from the WHO. As a result, Members of Parliament may wish to comment on matters relating to residence. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will listen to this with interest. If you formulate it properly, you will also receive answers to your questions tomorrow, but that is entirely up to you. I'm warning you all. That was all the obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u2	We have 12 speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Edgar Mulder of the Party for Freedom, who has a total of twenty minutes' speaking time. But how many of those will he use in the first term? Five, call the hall. I call Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u3	The debates on the tax plan are quite technical and often boring every year. At least since I got here, they've never been funny. This also applies to more debates in the Finance Committee. But now it's getting serious because of the extravagant scandal that the debates have also become gloomy and obnoxious, with the sad low point being the children placed out of the house. Mr. Chairman. It was quite right for the Minister for Legal Protection to come forward with a text and explanation during the legislative consultation, but the responsibility of course lies with D66. The D66 Secretary of State is responsible for the surcharges. Under a D66 Secretary of State, the problems have not been taken seriously for years. Under a D66 Secretary of State, memos were not archived. Reports were rewritten under a D66 Secretary of State. This State Secretary is therefore responsible for the consequences of the removal. Then again the coldness of this cabinet turns out, because in response we got: yes, there are children placed out of the house, but that never happens just because of the money. They said: yes, it's very traumatic for a child, but sometimes it's better off. We heard: yes, there seems to be over-representation of removal from the victims, but that cannot be established without a thorough investigation. This Chamber has no message at all and the parents have no message about it either. That investigation could have been here a long time ago. The CBS published the figures on 18 October. That was four weeks ago. Of course, the investigation went ahead before that, so it wasn't a surprise for the Secretary of State, but for this Chamber of course it was. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State what steps she has taken so that the parents will soon be able to put their children back in their arms again. Mr. Chairman. The surcharge scandal has enormous consequences for the victims, but also affects the entire Dutch society. Trust in the government is falling by the month. It's a steep line down, and that's understandable, because that's what you get when you're a government picking up civilians for years and taking money. That's what happens when you wrongly label people as a fraud. That's what you get when the Supreme Court supports these wrong practices. That's what happens when the IRS keeps hundreds of blacklists about hundreds of thousands of civilians. That is what you get when you talk about combating tax avoidance, but meanwhile you have a tax-dodged finance minister and a cheating country lawyer. Mr. Chairman. If you see and hear all that as a citizen, then it is not weird that only 30% of the population have faith in this government. Please note: you might think that I listed many years of wrongdoing in the Netherlands, but nothing is less true. I could have made the list even longer, and this all just played this year, in 2021. Rutte has ruined so much. It's not just the lying, it's total concrete rot. If what has happened to citizens' confidence in the government also happens to tax morals in the Netherlands, then we have an immense problem. Like I said, it doesn't cheer you up. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the laws of the Tax Plan, starting with the housing market. It's a big mess. That mess has only gotten bigger and bigger in recent years. Let us be honest: for the responsible D66 minister, the housing market has never really been a priority. We see the consequences every day. You want to buy a place or rent it, forget it. There's a shortage of 300,000 homes. The properties that are still available are not affordable for an average family. More supply, lower prices: we need that. How bizarre is it then that the Netherlands as the only country in the world has a special tax on social housing: the landlord's tax. This is a tax at the expense of affordability and of new construction. The Landlord's tax was paid by EUR 12.5 billion from 2013 onwards. With that money, we could have built houses. With that money, we could have allowed tenants to pay a lower price. The reduction in the landlord's tax proposed now is far from enough. That's 831 million. That's nice, but just because of the rising World War II, that's another 400 million. The only right solution is to get rid of the landlord's tax on landlord's landlord's landlord's tax. This cabinet is selectively outgoing. It is often said here: just spend 6.8 billion extra on climate madness they all find normal and should be able to; but the landlord levy can't be abolished, because they are missionary. I wonder what we'll hear next week. It is in any case impossible to explain to all those tenants and to those looking for a place to live. Then we come to the law for distressing cases. That's a bad and unfinished bill. There are no definitions, no amounts of compensation, no time limits within which a person must be compensated. This law feels way too much like some kind of government pass. The PVV does not want to surrender the controlling power of the Chamber, just because that law has a sympathetic name. Frankly, we simply have too little confidence in this cabinet, too little confidence that it will be okay by itself. Too much has happened for that. We are also concerned about the current reports on the settlement. Parents' reports on the Commission's statements on actual damage which raise doubts about the plausibility and human measure promised by the Secretary of State. Because no matter how you explain this, this Secretary of State, this government, is against appearances. We in the Chamber must simply be very careful in this process, because the parents have been deceived so many times. The PVV therefore asks the Secretary of State to either work out the law in a concrete law or withdraw the law for the time being. Box 3, the most neglected child of this Tax Plan, the child of File Letter. With the exception of a revision of the method of calculation, very little happened for a long time, but suddenly there was action in the committee debate on Taxation on 30 June. The Secretary of State informs us that there is work in the machinery room of Finance on taxation based on actual returns. The effect will soon come to the Chamber. The PVV looks forward to the proposal. But even if we finally have a proposal, the problems are not over. In fact, the problems will probably only really start, because there are now several statements, conclusions, from which you can conclude that the current situation is unsustainable. The conclusion is that the whole box 3 tax was not justified and is not justified. Mr. Chairman. My question is therefore: what will the Secretary of State do if the opinions are immediately taken over by the Supreme Court and if the entire levy at system level is indeed contrary to the right to property? This brings us to the next question, which was also the question of the PVV during the committee debate on 30 July, or citizens who have paid too much over the past year will be compensated retroactively. The question is: does the State have to pay back all box 3 charges? What amount would we be talking about in total? I'd like a comment on whether that's been considered in the engine room as well. Then we still have the rise and demise of the BIK, the Job-related Investment Discount. That was the big proposal of last year's Tax Plan. If amateurism is a proper title somewhere, it's here. If this law is about to be repealed, then the BIK has only been allowed to see the light for eight days. To quote a colleague in the legislative consultation: let us at least make sure that this BIK is properly buried on Thursday during the votes. Of course, this BIK has also rightly failed. It's a vulgar VVD boyfriend law. The BIK also failed because last year the law had to be rushed through under pressure with the previous Tax Plan. We didn't have time to quietly read and discuss the law. It had to happen very quickly from the four coalition parties. Mr. Chairman. You see that all the time, in general. If citizens are in trouble, whether they are citizens in Groningen or the parents of the premium affair, then it takes years and years for a solution to be found. Then everything is difficult and heavy considerations are made between care and speed. At least that's what we're told. Files must be made, evidence must be provided and everything is going very slowly. But if tax gifts can be handed out to friends, then the legislation is suddenly à la Speedy Gonzales. Then it can happen very quickly and suddenly it is of the utmost importance that money is given the same year, because commitment is a commitment. Well, then, Mr. Chairman. Well, then. Anyway, the desperate search for a project for that big bag with a total of 4 billion euros from the BIK is as it is well completed now. What was first known as "abolition of dividend tax," changed to "reduction of corporate tax," and went on to be called "BIK" last year. There was then a small, short diversion towards lowering the AWf premiums, but eventually what was left of the BIK money was used as a bribe during the APB. It's possible. Then tax avoidance. We've been talking about dividend stripes for a long time, the CumEx and the CumCumfiles. But we have also talked in general, Mr. Van Raan too, about the money passed through letterbox companies. And if I'm right, there's been a commitment about where that money ends up. I hope that we will have that effect soon and that we will be able to discuss it separately. I would also like to talk today about excise duties in the context of tax avoidance. I calculated during the legislative consultation that the State alone is missing EUR 1.23 billion in excise duties and VAT on tobacco. The Secretary of State would come up with his own calculation. I got it on Friday. It's going to be 525 million. Whether the figures of the tobacco industry itself are correct or those of picking up packages or those of the Secretary of State on Friday, it is all about huge sums of money. The PVV thinks it is simply a shame that we continue to bake the German and Belgian state treasury. This applies not only to cigarettes, but also to petrol. The Netherlands now has the highest petrol price in the world, so it pays to go to gas abroad. If you are still in Belgium or Germany to refuel and buy cigarettes, then of course you might as well do your other taxes there. Tax avoidance in optima forma! The PVV would like to investigate how much tax the Netherlands misses due to spillover effects abroad and the financial consequences for the Dutch border entrepreneur. The question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he wishes to provide this Chamber with relevant figures annually. I'm hoping for a commitment. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there are not just bad proposals in this Tax Plan. The PVV will also vote in favour of a number of parts. But one of the biggest drawbacks remains that this is again not a tax plan for the common man. But the common Dutchman pays for everything. Everything we do here is ultimately paid for by that Dutchman. And he's been burping backwards for many years. Everything has become more expensive and it can often only live or die. How nice would it be if there was a tax plan in which he would get a lot of compensation? But also in 2022 he only gets hit. The increase in purchasing power has already fluctuated around 0% and that was before the bizarre increase in the energy bill that people are about to receive. Families have to pay hundreds, sometimes thousands, of euros more. Energy is a primary need for life. Then why should the government charge the primary living need with a maximum of double taxation, energy tax and ODE, and also with the high VAT rate? It's almost criminal, but at least outrageous. And the water pump guys don't have any problem with that. They live from subsidy to grant and get everything, but Jan with the hat can pay. What is this government going to do to compensate people who burn on gas? You may not be able to imagine that, but a lot of people just burn on gas. Mr President, concluding. I really hope this is the last Tax Plan of these State Secretarys. It's time for Wilders I.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u4	Thank you. Until then, we are going to listen to Mr Aartsen from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a personal note. Today I am replacing my colleague, Mr Idsinga, who unfortunately cannot be present at this debate. Mr Mulder said that the debates of the Finance Committee were boring and technical. I must say that I cannot completely deny this, after a weekend of reading everything, but I think his remark was justified. If you're going to read about the child allowance affair, and last weekend I've been rereading all the details again during the preparation......that misery, the stories, the whole timeline, from front to back......the chills will run over your back. I'd like to have said that in person here. It keeps reading like it's some kind of nasty thriller, where you think about every bullet every few sentences: ah, had that one and that one only done this, or if this and this had happened, we could have avoided a lot of things. That's a bit of the nasty side of what I was able to read last weekend, if you take all the details again. It is also a cold fact that, unfortunately, we cannot do the things that happened at the time, no matter how much many of us would have liked it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u6	Thank you for sharing this with the VVD colleague. I suddenly had to think about what Mr Dijkhoff said, about perhaps having more boring debates in this house. You referred to the opening of the PVV colleague. I thought it might be a good thing to say that, because this whole supplementing affair, which we are all talking about here and which we are talking about today, is also because we and the cabinet have not done that work with these boring laws well in the past. I was wondering if you would share a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u7	I think Mr Maatoug is certainly right about that. Once again, when you read that timeline, every time the feeling is: if only this or that happened. I think the core is a bit of care. Yesterday we discussed the law of the Secretary of State at the procedural meeting. Then you see that balance again. That was another eye-opener for me about that dilemma. On the one hand, you want to do the right thing quickly. I think everyone has this intention to solve things quickly or to fight for each other. On the other hand, care is one of the lessons; politically boring, technically speaking. Let us think twice when it comes to certain laws and, above all, look at the feasibility in practice. Those are things that certainly play too. I will say a little bit more about it when it comes to implementation. I would like to emphasise here that we can do three things: three priorities. Make sure people don't sink further down the well or get into any more trouble. Make sure people are quickly, decently and well compensated. And finally, of course, make sure that people get their files handled and settled properly. I think things should be done in that order. So let me start with priority number one: prevent people from getting further down in those problems. With the freezing of public and private debts, I believe that a good step has been taken, but it does not mean that we are already here. It would be really good if people were to be helped and even protected by the government instead of having to go to court. We have also seen these examples come along. In my opinion, municipalities play an important role in this. Municipalities are often close to people. The numbers are good for most municipalities. They can also see what else is going on in people's lives. However, we do receive a number of sounds that this is pretty tough. Let's just say that. Here you can see again that the difference between the Hague drawing table and practice is revenged. I would like to go through a number of bottlenecks. I am curious about the reaction of the cabinet to that. Is it true, for example, that municipalities can only contact the disabled once? Is it true that in one conversation they have to gain the trust of these people and that they are no longer able to contact them, that they have to wait for someone to contact them themselves? I am curious to hear the government's reaction to this. Is it true that the exchange of data between the Tax Administration and the municipalities through the GDPR is very difficult? I am also curious to see which data and which data should not be exchanged between the Tax Administration and the municipalities. Does a special arrangement already apply to this? I can imagine governments saying about this: this is so exceptional; let's settle this a little well and don't bother people with it. We hear a lot of frustration about the fact that in practice there are many personnel changes at the UHT, that many people have to read over and over on the same file. Then there will be unnecessary delay. What about the lead times of the personnel changes at the UHT? How many business managers are on average per case? Is it true that there is hardly any decision-making power, for example a little lower in the organisation? We hear signals about a front office and a back office, that one is only competent to be in touch and the other is only competent to make decisions. Then people have to wait endlessly while the file goes back and forth. Is this the most practical way to help people quickly? Mr. Chairman. Do people who have been formally designated as victims receive a formal letter to confirm this? Or does this just happen over the phone? And one final question: what happens to people who receive €30,000, the Catshuis scheme, but who themselves proactively pay off debts, which have already been frozen, out of fear of creditors? How are these people helped? Of course, all praise to the individual staff in the Tax Administration and the services that are working hard on this, but I think it is also my job as a representative of the people, our job as a representative of the people, to ask for this kind of implementation that is not working very well. The second and third priority I mentioned is to quickly compensate for the damage suffered and then to deal with people's complex files. What about the speed of this compensation? How is it handled with the new cases that are still reporting every week? What about the cooperation between CWS, UHT and the IRS? In particular, the time taken to deal with the matter in good time is still too long. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to mention a number of parts of the Tax Plan. Our country faces quite a few major challenges in the coming years. We've talked about it before. Think of the aftermath of the corona crisis and, above all, its recovery for many entrepreneurs and families. Think of the housing market that's locked up, people who can't find a home or get stuck where they are. Think of the climate problem, which we would like to solve in a sensible, therefore affordable and feasible way, so that we can pass the earth on to our children properly and cleanly. And of course all this in the light of the groups that are also important for the VVD: the middle class and SMEs. The point is that they can also take a step forward in the coming period. But honesty commands us to say that these major, major issues, these major, major problems, require a broad plan. All these issues cannot be solved simply by means of one measure, one motion or one amendment. For that we really need a broader plan as far as I am concerned. That, however political that may sound, is, of course, a coalition agreement with new policies, in which the financial considerations for the coming years are also made. After all, every euro can only be spent once. However, this Tax Plan is a good step forward in our view, despite the outgoing status of the cabinet. It is certainly not the master plan that will make all the problems like snow disappear for the sun, but it is an improvement for the problems I mentioned. Through constructive cooperation with other parties, the General Political Reviews also managed to take a step on the housing market and on the energy bill for SMEs and for normal families, in particular by 2022. We would therefore like to continue this constructive cooperation in the broad sense. I do have some specific questions about the Tax Plan. Let me start with a point on which we, as a VVD, have often been concerned, and that is the taxation of savings: the capital return tax in box 3. Because of many factors, this is starting to be a rather nasty situation. Savers have to do with a 0% savings rate. In fact, in some cases there is a negative interest rate. Inflation is shooting up pretty fast, which simply makes savings less valuable. That is what the Tax Administration then comes up with with a tax. So these people are being burdened more heavily. Let that get to you. Those people are burdened more heavily, precisely because they are sparing, because they say: I would like to have that money that I have saved all my life as a bonus for my old age. Think also of the middlemen who have sold their business, who really only see this as their retirement, and who have to pick up a little money every month to get through every month. So these people are not waiting for all kinds of risky investments or all kinds of other financial adventures. They simply want to leave their hard-earned savings in their accounts. Above all, they do not want to see it get any less, not at all because of the tax authorities. That's happening right now. As far as we are concerned, then, we must actually move towards a system of real return, the taxation of real returns on savings. The VVD has found this for a while and we also see court rulings pointing in this direction. Can the Secretary of State indicate when we are actually going to raise returns for savers? A contour note has now been announced, which is about to come our way. I am very curious when we can expect them to be specific. And can the Secretary of State give some reflection on what is in it and in what direction he thinks? This is not a new topic. This should not be a new theme for the Secretary of State. I can't wait to see what direction he's thinking. The Secretary of State has indicated that this will be possible by 2025 at the earliest. So my question is almost: why can't it be done sooner? We've been talking about this for a long time. It's not like we started thinking about this subject yesterday, is it? Finally. Mr Mulder also said something about it, but how does the Secretary of State intend to deal with it if there is a court ruling which also requires retroactive repair? What scenarios are there? Mr. Chairman. As a VVD, we are pleased that the cabinet makes it possible for entrepreneurs to co-owner their employees of their company. Now it's going to be a big burden. Start-up tech entrepreneurs often do not have money for substantial salaries, but can in this way commit talent to their business. This way they can compete with other start-ups. It is also a great opportunity for SMEs to connect employees to their business, by making them co-owners and therefore also co-entrepreneurship. As far as we are concerned, that is a good development. That is precisely why we believe that this legislative proposal is still a little bit of a limited step, because only stock options are dealt with here, but not matters such as shares themselves or the way in which we dealt with them or the way in which they work with certificates. Is this the end of this discussion for the cabinet? Or is it a starting point for this discussion? Compared to other countries, co-ownership, co-entrepreneurship and employee participation in the Netherlands can really gain strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u8	The whole idea of the bill is that options are being issued and you cannot exercise those options immediately. In the case of shares, that's different. At the moment when a company provides shares to its employees or directors, the question is whether that should be the main priority of the Netherlands at the moment, but if you can differ on that, then you don't have the whole problem that you can't trade that day. Because you can just put it up for sale. This whole bill is intended precisely for small businesses that can only issue options, because they do not yet have capital. Does the VVD now propose to introduce a new tax facility to give CEOs of large companies cheap shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u9	No, I was just sketching a different direction of thought. That is why I specifically mention the issue of co-entrepreneurship and co-ownership. These are ideas that relate to, for example, SMEs. They say, "I have a production company. In it I have two good co-workers working for men. Financially, it's hard to get that right. We would like to involve these people in the well-being of the company, so we would like these people to become co-owners and co-entrepreneurs of the company." That is what wonderful ideas are for when it comes to participation in a company, without it automatically meaning that someone is actually on the buttons. It is therefore about the link with the beautiful SME. There are some wonderful examples of this in Limburg and Brabant, among others; I have talked about this with people there. They say that they would like to do so on a small scale, in particular to have a good relationship between company and employer on the one hand and employees on the other. Then we're not talking about huge amounts of money, but they're saying that it's getting a little complicated, because then I have to go to a notary or I have to set up a foundation and then you have some entries and exits and stuff like that. So you can actually see, as Mr Omtzigt says, that very large companies can afford to offer those kinds of packages, while the small middle business says: I would very much like to, but it is so complex and expensive in the Netherlands. In this respect, there are still good examples to be found in Australia, America or Great Britain. They have really nice examples of how to get a little more involvement from employees within your company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u10	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u11	The President says 'clear', but it is not quite clear to me yet. I'm sure that's up to me, Mr. Chairman. What does the VVD propose here? At the moment you can pay someone €100 extra salary. If he falls in the highest pay grade, because you will just talk about that, he will pay €50 tax on that. That's the Netherlands. As the entrepreneur to his high middle management........................................................................................................................ That no or less tax will be paid on that? Or is there some sort of administrative problem there? What problem are we solving right now? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u12	The bill before us today focuses specifically on small tech start-ups. They have indicated that they like to do it that way, so that they can compete with international start-ups. That call's been around before. As an SME spokesperson, I have also regularly studied the discussion about these participations. So, contrary to what Mr Omtzigt says, they are medium-sized enterprises. I am talking about production companies employing 50, 60, 70 people who say: I would like to have a little more connection between my employees and my company, without putting those workers on the steering wheel and on the director's seat. They just want a little bond between the company and the employees. There are many ideas for this, including internationally, in the areas of employee participation, co-ownership, co-entrepreneurship. You can see that we have quite limited facilities for this in the Netherlands, because taxation is put in box 1; that is a problem we are also talking about. So you have to have a valuation done for those SMEs and you name it. My question to the cabinet is: is the file closed or are you going to see how this works out in practice? Are there any other questions from SMEs in society? Are there things that they also find interesting, but where they run into certain points about which they would like to talk further? I think it is wise, in the context of co-entrepreneurship and co-ownership, that we look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u13	This is the Tax Plan. The tax plan is very precise. Taxation is very precise, and that is sometimes very bad. That was also the first part of what Mr Aartsen said here: how it works out for the surcharges. One sentence wrong with tax legislation or implementation, and then we all have a big problem. For the general idea that we would like to involve employees in the company, there are all kinds of arrangements. For example, you can make profit-sharing schemes or end-of-year payments based on what kind of company it is. Some companies do, too. I wonder: what is being proposed here? After ten minutes, I haven't figured that out with the best will in the world. So that's my question. Should they be able to get free or cheaper shares? They're not gonna get the majority anyway, so they're not gonna sit on that director's chair. The director is not so crazy that he throws 51% away; he really keeps that 51% to himself or provides shares with different voting rights. Anything's possible. That's not a problem at all. The question is: what tax facility does the VVD propose here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u14	I'm not proposing taxation right now. I am asking a question to the cabinet about this broad discussion, precisely in the context of due diligence, which we were just discussing. I'm not here to defend an initiative law. All I'm saying is we're going down this road now with this bill, while there are broader ideas in society about it. I just mentioned examples of SMEs saying: I would like to involve my staff a little more in entrepreneurship, ownership, of my business, but I run into existing facilities. So my appeal or my question to the cabinet would be to take a look at that as well. Do you see this bill as a bow around it and it's done with that? Or are we listening in society, to the SMEs who express this desire? We'd like to do that. I have many ideas about this, but it is exactly what Mr Omtzigt says: precisely because it has to be so specific, there is no concrete proposal from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u15	That law does have the Socialist Party, and we are certainly going to talk about promoting co-ownership. Of course, you have to do that collectively, because if you allow that individually, you get all small capitalists. Then you get the boardrooms and the managers who do benefit. It is exactly as Mr Omtzigt said: not the mailman, not the customer service worker, not the cleaner; they do not benefit. So if you want to encourage co-ownership, you have to arrange it collectively. We're definitely gonna talk about that. My question is very specific about what is going on today: postponing the moment of taxation when it comes to share option rights. The cabinet has chosen to apply this to all companies. I also hear Mr Aartsen say a number of times here: we are doing it to help those small entrepreneurs, those start-ups. We agree on this, but does he agree with the SP Group that we should limit the law to small businesses? Because that is not at all the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u16	In view of the recent discussion, I cannot resist responding to the start of Mr Alkaya's interruption. It is indeed an interesting bill, which we are probably going to discuss. It is a pity, however, that it still retains the capitalist layers between employer and employee in that profit-sharing situation. It would be nice to make people part of such a company: co-ownership. That's also the idea behind the situation I just outlined. Let me now turn to Mr Alkaya's question on persons. No, not in that respect, because then you're going to impose a limit on employees again. Then I think we're gonna interfere too much with how a company is set up. I think there are also situations where you might be over it. Then you make it unnecessarily complex. So I would like to leave it at that, but I am certainly interested as well... Again, as an SME spokesperson, I do have a particular interest in this subject. So I think it would be good to discuss this again, because I think there are certainly interesting situations that we can make even better in the Netherlands. Again, there are also international examples that we can learn from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u17	The whole argumentation of the VVD began with the small businesses, those fast-growing businesses, those tech start-ups that we need to help. The law before it is not aimed specifically at that group of companies, but at all companies. You also have large companies that are not yet listed and that are going to take advantage of this. There's a lot of talk about Coolblue now, but even when Adyen went public, a company we're all proud of, it was already a big company. Then just admit it honestly and then say as a VVD group: it's not about those small start-ups, it's also about the big companies. They will therefore now also be given an opportunity to postpone taxation. Then just admit it honestly. It's not about the small businesses at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u18	I'm not going along with my colleague Alkaya's bias, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u19	If that is the case, I also expect the VVD to vote in favour of our amendment to specifically focus this law on those small companies. We're all in favour of offering those more opportunities, but the law doesn't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u20	No. Mr Alkaya only says that the definition is "small" in number, but there is, of course, still a differentiation in terms of turnover, fte et cetera. Of course, that doesn't mean anything about big, small or anything. Let us not make it unnecessarily complex, I would say to Mr Alkaya in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u21	A question on the same subject, but a slightly different theme. The Share Option Rights Act serves a good purpose in itself: commitment of people, a piece of co-ownership; beautiful. On the other hand, it is not for nothing that we have been paying very much attention to the feasibility of laws in this Chamber lately. We can see that this is quite critical when we look at this law, not only from society but above all from, for example, the Council of State. How does the VVD view, how does Mr Aartsen look at this feasibility? Does he have any concerns about that? Does he, for example, put the question to the cabinet in order to look specifically at it? I think we agree on the goal, but that concern is very strong with us. The question is, do we share that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u22	Part of it, I think. That is why I ask the question: is this the terminal station, or is this the starting point of this discussion? I think that is a fair question that we should discuss with each other. Now the cabinet says, "This is it and figure it out for the rest"? Or do we say, "No, we're gonna do this all the time"? In that facility, I think there is this continuous balance: on the one hand, I think you want to make it easy for people to use it, but on the other hand, it must be feasible and not unnecessarily complex, as I said in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u23	In the answer to Mr Omtzigt's questions there is no such thing from the VVD: this is it, and so on. It's actually pretty open. It is also something that is clearly coming to the Tax Administration, where we already have some stuff to stagger and resolve in the coming time. There is a particular concern for me. Doesn't the VVD have something like: start now and look further? Shouldn't you first have it very sharp and see if it's really well anchored and executable, rather than stacking an extra problem with an organization where you shouldn't want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u24	I have just tried to explain in reply to Mr Omtzig's question that we do not now have a plan which has been worked out to three decimal places. I think it is wise to do this now, but we see this as a first step. Then we just have to see how this works out in practice. What are the benefits? What are the downsides? How is it used? Again, the subject of co-entrepreneurship and co-ownership has the warm interest of me as an SME spokesperson. As a result, I also know how terribly complex it is to put it into good tax legislation. That is why I think it is right to challenge the cabinet to come forward with proposals, or at least to think about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u25	I don't get it. We're dealing with that boring law right now. We have a law in front of us right now. We're asking questions again, and we've had two WHOs. There's a red flag execution key in that law. The assessment of that first step is: we cannot do it right now. The question to the colleague of the VVD, through you, President, is: would we have to wait to take the first step, given the accuracy? Surely we should have a broader debate and not take the wrong first step, when the implementation says to us: we cannot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u26	I would like to refer the questions on implementation to the cabinet. But once again, that is what my question is for. Is this a start or a terminal? If this is a terminal, it's hard for me. I think it would be wise to start with this and then see how this develops. Is it being used or not? In what way is it used? Then that discussion develops. Perhaps it is my novelty here as a replacement: I tried to link a technical part of this law to an interesting discussion point. I see Mr Nijboer shaking no more to say that I should not do so in the future: my personal interests and the social developments, which may not yet be taken into account in three figures, are included in the Tax Plan. Then I think that is a wise lesson today; not to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u27	The first win is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u28	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u29	I'm also a substitute, chairman, so I'm also surprised about this Tax Plan. The question to the cabinet we asked. I sincerely have the following question to the VVD Group. We get those execution tests to weigh them, too. Having seen that information, having seen the red flags, the number of FTEs and the rest of the task at the Tax Office, is it not wise to conclude that we should not do so now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u30	Then I still refer back to the questions I also put to the cabinet. If this is a starting point, I think it's a good first step. But again, I think we should learn from this and see how often it is used and what the situation is. Then I think I would certainly like to go on with some of my colleagues about my passion for co-entrepreneurship and co-ownership, but I will not do that here in the debate anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u31	I would point out to Mr Aartsen that he had requested ten minutes and now stands at ten minutes and nine seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u32	Yeah, yeah, pooh, pooh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u33	The rest can be written, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u34	Yeah, exactly, huh, that's the trick, I guess. Then I guess I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna ask you another question, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind. I'm gonna do two things. Since Mrs Ollongren is also here, I am going to ask a question about the performance agreements. We have said that the landlord levy is now being reduced. That's what the Hermans motion says. I think everyone wants that money actually to be used to build additional homes. In the written reply, Mrs Ollongren, excuse, the Minister says: difficult, difficult, difficult, difficult. I'm just gonna put it like I'd say it myself. We in the VVD would find that a little too simple. I really think we should say, guys, come on, a little more national direction on that. We can just make arrangements with corporations. Covenant agreements can be concluded. There may have been consultations. I think it's really important to do that. Mr. Chairman. Then one final comment. I warned you about that. We would like to see the amendment on item No. 6 (35931) Only my colleague Idsinga can do that, as we understood from the Bureau of Legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u35	Yes, because he's the first petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u36	Exactly. I just wanted to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u37	Since you've said it now, I think it should be legal, but let's take a swing at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u38	Given the legal history, I thought it was important to report this here. Then we'll see how we're gonna organize it technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u39	Very important. It is good that you say it, because otherwise we would vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u40	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u41	Well, then that's settled. I have another political question for the VVD. Last year it turned out that it was quite difficult in the First Chamber to manage the housing budget. Then the coalition and the cabinet concluded an agreement with the PvdA and GroenLinks. We'll have the housing budget next week. Can the VVD speak about the coverage of the ideas we have? Think of extending the Housing Fund to improve the quality of life of towns and villages and reducing the landlord's tax, which is being regulated today and which is being voted on on Thursday. Or is this just: we're going right with Van Haga and cronies and you can see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u42	I have just said that it is a good thing that at least a package came out of the broad political centre during the General Political Reviews. I do not know to what extent Mr Nijboer would like to do that package or not in the future. That's what I'm challenging him for. It is also a bit moving towards each other, I would like to say. But when it comes to the housing budget, I really would like to refer to my colleague who makes the housing budget. I'm taking over the tax package here today. If I am going to do the housing budget here too, then a lot of my initial knowledge is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u43	The landlord's tax is one of our most important stones of offense. That is something that is being done, but I would just like to say that the PvdA has done the same for GroenLinks, because it has said this before, and it does not vote in favour of the housing budget if it is not adjusted. We are voting on Thursday on the Tax Plan, which often includes coverage options. This also happened last year with the increased burden on investors of 8%. Our wishes are also financed from this. If we vote on Thursday and the VVD says that it must be covered and that it cannot be after we have voted because we are dealing with the housing budget on Monday, then we have a big problem. Then at least tenants have a big problem, because then you have to cross right. At least you won't get a majority from the PvdA. In that sense, I think it is a relevant question in this debate. We are talking about all the revenue, including the coverage possibilities. For example, I also have a nice amendment on offer. That's about the prince-bernhard tax. That's a nice cover. If you vote for it, I'm in a better mood too. It's a way of financing beautiful things. But that's what today is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u44	I believe that the landlord levy is being adjusted, partly on the occasion of the Hermans motion. I would also like to put the question to Mr Nijboer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u45	No, no, don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u46	Then I would like to ask the rhetorical question how he sees the definition of "compromise."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u47	Finally. I'm crystal clear. We have sometimes voted against the Tax Plan. We will assess the law separately, but we will not vote against the increase in the tax on profits that is now included in the healthcare package. But the housing budget, as it currently stands, the Home Affairs budget, is not enough to address the housing shortage that exists today. Things have to be changed. Otherwise, we will vote against it, because we do not think it is enough at the moment. The VVD thinks that everything is going well, that the housing crisis is not so bad and that it is all going well for those tenants. That's possible, but it'll have to look elsewhere for majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u48	I think the landlord's tax has been adjusted. I hope that Mr Nijboer's definition of compromise is that you come out somewhere in the middle and not just come out at the point you really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u49	The housing crisis is only getting worse. The cabinet also admits in its first reply on the Tax Plan that abolishing the landlord's tax is actually necessary, but I do not think I can convince the VVD of that. It was interesting what the VVD just said about such a compromise being incredibly beautiful. However, the VVD is probably also aware that due to the rising WOZ value since the general considerations, the landlord levy is again rising. In any case, would the VVD be prepared to maintain that compromise, so to ensure that the WOZ value does not cause the landlord levy to rise again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u50	I find that difficult, because things always change in the world. I think we have made a nice concession with the energy tax, but also there things go up and things go down. I find it really hard to react to that all the time. I think a political agreement has been reached. There are a number of compromises from many different parties. That includes the reduction of the landlord's tax. It is indeed no secret to you that the VVD is not in favour of this. You make agreements with each other, so let's stick to that. I also challenge other parties to join these agreements and to compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u51	Of course, this challenge does not concern the SP. We are standing right here in front of those tenants who have already paid 12.5 billion in landlord tax. This has resulted in far too few houses being built, the rents having increased, the quality of homes being left behind. So, no, that seems like a pretty tragic challenge. But things go up, things go down? Then what are we doing here, if there is no room left for the VVD colleague to change anything in the Tax Plan? We decide what goes up and what goes down, don't we, "things in the world"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u52	No. However, we have made an agreement with each other, at least we, the political centre, on the reduction of the landlord's tax. It will be reduced in this bill. A number of other things are being done, including defence, security, teachers, etc. That is, of course, also political in the sense of choosing in scarcity. It does not focus solely on one measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u53	Mrs Maatoug and then we go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u54	I'm new to politics and I don't know the definition of compromise very well. But the last time I looked it up in the dictionary and also when I look at political relations, you are actually on your own, I say to the colleague of the VVD. The whole Chamber says that this is an extremely bad measure, but your group is blocking it. Then why are you not prepared to compromise, I ask you, Mr President, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u55	I think we are voting on Tuesday on a proposal on the reduction of the landlord's tax. I think that is a compromise. You can't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u56	Fine. Then we will listen to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u57	12 billion, 649 million, 581 thousand and 965 euros. That is what has been paid by tenants so far for landlord tax, over 12.5 billion. It's such a big amount that it's almost abstract. But it's very concrete for the people who pay it, the people who hit it. It means that tens of thousands of new social housing units have not been built, that waiting lists of more than ten years are no longer unusual. It means higher rents, people who can't pay their rent anymore, who have to think about every dime every month. And it means a worse quality of homes. It means people who are still in a wind-up house and do not dare to turn on the stove because of the high gas prices. Removing more than 12.5 billion from social tenants is antisocial, it has caused enormous misery, it has increased the housing crisis and it has to stop. That is why we are putting forward this proposal again. But even though it increases the housing crisis, the VVD continues. This should, of course, have been the debate where we would be discussing a proposal to abolish the landlord's tax. After all, the Constitution states that sufficient housing is the subject of public concern. And there has also been a large majority in the House of Representatives for a long time for the abolition of that landlord's tax. Only the VVD and, forward, the SGP, are still in favour of the levy. We should have talked about abolition because it's bizarre to hide you in the midst of the biggest housing shortage since World War II behind a formation with exactly the same parties that formed the previous cabinet. We need to talk about abolition because we are wasting precious time that we also need to take other tax measures against the housing crisis. During the General Reviews, a reduction in the landlord's tax was proudly presented. A reduction is not enough, but that reduction is already falling. The WOZ value is increasing, which means that corporations have to pay more landlord tax again. In the written answer we saw a defense of the cabinet that is truly inimitable. On the one hand, on page 42 it says that maximizing the landlord's tax on the agreed amount costs the cabinet money. That's bizarre, because the high rental charge hasn't been estimated at all. On the other hand, on page 45 of the reply, I'm just saying, because then you can check out the fact that the higher landlord's tax would be good for the corporations. This is absurd as it is. In that answer we also see a kind of juggling with years. On one page the tax will be back at last year's level in 2030, but on the other page it will be back in 2025. At the same time, the cabinet admits honestly that this will cause further problems for corporations. Even if the entire reduction is used, there can be no sufficient housing. The answer: what is it? Why these inimitable answers to a serious, if you want technical debate? Why not admit that it was just a really bad idea to get that landlord tax back on? Why, I ask my colleagues in the Chamber, will a majority be held hostage by a VVD minority? Why is that more important than tackling the housing crisis? In the reply we see that there is still no real solution to the other taxes paid by tenants, namely the tax on profits and the tax on tax avoidance multinationals. And if tenants aren't something, then it is. Finally, I would like to talk about affordability. The landlord levy was introduced in the economic crisis. Tenants paid the last crisis and they still pay it. But tenants are now threatening to pay for the next crisis, namely the energy crisis and rising inflation. After a long battle, rents in the social rental sector have now been frozen until July. And in the free sector, rent increases are limited to inflation plus 1%. But the rents are threatening to rise rapidly from July because of rising inflation. And the law for a one-time rent cut, which was part of the plan last year, ends. Meanwhile, high energy prices already put many tenants in trouble. What's the Cabinet gonna do? Is it going to lower the rents? Or is it at least going to extend the rent freeze for corporations as well as for commercial landlords? Is the Cabinet going to extend the law for a one-time rent reduction? Is it going to lower the threshold in the rent payment so that very low-income tenants don't get into trouble? Will the cabinet also make the rent allowance accessible for rents above the liberalisation limit? Because tenants with low income but high rents need this extra badly. These are just a few proposals that we can really make at the end of this housing crisis. The question is: are we going to be held hostage by the narrow part of the VVD, or are we going to take real action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u58	Thank you. Mr Alkaya, from the same group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u59	Mr. Chairman. When in mid-September, around the General Political Reviews, the formation was completely stuck, it became clear for a moment how the majority in the Netherlands, and also the majority in this Chamber, really think about society. For a moment, therefore, it was not the most important thing how the largest party in our country looks at society, but how the majority of the parties do it. And so a small part of that landlord's tax went off, so that social housing can hopefully be made more accessible, affordable and sustainable. But so the profit tax for multinationals also went up slightly, after it had been falling for decades. So caregivers also received a well-earned wage increase, which the SP has been fighting for for a long time. Those were only the first but promising steps. Unfortunately, that is all, because the old coalition wants to get on with it. That is why the real debate has moved from Parliament's plenary to the formation table. And it's taking so long at that formation table. In the meantime, perhaps against better knowledge, the SP has tabled several amendments based on the alternative choices we have presented on Prinsjesdag. For example, we are proposing a further increase in the tax on profits for the largest companies, because I would like to remind you that it was 48% in the early 1980s. Now it's going up to 25.8%. With the money we collect, we can further increase wages, for example in health care or in education, but this can also eliminate the landlord's tax and the tax on profits for housing associations and foundations. If all the parties in this Chamber will vote according to their electoral programmes, according to their promises, our country may be able to make considerable progress, thanks to the amendments tabled by the various parties, including the SP. But if they do not, millions of people will be at risk of falling back in 2022, while the economy will grow on paper again. That's phantom growth. That is unjust and unnecessary. We can avoid that, but I fear that the coalition parties behind this double-decommissioned cabinet will vote against everything, because they want to stay in the saddle together with the VVD. In doing so, they are not only holding themselves hostage but unfortunately also the rest of the country. Mr. Chairman. That is sad, but there is also a limited tax plan on the table today. I would also like to talk about this, because we also have some concerns about a number of things in it. We have already discussed a great deal in the legislative debate and the written consultation. I will not go through everything again, but there is the Job-related Investment Discount or so there are the crocodile tears of many parties about the surcharge scandal. I won't talk about that. I will focus specifically on what the cabinet has presented today. First of all, I would like to refer to the proposal for a tax adjustment for share option rights, which has been the subject of a number of debates with the VVD. The cabinet has chosen to create a generic law that applies to all companies, because of its feasibility, it says. As a result, large companies, which are not yet listed but intend to become public, can also make use of this measure, which should primarily target small start-ups. Think of the IPO of a company like Coolblue, which is now being talked about a lot, but also of an innovative company like Adyen, which was long since not a small company when it went to the stock market. They, too, could have benefited from this measure, which, contrary to the reasoning of the parties behind it, is not at all directed towards those small businesses. They make it look like it's aimed at those small businesses. That could count on broad support in this Chamber, I suspect, but the law now before us is not. The Cabinet admits that the provision of share option rights as a wage under this law also becomes more interesting for larger companies, but does not expect any particular increase. The SP would like to rule this out completely. I have therefore tabled an amendment to make it possible to postpone the tax until the shares are negotiable, as the law actually proposes, only for companies if they do not employ more than 100 employees at the time when the share option rights were granted. What is the government's opinion on this amendment? Mr. Chairman. Then the law that would have to counteract mismatches in the application of the arm's length principle. Again, that sounds very technical, but it is about billions of tax avoidance by large multinationals. The cabinet is now taking steps to make this partly impossible. The SP supports this law but is not convinced of the arguments put forward by the Cabinet to enforce this law only from July 2019. Initially, that would be 2017. The cabinet says that companies could not reasonably expect the government to start tackling tax avoidance until then, i.e. from July 2019. But the SP and a number of other parties have been asking for years to tackle this kind of phony construction and the cabinet has also been saying for years that it is going to do so. This has been done in recent years. I see that and my party supports that, but no company should be surprised that a country is tackling tax avoidance. And if they are surprised that a government is taking additional steps in this respect, they certainly do not deserve a coulance. I'm talking about a company like Uber, of course. Therefore, the SP together with GroenLinks is tabling an amendment to allow this law to apply by 2017, as originally intended. Mr. Chairman. The SP believes that it is not going in the right direction when it comes to how to deal with electric driving, emission-free driving and its tax treatment. Because of the long over-subsidisation, the revenues, among other things, of excise duties, vehicle taxes and all kinds of other things are decreasing faster than expected. The tendency in this Chamber is then to tax the use more heavily for everyone, in the form of a mileage tax. This was also discussed in the legislative consultation. But the fair solution is obvious, namely to tax electric driving more fairly. You should not, on the one hand, give tax advantages and, on the other hand, tax everyone more heavily in the form of road charging because there is tax loss and there is less tax revenue. Is the Minister prepared to present a plan to reduce all tax incentives for electric driving? Taxation must not become merely a means of influencing society. They must also remain just in order to maintain support. Finally, Mr President. I would like to thank the cabinet for the extra insight into the effects of housing insulation and the proposed tax advantage, the compensatory measures, on gas consumption. You can see that for some people in small poorly isolated apartments it would be more advantageous for the government to lower the tax on gas consumption rather than on electricity, as is currently the case. But I also see that it is different for other households. I find that hard to believe, but I'm assuming the numbers are right. I also understand how complex it is. It's still an assessment, of course. However, I am pleased that the cabinet, together with municipalities, is looking for additional measures for those who are hit hardest by the increase in the energy bill. It's being looked at to compensate those people for extra focus. But the cabinet continues to talk about a search for whether and how this should take place. I understand the search for the how. There's a lot of ways to do that. We have also had a debate on this in the various legislative proposals, but there can be no doubt as to whether this should be done. There is a broad wish and a broad call in this Chamber to compensate the people who are in a difficult situation because of the huge increase in energy costs. Of course, the cabinet will have time to figure out how to do that, but I would like to know when we will hear it. I'm gonna need an answer today. I want to hear that it's no longer the question if it happens, but that we're just gonna do it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u60	Of course, you're not getting that conclusion today. We'll find out tomorrow when we start listening to the answer. If you can be patient, it's your turn tomorrow. Those are compromises, Mr. Alkaya. We're gonna look up the definition of that. In the meantime, Mr Hammelburg of D66 has come forward here. He requested 22 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u61	There's a lot of laughing around here. I won't do that to any of you. As you may hear, my voice is cracking and squeaking. My lungs aren't doing so good either, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u62	Keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u63	I'll keep it brief, between the cough showers. I am glad that Minister Ollongren is in any case better and is here. I want to start living with the block, also because we couldn't do that last week. Mr Alkaya asked a valid question as a closing point. He asked: what about cabinet policy in its entirety? This arose in a small debate last week between the SP and D66 about how we deal with mobility, with electric car parks, with tour homes and especially with the Dutch who are currently struggling, especially because of high energy prices. How are we gonna bet the $150 million? I also have a few questions for the Minister of the Interior. Can we get an overview of the totality of sustainable measures, specifically for social housing and tour houses? How much do we pay for that in total? We can read 150 million in the budget, but there are many measures. Because I am not the spokesperson for living, I do not have the overview, but I thought it important to have that discussion honestly, also because I promised Mr Alkaya that relations would be good. I would like to say this, and I will come back to that in a moment: if we really want to tackle climate change, then we have to do so in full. If we want to get 60%, we have to make sure we do something about the fleet. Anyway, parties can think differently about that, but at least you know where D66 is. Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, that was the part about living that we couldn't do last week. I've got a visual on the Interrupt Microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u64	Just keep talking!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u65	Yeah, just keep talking, the chairman says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u66	Before I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman, the following. I would like to limit the number of interruptions to six. So I'd be tight on it. I had the silent dream to finish this whole first term for dinner, but if I add up every minute, I'll be 122 minutes. That's a little over two hours, and then we'll be in the middle of something. But it's all up to you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u67	This also seems to me to be an important debate. Mr Omtzigt mentioned it as the most important debate of the year, so I would like to ask D66. In all kinds of voters before the elections, you also promised to stop the landlord levy. You are already being held hostage by the only supporter, the VVD. That is painful, especially for the people who have to pay the landlord's tax, namely the tenants. But let us try to find that compromise. During the General Reviews it was said: we are going to lower her. Afterwards it soon turned out: it's going up again because of that rising World War II value. I would very much like to know from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: why don't we maximize that? Why don't we keep that promise that was made then? That is not good enough for me, but at least that would be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u68	This is what we discussed last week. During the Financial Reviews we also discussed this. I believe that it was then a question from Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer. The SP knows very well what D66 wants. We have said very clearly in our election programme: convert the landlord levy into a corporation fund, increase the initial space of corporations, build more affordable and sustainable homes and sustainably the current stock. That's actually exactly what I was talking about. There is therefore no misunderstanding at all. The SP also knows we're in the middle of formation calls. So we can keep doing this, but that is the situation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u69	First of all, D66 repeats that she is being held hostage by the VVD. There is a majority to abolish the landlord's tax. There is also a very acute need, because there is a huge housing crisis. But there was no answer to my question. It was about the World War II value. Are you going to be held hostage by the VVD? Or are you saying, no, we're not gonna let that landlord tax go any further, so we're gonna max it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u70	Then I repeat my answer again, and then I just stick to my answer. I see Mrs. Beckerman laughing. I have said on several occasions that corporations also need much more financial space. You know that from me, you know that from my group. You also know that's why we're fighting. We also have good use in this country, and I know it takes a long time to have formation talks. That is a long tradition in coalition country, which I am very pleased with. I understand your impatience and I understand the impatience of the Netherlands, but that is the way we set up democracy in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u71	Together with Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Maatoug, I have made an amendment that does not have to cost anything. That amendment actually says that the only thing we do not want is to increase the value of the World Trade Organisation and that the landlord levy will pay more than is actually foreseen next year. I thought that was a rather intelligent amendment myself. I'm actually expecting D66 to take this amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u72	You're not modest, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u73	I also sometimes table amendments here which do not stand a chance in advance. You do that because you find something. You say, for example, that the tax on profits should be increased, but you already know that the coalition does not support that. I think that is an important political point and I will submit it, because that is my job. I want to make laws better. But this is an amendment that I think the coalition should be able to support if it is benevolent. That's in line with what D66 thinks. I'll make it possible, because it doesn't cost anything. So it can be very helpful, especially because that WED value is threatening to rise. You're picking up exactly what was agreed in the budget. You then turn on the VVD a bit of the screws without crossing the borders. So I'm asking D66 to support that. At least I'm asking what she's up against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u74	I agree with Mr Nijboer: he is extremely intelligent. I'll give you the compliment anyway. I didn't read the amendment like that. I promise Mr Nijboer I will take another good look at it. I still have that time. That is a promise from me to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u75	I shall come back to that in the second term, because there are several amendments. The SP amendment is for abolition. I'm under that, too. You're not going to support that. That's been clear to me a long time. But this is really just an amendment that is intended not to bring in excess of what has been agreed. Of course, compensation for the ATAD Directive has also been agreed. The coalition itself did that. This is another unforeseen yield that could be more. I think that is very helpful and it would be very helpful for corporations to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u76	We're gonna talk about it tomorrow. I think that's a good idea. Mr. Chairman. Then climate change and climate change. Let's start with "It's perhaps a tad out of order "I'm glad that the Netherlands has signed up and now belongs to the leading group in stopping fossil fuels and investing in them. I think that should be mentioned. D66 filed a motion during the General Financial Reviews almost Chamberwide. I may be overreacting, but at least it was by a good majority. Today, GroenLinks did the same. That motion has already been put to the vote. I'm glad the cabinet signed that. This Tax Plan also has a number of points that are good for combating climate change. I'll mention a few. The reduced rate in shore power is extended, including an extension for sea-going vessels in ports. The environmental list is becoming more effective. I have to say that we will continue to look at how that works. We continue, as I said, with electrification of the fleet and the sustainability of tour houses. I think that's important. Is that enough? Should it be more ambitious? I would say that it should be more ambitious. In any case, I am pleased that the cabinet is now giving 6.8 billion to meet the basics. Of course, the basis is not enough, but we will come back to that. Mr Boucke also had a wide-ranging debate on this last week. I do have a little bit of a "bike" and I have to take a look at that, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, a question about the bicycle regulation of the case. I would also like to support this regulation in the list of climate measures. I understand from the Secretary of State that, following a question from me, employers have indicated that it is not that bad with the administrative burden. I'm getting very different signals. So I see a contradiction in that. Let me just say clearly: if the regulation of the bicycle of the case does not work, then I would be very sorry. We want to encourage people to take the bike more often and less often the car; even rather the bike than the train. So if there's anything you can do, take the bike, because that's healthy and better for the environment. I'd like to do it from Amsterdam to The Hague, but then I'm on the road a little too long. But otherwise, I always try to do it. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he is prepared to discuss again with the employers what exactly the problems we are getting signals from would be. I am very willing to pass those signals if the Secretary of State needs them. I await the Secretary of State's answer to this question. Then I come to the attention we have had in this house for tax avoidance. It's no secret there's still a lot of problems. Over the last few weeks, we have discussed them several times in various debates in this house. Mr Mulder said, not entirely unjustly, that the tax system must be fair if we want to keep it going. What bothers me so much in the whole tax avoidance story is that especially the ordinary Dutchman, the baker and the butcher on the corner or the veggie on the corner for the average D66-bucket. The common Dutchman doesn't have the ability to hire people for a lot of money and play smart tricks. I see some light in the international agreements on the minimum rate. I am also confident that a directive will soon be agreed in Europe, but there is no time to sit back. I therefore ask the Secretary of State for a number of things. Let me ask those questions out loud. Why do we not take the flight forward in the mismatch measure with countries where the rate is zero? I asked that question last week, but I found the answer mwah. I would like to have an answer to that. I understand that the Secretary of State raises the complexity in the international context, but I also find the answer complicated. Let me add that to that. I would like some more clarification from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u77	A good moment: D66 ask attention for the common Dutchman. It's about time, I was gonna say, but it's still beautiful. Could my colleague explain the following? D66 is all over the IRS. Partly determines the distribution of the money. I'm talking about the secretaries at the wheel. I didn't see you looking. We've been around four years. Can you explain why the ordinary Dutchman has not improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u78	I think the question is why we all didn't or didn't reduce taxes much. Mr Mulder is very flattering. That makes it a very complicated story. We have big challenges in this country. I can list them all here, but I think we have already done so in previous debates. I can do it again, you know. We had concerns about education and defence. We've been talking about the maintenance of bridges lately. You can make a whole list of things that we just need taxes for. If Mr Mulder knows anything about D66 or about me, it is that we want to reduce the tax on income and increase the tax on wealth. That's what our election program says, so does the PVV. That is our commitment and our mission, and I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u79	It's all "would like" and possibly in the future and a few bridges. But in practice, the common man has been deteriorating for four years. Why didn't you take care of it as D66, because you think it's supposedly unfair, that these people have improved on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u80	I've seen one proposal from the PVV on this. That was to remove the 6.8 billion to comply with the judge's ruling to counter climate change. That is a proposal in which you will certainly not find D66 on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u81	This is really bad. D66 has no arguments and they say: I don't really know why I did it, but the PVV has done so little. Well, we put forward proposals, motions and amendments in almost every debate to ensure that the common Dutchman is making progress. My question is: you have been working with your party for many years, and in practice the common Dutchman is going backwards, in all areas. You say: we want to, it's in our election programme, but why didn't you just make sure that after four years we can make the calculation that shows that people are making progress? So they don't, they go backwards. My only question to you is why D66 didn't take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u82	It is simply not true that Dutch people have systematically deteriorated in recent years. We know that we have been going through a serious corona crisis over the past year; that is absolutely true. We also had a debate in which, first of all, in August, we assumed that purchasing power would remain the same and would not decline. I agree with Mr Mulder that there was a problem with rising energy prices. For this purpose, the cabinet has devised a compensation scheme, in which D66 asked for a motion to use it in part for the poorest people in this country. I just don't recognize myself in Mr Mulder's words. Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the two Vpb rates that I was talking about last week. Maybe I should explain it again after all. You have a low rate and a high rate. There are companies that are subject to the high rate, which pull the trick to cut an e.g. into a number of small e.g. so that they fall under the low rate. So that is not what it is meant for, and that is extremely unfair, especially for those people in SMEs that we want to push at the low rate. It is unclear to me how big this problem is. I hear from various quarters that the problem is there, but I still do not know exactly how big it is and how you should determine the relationship between those two rates to ensure that the problem is as small as possible. I will therefore table a motion to ask for this to be monitored so that we can have a better view of it and also have a better discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u83	Mrs Maatoug, you have six interruptions and you're at 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u84	Thank you, Mr President, for that explanation too. Glad to hear there's going to be a motion. Mr D66 also knows that we have an amendment. I'm very glad you're worried, too. If we are concerned about what we are already seeing, then it is quite logical to say that the problem is getting bigger if the gap between the low and high rates gets higher, what is the case in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u85	That is precisely the problem. That is the question I am asking the Secretary of State. Mrs Maatoug says she knows for sure, but I don't know for sure. I want to know for sure. That's why I'm asking you to find out. I don't want to anticipate the troops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u86	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u87	I think it is a very important point, but I believe that GroenLinks also wants us to keep the SMEs safe. I'm not even sure, so I'm just gonna take a look at Mrs. Maatoug. The point is that we don't let the good guys suffer from the bad guys. Let me just put it this way. That would turn the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u88	You're continuing. I hear your voice is gonna break up a little bit, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u89	I think that's a good encouragement from you to keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u90	I'm thinking about your health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u91	I'm at three-quarters of my story, Chairman. But I don't plan the interruptions myself. You understand that, too. Mr. Chairman. Let's see. I'm going to do this for you very briefly, Mr. President. That was my promise. I still have a lot of odds and taxes. We have had a discussion earlier about how it is easier to measure income inequality, but the tax burden on wealth is complicated. I still find the Secretary of State's answers a little complicated. We've been asking you to map this out for a while. I understand that it is difficult, but I still want to have more insight for the Chamber on the basis of a number of scenarios, at least for different types of asset holders and different households. You can think of it, and a little more extensive than three scenarios, so that we in the Chamber get a little insight into that tax burden on assets. I want to have that discussion honestly. We're feeding them on income now. As far as I am concerned, as far as D66 is concerned, that is really not enough. If wealth inequality grows too fast, the opportunity inequality in this country will also grow. That's really undesirable. Then a little one, but not a very small one, but still a small one. I'm going to explain. We have information on the website of the Tax Administration for people seeking help in applying for their fees and in filling out their tax form. Each municipality has its own support scheme for this. Think of a tax store in Rotterdam. In some municipalities you can be at the library. If you're looking far, far, it's somewhere neatly on the Tax Office website. That's good. I have to, but I don't think it's enough. So my question to the Secretary of State is whether we can make this easier, for example through a certain tool. There are certain delivery services that have this too. You fill in your zip code and there are a number of locations where you can go to your neighborhood, so that you can see it right away and not consult the entire website or colophon of Belastingdienst.nl. That is incredibly complicated and inaccessible, so please have a reaction from the Secretary of State. Then a final point, actually from Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA, about the software of the Vpb domain in the new systems. By 2027, there should be a new system. That's barely five years from now. That's really fast. I'm a little worried about that. There have been problems in the past with the donation and inheritance tax and the software. The Netherlands had to pay extra money to keep that software in the air longer. I don't want us to get back into such a scenario, so can the Secretary of State send a letter explaining what the planning looks like and what the progress is now? Are we gonna get that planning? What does the service specifically need? We must do our utmost not to get into trouble again. That was him. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u92	Fine! Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party. I would like to point out once again that I hope to be able to conclude this first term of office before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u93	I will do my best, Chairman, and certainly not start with Adam and Eve, because we have been debating for two whole days. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the housing proposals. I woke up cheerful this morning. I thought the Minister could do it! She's taking on the real estate agents. I have been trying for years to identify these abuses and to say that there really needs to be legal intervention, and now the Minister is simply announcing it. Last year, in the housing budget, she also showed that an agreement could be made with GroenLinks and the PvdA on maximising the rent increases and setting up a housing fund to increase the quality of life. I look forward to achieving that again this year. We believe that the coalition's proposals, on which a compromise has indeed been reached, are insufficient at the moment, but that is a compromise between the coalition parties. We believe that these proposals do not do justice to the housing shortage that exists today. We find that these do not do justice to tenants who pay themselves completely blue in rent. And we find that these do not solve the problems that exist today. Last year we thought: it will be a missionary cabinet, so we are helping the budget to a majority and next year there will be a missionary cabinet that can really go ahead. But there isn't, and the world doesn't stand still. I mean, in The Hague, people are always arguing with each other, but the problems in the world are not getting any smaller. Mr. Chairman. This leads us to consider it necessary again this year to adapt three things in the budget. We want a further reduction in the landlord's tax. Besides that, we also have to deal with house milkers. They are taking their chances in the Netherlands. So we want a house sledgehammer ticket or a criminal offence, because we really need to do something about violating the housing valuation system, as the techs call it. You can do that now, and you can milk those tenants every time. There's no punishment for that at all. This must also be done with regard to the PvdA. And the Housing Fund was filled for a year, with 450 million, because then there would be a new cabinet that would really invest the years on it. But there isn't, and that investment in viability is really necessary. Mr. Chairman. I call that a little broader, because the landlord levy is now on the agenda, but also because I know the Pappenheimers a little bit here. We are voting on the Tax Plan on Thursday, and there are often many coverage options in it. That's what happened last year. The 8% investors now have to pay as cover for the Housing Fund. I have also tabled amendments, together with Mrs Maatoug, together with GroenLinks, in order to cover our proposals. Mrs Maatoug is the first to be under an amendment to abolish the jubilee. That's a lot of money. I myself tabled an amendment to introduce the prince-bernhard tax. That was also a rather big issue in the election campaign. I did not mention that term in the amendment, because that is something that some Members are opposed to. But that's just about the fact that when you own a lot of rentals, you don't pay taxes. That's not really acceptable. That's what everybody should think. Haga's not here, but he doesn't think so. But any sane person should think so. All these investors are taking over the cities. This is partly because the interest rate is so low and because real estate is so interesting, but also because it is tax undertaxed. So that's where it can be found. I'd like to invite the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State to get out of there together. I'd be happy to. But on the other hand, if there is no movement at all and the coalition says 'the compromise is the compromise, it is swallowing or suffocating', then we are simply voting against it. Then we'll see if they get a majority across the right. That would be very bad news for the tenants in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second point where I actually started so cheerful. That's the energy bill. It is, of course, a great misery that it is rising, but the cabinet has come up with a substantial compensation package. I have tabled a motion on this, but so have colleagues from the coalition. It has also been amended on a point of which I, as a PvdAer, became enthusiastic, namely to meet lower incomes a little more. On another point I was less enthusiastic, namely the shifting between companies: the baker gets a little less and the greenhouse horticulture gets a little more. I think it is right for the cabinet to do so, because a majority voted for it, but we in the PvdA did not support it. I regret, however, that the proposal to put some pressure on the landlords is so limited. Mrs Beckerman just called it a "dwelling house," but suppose you're in a huge drafty house with a very low energy label, when you pay yourself all blue but can't do anything about it, because you can't go to another rental house either. I have proposed to reduce the rent by €150, €165 or €200. That is actually very limited. I do not think this cabinet is very keen on this, but it would be very helpful. I therefore ask the cabinet to respond to this, not to reject it. We will also put that motion to the vote on Thursday. Mr. Chairman. The third major point is the tax avoidance package. We have co-signed a number of amendments, also led by Mrs Maatoug, to close the gaps a little further. I actually have one more key question to ask the Secretary of State. He mentioned, for example, the earningsstrapping clause in the written reply. That means, for ease of reference: if you borrow a lot of money and have a lot of debts, you can reduce profits and pay less taxes. He said in his written answer: "We have this Earnings Stripping clause, and there are still some ways to avoid it. We may come forward with proposals on this next year." My simple question to the Secretary of State is: why didn't you do it now? If you already foresee that that will happen, why isn't that already in this law? Isn't that the way it should be? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the assessment of the overall tax package. I made a speech in the Financial Reviews on the Pen parade: inequalities in the Netherlands are getting worse. With taxes, mainly on capital, but also on income, you see huge outliers, but that applies to society as a whole: housing shortage, public health, education. Inequalities are increasing. The Tax Plan is one of the most important instruments to at least address income and wealth inequality. The PvdA Group believes that the cabinet could and should have made other choices. It could have introduced a prince-bernhard tax. It could have further increased the income tax. The cabinet is now increasing it by 0.8 percentage points, but you could have increased it further in order to reduce the inequality of opportunity in education and society. You could have also made people advance in their income instead of getting them all on or below the zero line, because of that energy bill. These are choices that the cabinet has not made, but they are different from previous years. We have to note that the law for the BIK, which follows from the dividend tax, has been repealed. That money is being used for investment in society. I also note that the motion of the SP and the Christian Union to increase healthcare salaries has led to the idea of a higher corporate tax rate. We wholeheartedly support that. In short, if the PvdA could have written the Tax Plan, it would have been really different, also different from signature, and then assets would have been much more heavily taxed, but it is so far in a different direction than, for example, two or three years ago, when we voted against the Tax Plan, that it will not lead us to vote against it. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude by bringing a number of amendments to the warmest of my fellow Members' attention. I'm not gonna name them all. My name is also included in an amendment tabled by Mrs Maatoug, but she will take that up. I am mainly concerned with the two amendments to residence. The abolition of the jubelton, a huge inequality, is a source of money. I would also recommend the introduction of Prince Bernhard's tax to colleagues. A large one, which would make the tax plan and income policy really much fairer, would be an increase in income tax by 3 billion, to 30%, and raising the minimum wage and benefits, including the AOW and the link to the benefit. If you ask me what would really make it much better and fairer, that would be the amendment I would like to be the next signatory of. Finally, Mr President. It may be a bit of a technical amendment, but it may have a big impact. I also asked Mr Hammelburg about this. The landlord's tax is reduced by half a billion. It's been a little cow business. Everyone got half a billion dollars: half a billion dollars for security, half a billion dollars for income, half a billion dollars for... That doesn't have so much to do with social analyses and problems underneath, but the idea was to actually have half a billion dollars left, net, at the bottom of the line, as Pechtold would say. I experienced that myself with education at the time. It's gotta be really clean. Yeah, he said "clean." That is not likely to happen now, because the WPA value is going on and on, perhaps more than the estimate. In the end, the landlord levy becomes much higher than foreseen in the estimate. So I have made an amendment that puts it on what is included in the budget. I am, of course, in favour of abolishing the landlord's tax. Mrs Beckerman was the first to sign that amendment, but my name is also underneath it; but, well, we'll see if that works. But to record it at that level, so that it does not have to be completely out again, I have tabled an amendment. That would not have to cost anything budgetaryly, because it is in the estimate. It would give housing corporations peace of mind. It really helps, so I would really recommend that amendment to the tax spokesmen of the coalition in particular, because apart from Van Haga, there is usually support in the opposition for motions on landlord tax. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u94	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your conciseness. Then there is Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it is not going to be so brief, but I hope you will be able to keep the hunger down for a while. People get hungry at some point, and then you start taking it out on someone. Since it's dinnertime, there's obviously a risk. Mr. Chairman. I often hear people talking about taxes as something that needs to be done fairly. What exactly is "fair" and why is that so important? Taxing and good tax morals are important requirements for the government to function properly. Citizens and businesses must have the confidence that the tax burden is fairly distributed among society, that is to say citizens and businesses, and that taxes are properly levied. For us, a fair tax system means taxing on the basis of capacity and equality. It appears complicated in practice. There are large differences between tax rates for different types of households. This then results in large differences in disposable income. Important preconditions for achieving fair taxation are that taxes are simple, that it is understandable to the citizen why certain taxes are levied or benefits are given and that there are not too many schemes stacked together, so that no one can see the forest through the trees anymore. But the reality of tax legislation is different. We have so many regulations, which we also regularly adapt, that the proverbial forest of regulations is becoming larger and more opaque. For example, the Netherlands recently appeared high in the Global Tax Expenditures Database because we make the most extensive exceptions to the standard rules in our tax legislation. It is teeming with anomalies in the Netherlands. The General Court also regularly draws attention to the large number of Dutch tax schemes. They counted 213 different schemes with a total financial interest of EUR 100 billion. The amount of regulations even leads to Parliament not having a current view of them, according to the Court of Auditors. The question is also whether all these arrangements and exceptions are really necessary or whether we should deal with them differently. As far as we are concerned, the more regulations and exceptions there are, the more this can lead to inequality, tax avoidance or errors in implementation. The Tax Administration publishes annually in the millions note what the schemes cost to lose tax revenue. In 2019, this was about €13 billion out of a total tax revenue of 300 billion; money that we can use very well to take important steps in the major challenges we face as a society. In addition, as a Chamber we want to be able to make good and well prepared choices. That requires, among other things, time, time to do our job well. So once again my plea for the tax plan to be presented in March instead of in September. That gives us that time to treat tax laws better and more carefully. I know that what is going on here is a very sober plan, but in relation to many other legislative amendments, it is still strong. In addition to simple legislation, we need to focus on the feasibility of legislation, for which a well-functioning ICT infrastructure is a prerequisite. Those of the Tax Administration are now comparable to a pan full of wet spaghetti. The Secretary of State promised a letter about ICT capacity, so that the Chamber can better see where it stands in relation to the choices we make. But I would like to go one step further. I would like to see an annual section on the status of ICT in the Tax Administration, which includes the following. 1. What about the renewal of the systems? 2. What does the proposed plan have for ICT implications? 3. A list of the proposals in the tax plan, including a qualification of the impact on society on the one hand and the impact on ICT on the other. I am also struggling with the impact of motions and amendments in relation to feasibility. I have heard that some amendments require up to a year of extra work in implementation. My question is whether this is true and whether there is any possibility of giving an explanation in the appreciation of motions and amendments. This does not mean that we will refrain from the desired change, but it may help us to make a good choice as a Chamber. I think everyone sees these implementation problems. In fact, at the end of this introduction, I would also like to appeal to the Cabinet and Chamber to continue, in addition to its content, the debate on the simplicity and feasibility of tax laws and regulations and to give more weight to implementation tests and introduction tests for a better tax system in which simplicity and feasibility become the rule and not the exceptions. Mr. Chairman. In my further speech I am going to try to stick to the three blocks we have used so far in the treatment, namely living, supplementing and other. The first thing I want to do is live the block. Important living in the block is of course the landlord's tax. This is going to be scaled down as a result of the present legislative proposal. That is a nice step, because it releases investment space that can be used by housing companies and rental companies to build, among other things, new rental homes or improve existing homes. But let's get to the practice and some of the concerns I have. If a company owns more than 50 rental homes, it will be subject to the landlord's tax. These companies are now benefiting because we want them to invest in those homes. But how are we going to make it happen? What is the Minister going to do to get guarantees for this? Suppose the Minister does manage to get maximum commitment from the sector to get to work. Then we are not there yet, because is there enough land for, for example, corporations to be converted? They often work together with municipalities. They will therefore knock on the door of municipalities for land to expand. But they have often stopped active ground politics, to remove financial risks from their accounts. They are already struggling enough to get their budget done. Let's say there's plenty of ground. Are there enough people and materials to live up to the ambitions? Suppose this is the case, do all corporations have sufficient insight into the housing needs of the people in their region? In other words: how do we ensure that there is built as needed? In short, has the Minister actually thought about a clear plan, with the right framework conditions, so that new and better housing can actually be realized? Now I'm probleming. I do know that, but it is also the reality for a part. Pumping money into a system alone is not enough guarantee of success. I am therefore curious to see what the Minister expects of this measure in practice. Don't get me wrong: I really think we should lower the landlord's tax. As far as the CDA is concerned, this charge may be abolished, provided performance agreements are firmly anchored. So not only write down appointments, but also check for compliance. As far as we are concerned, fines may also be imposed in the event of negligence or the use of additional funds, not for the purpose for which we would like them to be assigned as Chambers. I would like to hear how the Minister looks at this and how she sees it. Then add up the block. Last week and weekend I was reading about the supplemental affair again. It remains a dossier whose end is unfortunately not yet in sight. I read an article from a few months ago. One sentence touched me. "The political edge is off" it said. I am concerned about that, because that absolutely must not happen with regard to this dossier; that we allow our attention to be weakened. The delegation base is not directly related to the surcharge affair, but rather to compensation for errors made by the use of FSV lists. There is a proposal to establish a legal basis for future regulation for compensation in distressing cases, while it is not yet clear what would be included in that future regulation. However, by the time the Secretary of State has poured the settlement into an AMvB, we have four weeks to respond to that concept of AMvB. Then all we can do is table a motion to amend it. As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't feel firm enough. That is why I have tabled an amendment to allow the House to adopt legislation if the House does not agree with the content. In order to be able to properly assess the content, it is necessary to have the opinion of the Council of State. The Secretary of State only gives the formalistic answer to all our questions about this: no, that is not possible, because the Act on the Council of State states that I publish the opinion at the same time as the AMvB is published in the Official Journal. But, Secretary of State, I really want more realism here instead of formalism. The article of law referred to by the Secretary of State dates back to the 1990s. Since then, the means of the AMvB has become much more common. As far as I am concerned, the article is out of date. Moreover, in view of the Open Government Act, including all the Council of State's opinions from 1 May 2022 two weeks after they are adopted, they are simply published on the Council of State's website. From May, so in six months, we can see those opinions on an AMvB in time. Then what are we talking about? I don't see the problem. The Council of State's opinion is just a few weeks in advance on the Secretary of State's office, because it has to be incorporated into the final version of the AMvB. It feels a bit like that purple crocodile from the advertising of a certain insurance company. I'm sure many of you know them. A mother and her little girl are standing in front of the front desk by the pool. She was looking for her purple crocodile, who stood behind that man. The mother needs to fill out multiple forms and can come back tomorrow. "But there it is," says the girl. "Yes, there he is," replied the desk clerk. Let us not turn this request into a purple crocodile, but just deal with it in a realistic and practical way. Can the Secretary of State undertake to consult with the Council of State on a temporary practical solution in anticipation of the Open Government Act? A brief question on the provision of data to childcare institutions. We believe that the proposal improves the current system. Parents are relieved and better informed. But again, my question. Suggestions have been made by several parties to put parents even more in the lead and to improve and clarify the process a little further on the underparts. What exactly does the Secretary of State take on board of all these suggestions and what not? Then we also know where we stand and what we might say yes to. Then there's the other block. We have talked a lot about this over the past week, but I would like to draw attention once again to a number of specific issues. We also talked in the debate about good tax morals and what is needed for that. One of the things that, as far as we are concerned, undermines tax morality is the huge difference in marginal pressure, as I mentioned in my introduction. It is still extremely high for some incomes, as we can see again from the income policy in the Tax Plan. We're taking steps, but we're not there yet. We also understand that it is complex, but with that it is also challenging to do something about it. In the tables we see that the marginal pressure for households with an income between €20,000 and €40,000 is still far too high, leading to inequality, and that people who are going to work more are not rewarded. We see it as a common challenge to take further steps here. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what his vision is, what he wants to do about it. Another point that affects tax morals, namely the quality and controllability of legislation. In a number of cases, the Tax Plan package clearly shows that the Tax Administration has little insight into the operation of the measures and that there are therefore problems with the controllability and understanding of the effectiveness of the measures. Let me give you a few examples. I am starting with the exception to the tax partnership for the application of the IACK. Our question was whether it could be adequately checked. The message is that it is still very unclear how the measure is going to work out and whether the control is sufficient. In the work-cost scheme for home working, another complex addition has been made based on an estimate in corona time of the number of people expected to continue working at home, not taking into account the current situation. A horizon clause does not even seem necessary to the Secretary of State, which could create uncertainty. That is why we have also tabled the amendment tabled by the Christian Union on the addition of such a horizon clause. Then I will immediately make the bridge with the stock option rights scheme, which also lacks a clear view of how it works and how it works. In this proposal, we first see a clear tension between the objective and its implementation. We support the objective. I mean that start-ups and scale-ups and their employees do not encounter liquidity problems when they have to pay tax on the equity option rights exercised. We understand very well the importance of this scheme for start-ups and scale-ups. However, for a number of other reasons, we have a great deal of difficulty with the measure, not only because it applies to the intended start-ups and scale-ups, because it introduces a new uncertainty and complexity into the already complex system, because it is not verifiable for the Tax Administration, because the measure is only limited in terms of competitiveness in the international context and because it has not yet started to monitor properly whether that measure is going to have the intended effect at all. All of this goes against the quality and against good and simple legislation that we want to pursue. Especially at that last point, the monitoring, we want to have more comfort. Therefore, we would like to ask the Secretary of State to set up a monitoring system as soon as possible, together with the sectors concerned, in which feedback from these sectors is kept and reported annually to the Chamber. In this way we hope to gain insight on a number of points. How many companies use such a measure? Are these the start-ups and scale-ups in particular or are they other types of companies? Is the scheme at all workable or too complex? And where are improvement points? We would like to see a review of the effectiveness of the measure taken three years after its entry into force. If not, we need to see how we can improve it. Let me turn to the final question on this part: is it really not possible to make the regulation less generic and yet to focus a little more on what we actually intended it for? What is also important for tax morals is to avoid tax avoidance by companies. This has been a step forward in recent years. The Secretary of State is talking about big steps. We agree, but we're not there yet. Indeed, many more steps will be taken in the coming years. The OECD and the EU are also preparing for this at the moment. We ask ourselves whether you can ever close everything up with legislation, and whether that is desirable. We also believe that a part of the responsibility to show moral behavior should lie with the companies themselves. We believe there is still much to develop in terms of tax governance. Let companies themselves think about tax morals and what principles they want to apply in practice. In this respect, we are very curious about the results of the VNO-NCW initiative to develop a tax governance code together with stakeholders from science, trade unions and NGOs. Does the Secretary of State also see opportunities on the part of the government to help develop and support tax governance, for example by also paying attention to this in the supervision of the Tax Administration? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the child of our Secretary of State, namely the levying on the basis of real returns in box 3. The outline note announced will follow shortly. The Secretary of State has already issued a profit warning about the entry into force, which will be delayed for a while; a time limit that will give me abdominal pain, because time does not work in our favor in this case. Last week, the AG wrote that the box 3 system at system level is unjustified. And if the Supreme Court takes over the judgment, then the Tax Administration faces a major problem because all objections require a review of the attacks. Now we are curious: will the Secretary of State only review the attacks of people who have objected or simply of all the people with a box 3 attack who would turn out to be unjustified after such a ruling by the Supreme Court? We'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he intends to deal with this. I also have a short question about the method of calculating box 3 for the return on real estate that is now recorded in the OFM. The Secretary of State says here that it is only a clarification of what is already in the law, but we do not see that method of calculation very clearly in the law. It seems more like an interpretation of the legal text that is now being incorporated into the law. Can the Secretary of State explain again whether this is indeed a substantive change to the law? I've got two more points. The first point is the export of electric cars. The Netherlands has relatively many electric cars, partly due to a broadly stimulating policy. We understand that many add-on periods have not yet ended and that there may not yet be a view on how many cars will then disappear abroad. But we're getting signals and we're really afraid it's gonna happen. It is easy to transport a car for a good price abroad after those five years, if there is more demand for it because there are even fewer electric cars on that market. Can the Secretary of State continue to monitor this closely and consider possible actions to ensure that we are not in the process of stimulating electric transport for nothing because it is about to drain away instead of getting the cars on the second hand market, what is our objective? Finally, the energy bill. 3.2 billion to support residents and thus partially offset the huge increase in the energy bill is a good initiative. As I mentioned in the third term of the Financial Reviews, we have difficulty with the generic nature of the proposal. The debate talked about guns and mosquitoes and throwing money into the air unfocused. That's why the motion along with D66 to get a slightly more focused distribution on this. And yes, that creates complexity in the execution. I am well aware of that and I really should not want to do so, especially after my plea of almost twenty minutes. But I've also talked about carrying. Now I have to make the choice between agreeing to a generic measure that is perhaps simple in its implementation, but not effective enough, or the capacity debate. It is not for nothing that we have talked several times about our great concerns about this increase, especially for our hard-working middle class but also for those who live in energy poverty. That is why I support this motion. This is a nice illustration of a field of tension that we sometimes stand for and which we want to deal with carefully. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter stating that the motion will be worked out. Indeed, the discussion or and how has been conducted here. We assume that there will be an answer to the question of how we are going to do that. I hope in the most effective way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u96	Of course, I fully agree with the latter, but you will understand that. I want to go back in time, I think about six, seven minutes, because I was standing here a little earlier. It was about an amendment by Mrs Van Dijk on home working arrangements and the horizontal clause. I meant it. I'll take a look at Mrs Van Dijk's description of 2025. My first question to Mrs Van Dijk is also in the context of climate change and the burden on public transport, roads and, let me add, the cycle paths. Now that we also see that people are going to work more and more at home not only in corona time but also in the future, should we not make it easier for employers and employees to make tax arrangements for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u97	Yes, we are in favour of an arrangement, but we think it is even better if it is based on reality. That is why we think it is important to include this clause in the horizon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u98	I can join that first one. Can Mrs Van Dijk not withdraw that amendment and ask for an evaluation? I think that's what we want. As far as I am concerned, this evaluation should be made faster than in 2025. I would also like to look at the Secretary of State for the sake of feasibility. But a horizon clause is something else, and I do not think it is the right instrument to achieve the objective that Mrs Van Dijk wants to achieve. It's not appropriate to see if it does what it has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u99	Mr Grinwis has taken the initiative and I submit the amendment. I think that's what I said. So I am not going to say that we are withdrawing the amendment, because I think I should at least discuss it with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u100	Behind me I hear Mr Grinwis say from his chair: I am not going to do that. Let me bring in the financial engineering as well. A horizon clause means that you have to reset your budget. If we think that we should encourage work at home more now, but also in the future, if we want roads and trains to be calmer, and people can work partly at home and partly in the office, then we must have such an arrangement. I think one of the lessons of this corona time was that part of working at home is a good way forward. Partly working at home is nice, but always working at home is not; let me say that right away. And if we have to have such an arrangement, it is much better to go for such an evaluation than for a horizon determination. The last thing you need to do is re-feed the whole rigging. This is a policy that I think we simply want to pursue. Perhaps we want to tighten it up, but at least we want to continue it, even in the future. Does Mrs Van Dijk agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u101	Well, I disagree. During the two days we have had on this subject, I have already indicated that certain assumptions have been made. But in practice, you see quite different developments. So yes, we want to stimulate it, that's right. But we should not close our eyes to what is actually going to happen. And we are committed to determining on the basis of that reality what such a regulation should look like. So that's where we're just differences of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u102	One final comment on this. D66 really doesn't see it that way. In corona time, people were forced to work at home. Many people indicate that they want to continue to do so in the future, albeit for some time. That is a good development. But when people work at home, the stove is on all day. When people work at home, they have to make themselves a cup of coffee. It costs money. That is what this regulation is for. That problem will not be reduced in the future. Does Mrs Van Dijk at least agree with me? The costs for the employee and the employer will remain if you start working at home instead of at the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u103	That is why I am not opposed to this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u104	Once again, I am surprised to hear Mrs Van Dijk speak of carrying capacity. It makes me happy, too. "Carrying power for the middle class" was, in my opinion, the exact words. I don't understand why the CDA has always made different choices in recent years. Because the heat pump is not bought by the middle class, but by D66-pipo's. And this cabinet is going to support those people with the electricity, and it doesn't support the ordinary Dutchman, who still just burns on gas. The Tesla is not bought by the ordinary middle class; that car is driven by the D66 target group again. And the cost of all these tax advantages for electric cars is allowed to pay the ordinary Dutchman again. So if Mrs. Van Dijk is talking about carrying capacity... Then why does she support the policy that benefits the richer people, not the ordinary Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u105	In my view, I have made a number of comments today which show that I am really looking more broadly than just at that target group. We've already talked about the energy bill. And Mr Mulder is talking about those expensive electric cars. If there is never going to be a second-hand market for these cars, they will certainly not be accessible to a target group other than the one Mr Mulder is talking about. So why have these schemes always been supported in the past? I don't know. All I know is I see marginal pressure plates doing weird things. That is what we discussed in the debate. And I broke my head about it, too. It's not so easy that you could fix it by turning one button. It's just not that easy. So I think we should face the challenge together. On the one hand, we need to simplify, clarify things. On the other hand, we must try to get a picture of the capacity in which you and I at least have the feeling: this is more the reality of the Netherlands that we would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u106	At least the CDA is honest, unlike D66 net. You say honestly: I don't know why we make those choices. D66 arrived with a few bridges. If you don't know what button you want to turn, wouldn't it be nice for us to try and figure that out together? I have a number of proposals for this. I'll file a few motions. I hope you will support them, because they benefit the common Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u107	I think I indicated: let's make things simpler and clearer with each other, so that it also becomes easier to turn certain buttons and we know what their effect is. So I look forward to having those debates with you in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u108	I have taken some initiatives with the CDA at home together with Mr Ronnes. How does the CDA spokesman see the housing budget, also in relation to the landlord tax and the Tax Plan, coming through both Chambers of the States General? Is she still a little anxious to achieve some more of the CDA's wishes, such as around the housing fund, the landlord's levy, the house milkers' fine? Or is she looking more to the right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u109	No, I am actually looking more at my colleague who is going to do this budget. You know our position on the landlord's tax. We are glad that we can take a first step in this, but you also know that it is a very faint answer, but I am just going to give it; I thought Mr Grinwis said it nicely in a debate that I cannot eat out of two pigeons at the moment and cannot change anything on the one hand, while I am talking about it on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u110	I understand that for certain things that are on the formation table, but we are also simply in budgetary treatment. The cover, the taxes we collect for the wishes we have for expenditure, is arranged here. We'll vote on that on Thursday. It's really not that crazy to say that the housing budget gets through here with the 77 or so how many are there? Seventy-eight, 79 seats, but probably not in the First Chamber. Last year we discussed this very openly in a debate. Or does the CDA say: if that car hits the wall, we'll see what happens and we'll see what comes out at the formation table? You're a missionary MP. You may be able to achieve what you want. I'd like to invite you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u111	You can certainly invite that, but well, I think you also understand very well what position I am in right now. I'd just like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u112	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Maatoug from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It is a substitute, but it has pleased us with a large number of amendments, as if it has been doing so for many years. I'm gonna give you the middle position of the interruptions: Edgar Mulder five, the SP at each end six, Nijboer six, Maatoug five, Stoffer two, Raffle three. I call Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I have here on my cheating note, and I am proud to say that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. And I have here that I must try to speak quietly, but I also feel the rush you are in towards dinner break. So for the people at home: if it goes too fast...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u114	It's my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u115	...know that this time it was the chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u116	Well, that's good again!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u117	...and not the quick speaking of myself. Mr. Chairman. I liked how we started this debate, because it was also about what politics is. It was about how it can be boring and maybe it's a good thing it's boring, but basically it's about making political choices. No matter how good we are at talking in this room, the magic happens at the time we choose. We have all been elected here to make choices on behalf of all the Dutch who make the world a better place. That's what we do with our own passion and worldviews. Over the past few months, I think that perhaps we should do a little more and talk a little less; perhaps that will also improve confidence in politics. As a substitute, I notice something. I am actually SZW spokesperson, and if I hear the argument again today to give a little more space to one's own responsibility, then I feel a discrepancy with how we do that in social security and in a lot of SZW legislation. As I walked here, I saw another NOS report on WIA legislation, which we apply very tightly. I see it in the Participation Act. We never really say there: let's trust people a little. I see a difference there and I thought: I share that observation. Then come and live. I'm glad we're talking about that today. Several speakers have already said that the tax system is extremely important. That says a lot about what we consider important in our society. Back in the day, I'd be talking to people after... it's always been said: work has to pay. So do we, very much so. But now there is no longer any way to work against the unearned income that people come to blow because they have much more power. The tax burden on labour has increased over the last 20 years, while capital charges have fallen over the last 20 years. Houses are a very important need for life, as Mrs Beckerman said, but they have become an investment object. Instead of slowing it down, our tax system encourages it. We even applaud it and make it more attractive. The government feels it is necessary to levy taxes on social housing, but in antisocial housing, pawnshops can do whatever they want. To be perfectly honest, GroenLinks can't get her head around that. If the coalition parties, which are currently negotiating, are aware of the extent of the capital crisis, I am extremely pleased with the words of Mr D66.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yet here we are as a missionary chamber. We've been sent out by all the people who voted for us to make plans. Henk Nijboer of the PvdA also said: there is a housing crisis going on. We can say nice words about that and we can say how intense that is, but in the meantime people don't have a roof over their heads, prices rise and we see very big bottlenecks. And we can do something about that, us as Chamber and the Cabinet. But I am particularly addressing colleagues from the political groups. You can look at each other here as a spokesperson, but you can also look at each other in the group meeting and say that we could arrange this, as we did at the APB. First of all, let's get the landlord's tax off the table. I just learned something about compromise. Sometimes you just have to listen to the majority. Sometimes that's really nice, because maybe they're just right. We know all parties are for this, so it's just time for the VVD to give up its sacred cottage. What is also very important to us is that foreign investors in fiscal investment institutions simply start paying tax on the sales profits of Dutch real estate. That is why I am very proud that we have tabled an amendment together with the PvdA, Volt, DENK and Mr Omtzigt. Then the jubelton, which was just mentioned. We need to get him off the table as soon as possible. It is not to be explained that we give children of wealthy parents a little tax support, which is even from the own assessment of the Cabinet.................................................................................................................................................................................. This is done through the cohabitation penalty, which is also called the 'cost sharing standard'. The money from the jubelton could be used for that. I am very pleased that my colleagues from the PvdA, Volt and DENK support and support the amendment. Mr. Chairman. The delegation clause has been mentioned several times by colleagues, because this is not the first debate we have. We've had two good pieces of legislation. I'm a substitute on this file, and in the three weeks I've been doing this, I've seen three notes of amendment. It's really made us feel dizzy. It takes a long time and it takes us a lot of effort to understand what's going on. I would like to say to the cabinet that we understand the dilemma very well, because we, as a group, also have this dilemma. On the one hand, we want to make a huge hurry. Many colleagues have already said that it is terrible what the government has done to people. Not a word I say can make that any less. But at the same time, we want to be accurate. How do you balance that? It is very important for us to be able to weigh up the delegation clause that is now before us. We're gonna keep jigsaw puzzles on that. What exactly is the point? I am referring not only to the legal framework, but also to its content. The debates we are having here about power and counterpower are not just about the process being good. We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believe that the debate we are having here in the Chamber also improves the content, including the arrangements underneath. We don't have enough information to assess that right now. It is therefore extremely difficult for us to know what we say yes or no to. I therefore hope that the cabinet will be able to clarify this, because that is relevant for us to be able to assess this law. Something has already been said about the Tax Adjustment Act. You were not there, Mr President, but many critical questions were raised in the legislative consultation. As I said just now in the interrupting debate, the Tax Administration's execution test was also extremely critical. The supplementary written answers have not been able to further convince my group of the usefulness of this legislative proposal. We will therefore vote against this bill. I hope that the other groups take the red flag of the Tax Administration equally seriously and that we can use this 11 FTE in a better way with the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u118	Just for the imagery, because I hear "red flag." I look at the advice and see a green flag, I see a number of yellow flags and I see one red flag. At the bottom of the text, with the conclusions, is: "executable'. Does GroenLinks agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u119	The legislative consultation also stated that it was about the overall weighting. It is therefore very nice that you ask this question, because I can clarify that. In this case, this is also the ratio with regard to the number of FTEs it produces. The discussion we have just had is about the fact that you actually need to look at it much more broadly and that it requires more weight. And then we wonder, with that red flag, whether it's worth the execution capacity, given the other big tasks that lie there. I would therefore like to thank Mr Hammelburg for his clarification. Mr. Chairman. Then tax avoidance. We are all happy with the global approach...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u120	Another question from Mr Hammelburg, his fifth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u121	So let me get this straight: that's 11 FTE, 11 full-time employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u122	Yes. It's not very nice to talk about the past, but you can do a lot with 11 fte. That sounds little, I say to the people at home, but if you see how few people we have, for example, for the enforcement of thezzp regulation, then perhaps we can use that 11 fte differently. Then there's the appeal to the cabinet about tax avoidance. We did that in the WHO, but I thought I would do that again here in the plenary. We call on the Cabinet to work out the global plans as effectively as possible at European and national level, avoiding tax avoidance as much as possible. But there is still plenty to improve at national level. If the cabinet continues to call for top priority to be given to tackling tax avoidance, I expect it to do everything it can to close the gaps in our joint tax laws. I therefore expect the cabinet to welcome the strengthening of the Chamber, which will further tackle tax avoidance. That is why, together with colleagues, I have tabled a number of amendments to improve legislation. This starts with combating the cutting-up of bv's, together with the PvdA, Volt, DENK and Mr Omtzigt. Another amendment, together with PvdA, Volt, DENK and Mr Omtzigt, aims to close the gaps in the dividend tax when purchasing own shares. Another amendment aims to make cutting less attractive by not increasing disk limits in the Vpb. This amendment is together with the PvdA, Volt, DENK, Omtzigt and the SP. However, I would like to say a few words about the certainty in the debate we have just had. That's not because I think it's true or because I made it up. But if we look very closely at the analysis that the cabinet itself has made, also earlier in the written reply, and if we look at what various researchers are saying to us, and if we look at the facts at the place where you have arbitration and where there is a difference between two borders, then we see cutting up now, then it is perfectly logical to say: if that hole gets bigger, it will not be less cut-up but it will be more cut-up. What I find complicated about the debate now is the following. I get that you came up with something last year and you had to put that money in a different way. But let's not evaluate it again first, to conclude next year "well, hey, pooh, hey" or in two years "there was more refurbishing, let's do it differently now." Then let's make sense of it and say: we stop that. I also refer to the election programme of my fellow Members from D66, who had an even lower limit in their own plans. So let us keep quiet and pursue sensible policies, not because I say so, but simply because it is sensible. Then specifically the bill against mismatches. I also congratulate the Secretary of State again. It is incredibly good that the proposal is there, but it would be an eternal sin for the Chamber to decide this week to reward large multinationals for decades of bad behavior in the past. If the words of the Secretary of State are correct, then we have improved our lives, but then we must also show that in our actions. The cabinet itself considered that 1 January 2017 was a reasonable proposal. After all, it was in the consultation version. After that, unfortunately, the lobby of business came. I get that, because for no one it's fun to pay taxes. When I look at that date, I think, together with colleagues: we know that companies have a retention obligation, so 2017 seems pretty feasible. Since 1 January 2017, there is DAC 3, which enables the automatic exchange of this data between European countries. Since 2015 we have been talking about BEPS, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. The reports were coming and we supported them all the time, which allowed companies to know that tax fun would end. And then there is the fact that, in every rule we issue, we say very neatly and clearly that legislation can change. So it's a risk you could estimate. We are therefore tabling this amendment in order to restore the legislative proposal to the way it was presented with the draft legislative proposal. I do this together with the colleagues from SP, PvdA, Volt, DENK and colleague Omtzigt. Mr. Chairman. In addition, we do not want the legislative proposal to be easily bypassed by e.g. putting a company in Luxembourg in the construction. That is why we are adding an anti-abuse measure to the bill through the amendment that we are tabling together with DENK, Volt and the PvdA. We also have an amendment which clarifies when there is a merger or division. We do this together with the groups of Volt, DENK and the PvdA. Finally, Mr President. In the WHO we talked about other forms of double non-taxation. I would like to ask the cabinet: what is it going to do not to make it possible? What's the plan? Really last but not least, Mr. Chairman. I've got another 1.34 minutes on my counter. I hope I say this at a kind of moderate pace and that it's kind of followable, but then we might be able to dine faster. Compliments to Bureau for Legislation here in the Chamber and thanks for the technical support for the amendments. Looks like we're just filing these things, but we've been working on them for weeks. We are also technically supported by the Ministry. We're looking at quick scans. We weigh things. Some things we don't file. I think that is important to say, because it is not just a list we are reading. There's a lot of work in there from a lot of people, and I just wanted to say thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u123	Here's to it. Thank you very much. Then the next speaker will be Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union Group. I am doing well with my intention to conclude this debate before dinner break, but then we must keep it sharp. I know that there is a great desire to meet about the Tax Plan in Box K until far after midnight, but I am not going to give in to that pressure. I call Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u124	Mr. Chairman. The Tax Administration is like a rusty car: written off by many, rattled by some, but meanwhile it is the service that collects hundreds of billions of taxes annually. We simply cannot do without this unique and crucial service. But precisely because the Tax Administration is so crucial and so unique and precisely because I have faith in the thousands of employees who work there with heart and soul, it pains me that it has gone so wrong with the surcharge system. That is why I am so disappointed that ICT is so neglected that thorough reforms cannot be carried out quickly. Mr Inge van Dijk has already gone into this in detail and I agree with her words. Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed all the proposals in detail in the legislative consultation. I'm not going to do that all over again, but I'm going to do a little bit on some points. First of all, the landlord levy. At the end of this year, the State raised 13 billion euros in landlord tax. Mr Beckerman mentioned that amount until now quite exactly to about right behind the decimal place. For the first time since the introduction almost nine years ago, we are taking a big bite out of the tax plan that was amended after the Hermans motion, a total of EUR 831 million. I don't think that's a trifle. We're gonna do that with a VVD motion. Taking hundreds of millions from the landlord levy offers perspective, I say to Mr Aartsen. Mr. Chairman. We do this with performance agreements on housing and sustainability. At least that's what we're being asked for in a motion. My question to the Minister is: what exactly is the situation with that part of the Hermans motion? After all, it is essential that affordable housing be added and that social housing be isolated with bad labels. That is certainly necessary now that the gas price is so much higher and the Scheme Reduction Rental Tax Sustainability so is the scheme, the Scheme Reduction Rental Tax Sustainability has stopped as of 1 October last. Mr. Chairman. During the legislative consultation, I was particularly surprised at the gap between the estimation and the realization. That's really a megahole in the landlord's tax for the last couple of years. Of course, that has everything to do with the winding-up housing market and house prices. Now I know that the landlord tax is not a target tax or something like that, with a pre-seated desired return, but it remains odd to discuss a tax plan based on a 7.8% WPA increase, while we already knew in June that it will certainly be 1.5% more. Then it was already estimated by the Evaluation Room that it would be around 9% to 9.5%. However, changing this now creates an equal risk of coverage. What does the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State look like against a volatile basis like that of the World War II? Shouldn't there be an automatic correction, like the municipal ozb, real estate tax? And shouldn't estimates be recalibrated just before Prince's Day, just in the light of actuality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u125	I could hardly think of a better advertisement for my amendment than what Mr Grinwis has just said. So I ask him: how does he stand on the other side? When I hear him like that, it can't be any different than that positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u126	I will not start immediately with: the wish is the father of thought. If Mr Nijboer had listened carefully, he would also have heard me say that the landlord levy is not a target tax with a pre-clicked revenue. In other words, because of the chosen basis, the yield can vary and there is no automatic correction mechanism, unlike for municipalities on the ozb. If you live in a good municipality, the IZB tax rate goes down as the WWZ rises rapidly, so that the yield does not rise too much and there is not too much charge increase. Unfortunately, we don't have that system at the landlord's tax. If you click on it, as Mr Nijboer does in his amendment, you will actually create a problem of coverage. I think his amendment is super-sympathetic, but at the same time I ask the cabinet, the trade union K, how it sees it. Is there indeed a cover issue for Mr Nijboer's amendment in the future? If it's not, it's a piece of cake. If that is the case, then perhaps we should negotiate a little harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u127	Fine, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u128	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the reduction of the energy tax. In September and October the gas price rose rapidly. The cabinet was also quite quick to come up with a compensation package; although a shot of hail, for one too little and for the other a little too much, but still. However, the first proposal was not in line with the Hermans motion. In the meantime, following a motion by Mr Stoffer and myself, this has been repaired with the fourth letter of amendment. Thank you for the speedy implementation of our motion. Now a catering establishment, a furniture maker or a greenhouse gardener also has something to do with the compensation package of the cabinet and that was not the case. Thank you for that. Tax avoidance. By countering mismatches in this Tax Plan package, the Secretary of State is paying extra attention to his fight against tax avoidance. Hail for that. On the way to papers with an exotic name, starting with a P, but this time without Dutch. At the same time, with the changes in corporate taxation in our own country, we may be attracting more tax avoidance than ever before; colleagues have already spoken about it. 15% in the first disc up to €395,000 and then a jump to 25.8%. Doesn't this make the thief the opportunity? Isn't it too attractive to cut a now large e.g. into smaller ones? I'd like a reflection from the Secretary of State on this. How will he keep up with the fact that due to the long first disc and due to the large gap there will be no additional tax avoidance with the cut-up movements already explained by colleagues? Then there is the homework allowance, to which Mr Hammelburg almost wasted his last interruption, I believe. During the legislative consultation I discussed this sympathetic, but also complex, homework allowance, for a cup of coffee and a roll of toilet paper. The working costs scheme will now be evaluated in 2023 or 2024, including this new homework allowance. That seems to me to be a good time to keep everything under review and not simply march on with all sympathetic proposals and good intentions, which in the meantime makes the system more complex and complex and complex. That is why I and Mr Inge van Dijk have tabled an amendment with a horizontal clause for 2025, so there is a great deal of time to keep everything under review. If it is indeed important that there should be a homework allowance, in one way or another, then there is also every opportunity to re-introduce it in 2025. Then there's the VAT. One of the prehistoric systems at the Tax Administration is the system by which we determine and collect VAT. Changing the system is difficult. A small question here. What is the state secretary's struggle in Europe to exempt purchases in recycled shops from VAT? In April I tabled a motion on this subject, which was also adopted. Then you hardly ever get back to something like an effort in Europe. Still a kind of Bermuda Triangle, with all kinds of great efforts. We're against the disposable company, aren't we? We want to repair and reuse. We want to make that more attractive, but in the meantime you have to tap VAT for the second time if you buy something from the cycle. In conclusion. At the VAT point I touched on one of the 900 ICT applications of the Tax Administration, in this case a system from 1982 that is desperately needed for renewal. That underlines the point I started with: the Tax Administration is squeaking and cracking on all sides. When will the Tax Administration stop squeaking and cracking like a rusty car, but walk like a sunshine, and above all: what is needed? That was my final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u129	Thank you. Mr Van Raan from the Group of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Two topics: the fossil subsidies and the premium affair. At the moment, the climate summit in Glasgow is going on, and that is where the cabinet actually appears to be as volatile as the gas market. Yesterday, the Secretary of State sent out the right news by letter, namely that the Netherlands is still joining the leading group that wants to stop the fossil subsidies. Mr President, I would like to put a dilemma to you. Should I now be glad that the cabinet has realised that it was wrong; better in half than in complete error? Or should I conclude that the cabinet is finally doing the right thing, which it hasn't done for years? In other words, do you reward the partner who fails to beat his other partner? A dilemma, Mr. Chairman. In any case, the last word has not yet been said. But we will discuss it further in the Committee debate on Export Credit Insurance. In any case, I have rarely read such a letter from the cabinet so quickly, so I should like to congratulate you on that. Mr. Chairman. In Glasgow it was about fossil subsidies abroad. Today in the Chamber I want to talk about fossil subsidies in the interior. Anti-climate measures are still more important every year than climate measures. Estimates range from 8.3 to 17.5 billion. Put that against the 6.8 billion for the climate. This also excludes the billion-dollar support for KLM and the 3.2 billion that the cabinet is now giving to compensate households and businesses. Due to the way in which the government has shaped the high gas price subsidy, it also seems to have characteristics of a fossil subsidy. Mr. Chairman. Why does the Secretary of State still support oil and gas with Dutch tax money? It was a good idea in the 1950s to stimulate that industry, but now stopping it is one of the most powerful ways to act for the climate. I can see that Europe is playing a crucial role in this, but does the Secretary of State agree that we should at least take those measures that we can take in the Netherlands for climate change? Last year, the Secretary of State sent a large number of reports to the Chamber with building blocks for a better tax system. One of these reports deals with tax greening and basic erosion. Why do we see so little of that? The argument "we are expelled" is hardly valid, because we know that it is likely that the same cabinet will be in office. But anyway, when the Secretary of State was still a missionary, he had already started that fiscal greening. So why doesn't he continue the missionary cabinet line? Why does he continue to pursue the policy of cutting-to-the-branch, while the Council of State also indicates that this is not effective? Mr. Chairman. Why is climate and energy exploration not integrated into the Tax Plan? Why are we only getting an overview of the fiscal effects of the Tax Plan? That's kind of weird when you're doing tax greening. Then you actually want to know what the expected results are in terms of CO. So when I get offered the tax plan, I actually want to know how much CO the tax plan will get. Apparently, the Secretary of State can answer that question. This was demonstrated by the written reply to the questions. Indeed, he writes that the national CO levy and the SDE++ will lead to a trend break in industrial policy and that the expected reduction is between 9 and 16 megatons of CO. So it is possible to make estimates of that. Mr. Chairman. Just going through those taxes and tax measures that do allow us to indicate that CO reduction. A motion has now been passed which now requires the cabinet to count on the actual emissions of woody biomass burning. As far as I know, that motion is not yet being carried out, although an approximate estimate could be made. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send a new overview of the annual expected CO reduction to which this Tax Plan leads and into which emissions of the biomass burned are also taken into account? Mr. Chairman. There is another interesting relationship between the SDE++ and the CO levy. While woody biomass is heavily subsidised, the CO emissions released by burning woody biomass are not covered by the CO levy. Does the Secretary of State agree that it makes no difference to the climate where emissions come from? That is why we have also prepared an amendment to bring woody biomass emissions under the CO levy. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the energy price compensation package. The cabinet pays 3.2 billion to compensate households and businesses through the energy bill. The fourth letter of amendment is now shifting 125 million from the richest households to energy-intensive SMEs. That's a choice. We in the Chamber have also asked for more differentiation, but is it true that in this case the dairy industry and the paper industry will receive about 1,000% more compared to what was first conceived? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We seriously wonder whether the conditions for savings and/or sustainability can also be attached to them. I'll wait. That's not a problem. I'd rather wait until the Secretary of State listens, than... we're going to give SMEs extra support now. That sounds like a good idea in itself. We want to look at this, but it is important that the same SMEs meet the conditions, for example the conditions for saving and sustainability. Are there, for example, companies between which the savings obligation has not been met in recent years? Then why should we subsidise them now? Is there any way to exclude that type of company? I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. Instead of fiscal greening, it seems that more and more fossil subsidies have been added, both in size and in number. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? If not, can he at least provide an overview showing that that is not the case? Of course, the Netherlands should have stopped funding fossil fuels long ago. It is not in line with Paris, it is not in line with the OECD's recommendations and it is not even in line with the wishes of the Chamber. I therefore have a number of amendments to delete at least a number of fossil subsidies which the Ministry of EZK itself considers to be a fossil subsidy. Mr. Chairman. Fiscal greening is not only about stopping fossil subsidies, but also about stopping behaviour that is unsustainable and harmful to biodiversity. In 1975, the VAT rate on ornamental products, such as flower bulbs, flowers and plants, was reduced from 21% to 9%. We've asked questions about this before. The cabinet acknowledges that this has been done to make these products affordable and to stimulate turnover and employment in horticulture. I would like to emphasise that the insights about ornamental products have changed. For these luxury products a lot of agricultural poison is used and the soil is exhausted. Moreover, the promotion of ornamental cultivation is at the expense of the space for food horticulture. I would like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks of a return of ornamental farming to the general VAT rate of 21%. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the supplemental affair. There seems to be a need for a generous compensation scheme for people who have been mistreated by an inspector, thanks to the provisions of the delegation. It concerns the General Law on State Taxes and the Recovery Act 1990. So I understand that commitment, but the question must always be: is this the way to help disabled parents of the supplement disaster? Some of it's probably true. But how often exactly does this kind of damage fall within this scheme? And what are the chances that the damage caused by this well-intentioned differentiation is exactly between ship and ship? And don't expectations that don't come true cause any more damage? What if there's an unreasonable act, that's common as we all know, but whoever didn't happen to have a business relationship with a tax inspector? Think of a child or a partner. In short, is it not better to make a general arrangement, as the Council of State also writes? Maybe it's better to go back to the drawing board. Or does the Secretary of State say that for the broad application we will amend other laws? And, if so, what laws would that be? I'd like an answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u131	Thank you. Then Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u132	Mr. Chairman. When there was no federal government in Belgium more than ten years ago after one year of negotiations, the Belgians were very happy. Because a outgoing government should not introduce or increase taxes. For the Belgians, the formation could not last long enough. It was an effective means against the tax administration, which is seen by Belgians as a domestic occupier. Unfortunately, the Dutch are unlucky. The Dutch are unlucky, I should say. With this Tax Plan we decide on no less than nine laws that will enter into force in January. Demissionary or missionary, it doesn't matter. The cabinet has found a new term: policy-slide. I find another term more striking: policy-cunning. The cabinet plays billiards via the outside band and through institutions. Mr. Chairman. JA21 is fiscally conservative. We don't want people paying blue on all kinds of taxes and that pays off. People need to have more left by the end of the month. The Demissionary Cabinet is on mission through others. Take the skimming of the added value of your own home via box 3. In fact, that's a flat power load. The cabinet lets the IMF and De Nederlandsche Bank throw up some balls in that direction, and then make those plans in the week. They'll be in the formation conference. That's policy-cunning. Then there's the mortgage interest deduction. The European Commission is going to mortify, but it lacks the tax authority to do so. But don't worry, because the Commission is demanding the end of the mortgage interest deduction in exchange for 6 billion from the corona-Resolution Fund. In fact, that amount is a cigar from its own box, because the Netherlands guarantees 44 billion in the Recovery Fund of 800 billion. In addition, the Commission intends to reduce the self-employed deduction for self-employed workers more quickly. The mortgage interest deduction ends up on the formation table. You see: in Dutch politics, the fastest way is the detour. Mr. Chairman. Saving has to pay off. In particular, I would like to focus on box 3. It was rightly reported in the last legislative consultation: the Advocate General has cut off the box 3 regime of recent years. People who saved had to pay taxes on returns they didn't make at all. On top of that, customers have to pay more and more to the bank because the interest rate is negative. Graphic return is the philosophy of tax theft. The Advocate General of the Supreme Court has already said: this is a violation of property rights at system level. A very firm conclusion with potentially very big consequences. I have a question for the Secretary of State. Will all those people who have wrongly paid taxes be compensated by the State if the Supreme Court takes the advice of the Advocate General? Mr. Chairman. The Tax Administration has had a turbulent time and is in many cases designated as the cause of evil. See the supplemental affair. But the cause is usually in virtually unenforceable legislation as a result of administrative micromanagement. I would add, for the sake of fairness, that the House of Representatives must also look critically in the mirror here. The Tax Administration is overloaded with impossible orders and then sent into the desert as a scapegoat. For example, how does the Minister consider it feasible to transfer the added value of housing from box 1 to box 3? How will the tax authorities determine and assess all these millions of added value? The remarkable thing about our government is that it produces its own problems. Our policy-cunning government then encounters numerous problems and a hard wall of facts and turns out to have been policy-making afterwards. Finally, Mr President. It has already been said about the landlord levy. Our position on this is clear: the landlord's tax can be totally abolished, on the condition that the corporations with the tax money they save will build a lot of homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u133	Thank you. Then Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u134	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I visited the bakery Van Dijk in Zwartsluis, a beautiful family business where tens of thousands of cookies, cupcakes and I know what more are baked. After such a visit I generally go home with a lot of homework; that was also the case this time. But I also realize every time how important our entrepreneurs are. We need to encourage these kinds of companies and give them the space to undertake. Fortunately, there's a lot of good stuff going on, let's just say that; we saw that last Friday, too, but on all those visits you make, you notice that a lot of SMEs run into problems. One of these problems is the storage of energy taxes, the so-called ODE. It has risen enormously in recent years. We have tried many times to do something about this, first of all with the support of the PVV, Mr Mulder looks at something like this, but fortunately the support is now much wider. I would like to mention Mr Grinwis in this case. Those SME entrepreneurs face the burden, but do not want the energy transition. We noticed that again last Friday. They are allowed to pay, but they are hardly entitled to grant schemes, which are mainly aimed at large companies. Now I know the Secretary of State as someone who doesn't run away from solving things, so that's why I'm asking him the following questions. Could the Secretary of State look into it and ensure that SME entrepreneurs will also receive tax support for investments in the future, especially in terms of sustainability? And above all: how do we get rid of the focus on large companies? I understand you're taking the big hits there, but we also have to consider the baker who wants to buy a new electric oven or the small entrepreneur who wants to buy an electric van. I assume that the Secretary of State is simply shaking something out of his sleeve and saying: that's how we're going to do it in the next cabinet period. We have also seen this in the light of a note made by the CDA, which is simply of great importance to our economy, to our employment and, therefore, to our viability. Mr. Chairman. During the legislative consultation, a number of people have already raised the problem: because some family businesses are already very old, property is fragmented, which means that the company succession scheme can no longer be applied. One way to solve this is to have the BOR applied if, for example, 15% of the family business is owned by one or two families. I've mentioned the family test before. The Secretary of State states that the use of different types of shares could solve this problem. That is true, but that is a complicated and possibly expensive solution. After the questions I put to the Secretary of State, I had my share on family businesses and SMEs. Could the Secretary of State undertake that the proposed family test will be taken into account in the evaluation of the BOR? Perhaps even more important: would he like to talk to family businesses to find a real, not too complicated or expensive solution to this problem? It's supposed to work. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled one amendment this year. That's not that much, but it's a very important one. Indeed, it specifically regulates the step to reduce the tax gap between one and two earners. Three years ago, the SGP called on earners to share their personal story. Those stories inspire me every time I take them out of the closet to expose this injustice again. Families where a partner is sick, where one of the parents wants to but cannot work, or simply families who freely choose how to divide labour and care. We should not punish this tax, but we should encourage it or at least align it with everyone else. Mr. Chairman. The speaker before me already mentioned box 3. Also a few things about it from my point of view, roughly in line with what was appointed from JA21. We are all looking forward to the outline note on the future of box 3, which will be sent to the Chamber at the end of this year. Last week, JA21 also gave that to JA21, other news came in, namely the opinion of the Advocate General to the Supreme Court on box 3. It simply states that the box 3 tax at system level is contrary to the right of ownership and the principle of equality. My question to the Secretary of State is what his response is to that advice. If the Supreme Court follows the advice, the Tax Administration is indeed facing the task of reviewing attacks. My question is therefore what steps are being taken to ensure that taxpayers can be justiced as quickly as possible when the Supreme Court decides to do so. But suppose I can't imagine it, but of course it could be that the Supreme Court doesn't follow the advice. In that case, the cabinet cannot simply ignore it as far as I am concerned. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he agrees with me and, above all, what he will do with this opinion. Mr. Chairman. During the third term of the General Financial Reviews, there has already been extensive talk about the compensation of the high energy bill, but unfortunately the cabinet chooses to shoot a cannon at a mosquito instead of calling it "I'm only going to come up with a targeted approach for households that really need it." It is very good, as Mr Grinwis pointed out, that targeted support for SMEs will be provided in accordance with the motion that Mr Grinwis and I have tabled together. SMEs seemed to have forgotten something in the original plan. One more question to the Secretary of State is what the structural reduction of 300 million in the energy tax will look like. Mr. Chairman. Then the Law is poignant. That's what I'm dealing with, and that's what the SGP's having a hard time with. Indeed, it looks very sympathetic: groups of injured people can quickly receive compensation if the Tax Administration wrongs them or at least acts unjustly; let us call it that. But I'm telling you the truth: I'm leaning towards a counter-vote on this bill. I'll explain, because maybe the Secretary of State can still convince me tomorrow. In my opinion, the biggest advantage of the legislative proposal is the possible speed with which citizens and businesses can be met. In my view, this would take longer if a regular legal treatment per scheme were to take place. But the government still needs to establish a settlement and advice from the Council of State still needs to be sought. I don't think there's any profit in that part. Only the procedure by the Chamber goes faster because the Court does not deal with the proposal in principle. But, of course, if there is a real need, the Chamber can deal with legislative proposals as a matter of urgency. Well, then I'll get right to my objections. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to deal with this tomorrow, which could cause me to be confused about the vote. Those objections are the following. The influence of the Chamber is limited by using an AMvB instead of an ordinary law, which means that there is no proper treatment in the Chamber. That's the first objection. Then there's the second objection. With this bill, the cabinet can introduce regulations with major financial consequences without proper legal treatment, which, in my view, is at odds with the Court's budget law. We as SGP attach great importance to this. But with this bill, the Chamber also gives a huge amount of space to the cabinet to make all kinds of arrangements, in which the Chamber is in fact faced with an actual fact. In my view, these objections do not outweigh the benefits. But once again, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State the response to those objections. Then there's the law on share option rights. I have my doubts about that, too. The call for enforceable legislation has rightly been growing ever stronger lately. With this bill, almost all signals are on red or orange. The Council of State is also strongly critical and even calls for the legislative proposal not to be submitted. I don't think we can just ignore that. Actually, I have a very simple question to the Secretary of State: what are we doing to the Tax Administration with this law? Can the tax authorities actually do it? I support the purpose of the law, let me be clear about that. Of course, we must make our competitive position as strong as possible. At the same time, we must keep an eye on the feasibility. During the Corona Support Packages debates I have sometimes made less complicated proposals, but they were not recommended because they were not feasible. In this legislative proposal, I have the feeling that one way or another the desire is so great that the feasibility may be less urgent. Mr. Chairman. I didn't put many interruptions; one on the VVD. There's something stuck with me that makes me think: it's kind of like you're getting married first and then you're going to see if you're right for each other. I would say, let's do it the other way around in this case. ...No, no, I've been dating for six years, Mr. Chairman. After that, I was fine. That is what I am saying in response to what I hear coming out of the Chamber. It doesn't have to take six years, but I think it's wise to think a little more carefully about it. It was love at first sight, but okay. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about car taxes. The electric car is becoming more and more stimulant. That is good, but that makes the petrol and diesel cars more and more expensive. Unfortunately this is not only due to the towering prices at the pump, which the PVV also referred to and which I think we really need to do something about. It is also due to the ever increasing tax burden on regular cars, petrol and diesel cars. Due to the increasing electrification of the fleet, the bpm yield should in theory also continue to decrease. That's an unsustainable route. My question to the Secretary of State is, in fact, how, if you look at the longer perspective, he will ensure that car taxes are balanced in the future. Then there's my final point. It's about agriculture. I have already mentioned, appointed and referred to it during the WHO. Several agricultural companies want to stop activities, but do not do so because of the high tax rate. That may hinder stopper arrangements, but it also causes you to be impoverished in the outskirts and impoverishment of buildings in the area where those farms are, because the demolition of the stables has negative fiscal consequences. As the Secretary of State has pointed out, there are indeed some arrangements to alleviate the financial pain, but we can see from practice that this is really not enough. Hence my question again: is the Secretary of State prepared to examine the possibilities of reducing the problems of cessation of farming in relation to taxation? I understand that it is not easy and that you have not arranged it from today to tomorrow, but also very much a response. I think this is a nice last question and challenge, so I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u135	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Omtzigt, who can sometimes be a little broad-minded, but today will be extra short, pointy and concise. That's what I feel in my water... Your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u136	Mr. Chairman. I have been looking forward to the treatment of the Tax Plan, not only because it determines how much money we raise and so we actually finance all the hobbies of all our spokesmen in one day, whether it is education, care or weighing or whatever, but also because it is legislation, and there is indeed no limited speaking time under legislation. As a one-man group, I sometimes only have two minutes, and that is just a short one for certain laws. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the tax plan. I actually have a question first. We are going to deal with a tax plan today and tomorrow, but at the same time a new cabinet is being negotiated. I remember a few things from the past. I can remember that a new cabinet, when it comes into office, would soon want to rebuild the budget and the tax laws for billions. So it may well be that we are rejecting everything here today, which will become law in two weeks' time. Because the negotiating parties are exactly the same parties as the parties that are now in the government, that really gives a very strange picture: that parties are going to reject something today and do something in two weeks, and then turn 180 degrees in one go. I would therefore like to give these parties consideration to telling us today and tomorrow what they really intend to do. Because this is not just a talk club; this is the House of Representatives, in which we determine together how we want to proceed. And if it was a week after the elections, then everyone could imagine it, but about ten months after the elections, we need to be able to make fiscal policy. I would therefore also like to ask the government whether it has any indications or has passed on matters for the purposes of the negotiations that we are about to get through with an emergency law. This is a serious point, Mr President. The second serious remark I am somewhat concerned about. It is somewhat less joly than Mr Eppink's comment on this, but I think we should seriously consider whether we want to deal with eight legislative proposals in the coming years. My answer is: no, no, no! I am not saying that because these legislative proposals are necessarily wrong. There are some very good legislative proposals in between, so don't get me wrong. What is the lesson that we could have learned from the supplementing affair and what could we have learned from a number of other things that have gone wrong? That is that we are not actually going through the details of this legislation article by article. Things have gone wrong in the past about the concept of a partner, about all kinds of small things that seemed very small but which caused enormous suffering for individuals. I would suggest that from now on, as a Chamber, we appoint two or three rapporteurs for each tax bill, preferably one from the opposition and one from the coalition. They look carefully on behalf of the Chamber to see whether there are simply implementation problems. This is our core task: legislation, taxation. Take the third note of amendment to the legislative proposal Other tax measures. There were no less than three cases of the exchange of information on the childcare allowance between the childcare institution and the parent. In fact, they couldn't exchange bsn. Well, I can tell you that if they couldn't exchange bsn, the whole thing would have gone wrong. Of course, a number of officials work around the clock during the handling of this Tax Plan. We often don't see them, but they're very busy. And they are doing their best to correct this kind of error even during the legislative process, so that it can be put right in the law. There's no misunderstanding about that. But we in the Chamber have the task of checking that legislation and finding this kind of error. They're not left, they're not right. It doesn't matter; we have good laws to deal with. And we can't. We cannot walk through these laws and see if it will cause problems for a citizen, or if it will cause serious problems for SMEs, whether the Tax Office can actually handle it. And for that, we have to look at ourselves. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction I come to the supplemental scandal. In March, we received a letter of eleven sides with at least thirteen laws that the government had broken. This list was incomplete. I ask the government whether it has completed that list in the last eight months. I asked during the last legislative consultation: where did the Tax Administration not comply with laws? This is a very serious matter. I'm not talking about someone driving a service car 100 miles an hour somewhere in Customs. As you know, we are talking here about the example that the right acquired was not properly implemented in the case of the rent allowance. This means that people whose rent exceeds the rental limit would in certain cases keep a rent supplement from €300 to €400 per month. They're low-income people. But all the rent payments were reduced. The result was expatriation. That doesn't get much attention. Those are laws, like those blacklists that 6,000 people had insight into. I have asked several times: has anyone warned? This is the last time I ask nicely. Over the past four years, has the Data Protection Officer not accidentally put a note somewhere and said that this cannot be done? If so, what happened to that note? We've had all the memo-Palms. I would also like to know if there were any such notes in this case. Are there any more of these big cases? I'm deliberately not talking about little things that go wrong somewhere in an office. This is the case with a service of 30,000 people. But this is really about a legality issue. The second question that hangs on it is: has the Tax Administration committed a tortious act against the citizens? This is important because we are constantly talking about compensation, a compensation for suffering. A compensation for suffering is only something other than compensation for damage you've done because you've done things wrong. I ask: how many people have suffered from a tortuous act of the Tax Administration? I have asked that question several times now, so I just expect an answer to it now. I would also like to know how the government comes out of the next cycle. Each time we find something in the supplemental affair. Besides, I miss Secretary Dekker here tonight. We then make a plan how we're going to help these people, quickly, but then the execution doesn't work. I want to see a plan now. How many children have been placed out of the house? How can these kids get home to their parents? How many kids are we talking about? What's the plan? What's the timeline for that? Do we have to go after it as a room? Or can the government think of this on its own? Let's face it: when the memo Palms was on the table, the government didn't choose to stop the recovery button. No, the government chose not to include those memo-Palms in the archive and to keep them hidden. Next week, PwC has to send a letter with hanging legs that the core of the memo-Palms is reprehensible! It was mentioned by the Secretary of State at the time, but it did not appear in the report. But still someone mentioned it in an interview. When I asked in this room, PwC said, "fuck, nothing happened." Well, I'd like to ask myself why you're going to pay PwC at all, but that's up to you, because that investigation didn't bring what it was supposed to bring, namely the truth. What happened in June 2019? Everything was on the table, but the government decided to set up the Donner Committee, which, by the way, did not speak to any parent and did not stop the recovery, so it simply continued. Members of parliament were sensitized. And the damage was huge. So the last pressing appeal for this government is to just tell the next government everything that's left under the surcharge scandal. Let me point out: in answer to the questions it turned out that the CAF case with which everything started was the case of the child care allowance, which was a small minority of the CAF cases. There are ten kinds of CAF cases. There are a lot of them to tax intermediaries. We've seen some at Oneday. The same thing has happened now, namely: these intermediaries have been brutally attacked, and so have their customers. They suffered a great deal of damage as a result. Can you state, of all ten types, whether these CAF teams have acted lawfully or unlawfully, just as the CAF team on the childcare allowance affair has simply acted unlawfully in a number of cases? Why do I have to ask this question a year after these CAF teams are stopped at all? This is something the IRS could have figured out on its own. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the contents of the Tax Plan. I expect the new government to turn the entire housing budget and tax plan upside down and do something about the landlord tax. In the housing plan, I miss a few things. That is why I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if she is prepared to set targets for the number of homes to be built in the coming years. They haven't been made all the time. We're in the middle of a housing crisis. We have given as an example that the housing corporation for the same property that is rented for the same price pays €1,400 tax and the private landlord pays €120. Those are homes with the average World War II value two years ago. That's just under two tons for that sector and $600 rent. Why don't you ask the housing market to get out of control? If you maintain the 30% rule, you have a category of expats that can spend €500 to €1,000 per month on houses and push the ordinary people out of the neighbourhoods in the centre of Amsterdam, but nowadays throughout the city of Amsterdam. Where is the plan of this government or of the new coalition to use taxation so that social housing becomes interesting, that affordable rentals become interesting? Why do you get a discount on the empty-value ratio? Why don't you have to pay extra taxes when you're constantly offering those short leases? Does the government want to come up with such an integral plan? I am consciously saying that as a one-pitter I am unable to adjust the whole taxation of living, because then I make exactly the mistakes I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. But taxation is not in the mortgage interest deduction as the main driver. That will undoubtedly be discussed. There are a number of drivers that have been known for years and which the government does not intervene on. Does she share that? Is there going to be a plan to make sure that ordinary people, who have a normal existence, can simply find affordable rental or buying houses? Then I would also like to see the problem of the OZB and sports clubs solved. Mr. Chairman. Then the BIK. We've already talked about it. I would like to add my voice to the honourable Member's remarks. I forgot for a moment who said that this could win the prize for the worst proposal ever. I wasn't looking at you, Mr. Grinwis. The Christian Union never liked it. I'm glad it's being abolished, but never again. Fortunately, in this Tax Plan there are a number of plans against tax avoidance. The mismatches shall be adjusted. Together with a number of colleagues in particular on the left-hand side of the Chamber, I have tabled a number of further proposals, such as the fact that the first disc should not be too long for SMEs. This means that the managing director-major shareholder, the wealthy lawyer or the rich dentist who does it through an e.g. pays only 36% on his income up to four tons. Let that get through to you. I do not think that is desirable. Think of the situation in which we're all gonna cut up together, for example. We can see that they're already being advised. Government, you know what's happening. Grab or increase the tax there and make sure you provide relief to companies somewhere else; I'm totally fine with it. It's not about higher taxes. It's about not getting another circle and making all the lawyers and notaries rich. Then I come to the second point: tax avoidance. We were given four rules, Mr Idsinga asked about what we are going to do about CumEx and the fraud involved. Four lines! Well, I don't know if that 27 billion is right. Maybe the damage is a little lower, but the potential damage is in the many billions. The government is only looking forward to how we can prevent it in the future. If I take that place next to how certain citizens have been treated, I think that is quite a lot. Why isn't the government just as hard on this kind of fraud? Why don't we go after that? Let us all talk to the Germans, who are prosecuting hundreds of people for stealing from the Dutch taxpayer. Or are we gonna do something ourselves? I hope we're gonna do something ourselves. Mr. Chairman. Then the BOR. You've seen what I think of the BOR in some leaked memo. But I also see nice advice coming along. I'll call you one. Imagine: a mother has a big business and wants to give it to her daughter. That's what the BOR's for. In the end, you only pay 2% or 3% tax on that company. You donate a company, up to 1 million you pay nothing at all, and above that you pay about 3% tax. A very attractive arrangement, but some people still think it is too much because they do not want to pay taxes at all or because certain things are not allowed in the BOR. For example, what should not be included in the BOR? Those are rented properties. That's a good thing, I say. If you inherit a property from your mother, you would pay 20% tax. And if your parents had a lot of cottages, you'd pay 3% or 4%. So we have said: we do not do houses in the BOR; you just have to tap that 20%. But they found something on that. First, the mother's company goes through the company's succession scheme to the daughter who wants to take over. Then you have to keep it for five years. And tata, what's the advice? Then you're going to sell it back to the mother. So what's going to happen? The mother's gonna buy that whole company back. When that company is bought back, the daughter keeps running it. But the mother then has a nice debt to the daughter, because the company belonged to the daughter and there is then a debt. At the time of death you can use the entire debt for the BOR and so you can make sure that that part of the company that was not covered by the BOR, for example business premises and rented homes, still move about free to the next generation. Now we can have a very long discussion about the BOR. My guess is that it will also take place at the negotiating table. But this wasn't supposed to happen. The company's succession scheme was to make sure that the company can go from this generation to the generation after that, that that company has continuity, but not that you can go round again to pay no taxes at all. Does the Secretary of State intend to include in the ministerial regulation on the BOR that companies and parts of companies may only go from one generation to the next and that not twice a particular company in the same family can go from the old generation to the young generation via the BOR, so that you can only use it once? I'd like a commitment to that. We cannot amend this, but it can be done through an anti-abuse clause. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the stock options, I have serious doubts, because it requires a lot of implementation, as colleagues have already said, 11 extra FTE, these are relatively few people and I feel that very large companies are going to use them as well. Luckily, I see colleagues who narrow it down a bit. But, guys, we shouldn't want this, should we? Then gas and light. Thank you for the letter of amendment: 3.2 billion. There have been sometimes smaller notes of amendment. I would ask the government to amend this letter of amendment anyway, because I saw that there had been two proposals. On second thought, I have a real preference for reducing energy to gas rather than electricity. This has to do with the fact that people who are sitting in an austere house and can't go anywhere can have the biggest problem. Then you make sure those people are compensated a little more. I know that it is somewhat conflicting with the sustainability objectives, which we have a warm heart for - hey, Mr President, at least as chairman, but you really want to meet these people. Tenants who are in an E- or F-house, who are deprived of 2,000 cubs, cannot go anywhere. The questions about the data exchange of the KOT have been answered fairly well in itself, so thank you for that. As far as box 3 is concerned, I agree with colleagues: what are we going to do? I also expected more answers after what the AG has done: are we prepared? Because if we have to review all those hundreds of thousands of tax returns, then we have quite a lot. As far as homework is concerned, I also agree with colleagues. I feel like that's way too much work. I would like to break another country for publishing the judgments of the tax court. Why couldn't we have gotten to the trouble of grandparents? Because most of the judgments of the judge were not published. Can I please see a delta plan? The Tax Administration now has all the tax rulings, and the citizen or the company only has a few. Finally, Mr President. We're constantly having discussions here on the square millimetre. I hope that colleagues and the parties will also see to it that the tax system is fair and enforceable. I will also make a number of more proposals next year. Do we not raise too much or too little tax on certain people? And the procedures are correct? I have argued in the current Tax Plan for some compensation for the energy costs of tenants living in an inexpensive home. I'm saying that because the people who were at Welcome Energy and had to go to Eneco saw their energy bill double. My motion to do something about that has been rejected here. But I would much rather compensate those people than the owners of large ships. From now on, they don't have to pay taxes at all on shore, because everyone here thinks that's a great idea. You could have done that by simply making shore power mandatory and telling the people of those ships: if you are at the quay, you should not turn on the diesel generators and just plug them in here. Low-income people who travel to work with an old car because they work for example at the baggage belt of Schiphol, have to go somewhere at night and have no public transport, pay the full price with the excise duty. Airplanes are not subject to excise duty. Taxes are about honesty. Who do you want to get it from? I was disappointed with the answer about commuting. The Tesla riders could drive in. People with a middle classer got €0,19, which they can't do. But in general, they can still make ends meet. And the people who have a job just above the minimum wage do not get travel expenses and are entitled to pay everything themselves. That's just about honesty. Can I have a plan to bring that honesty back? I don't just want to hear nice talk about sustainability. I want to hear that that's just possible. I would like to see such a plan for living, working and also for taxes on income. But for that tax on income, we need to measure the carrying capacity first. It's being carried out. It's only when you know what households really need that you're better at taxing. Thank you very much for today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u137	Thank you. No one wants to interrupt Mr. Omtzigt. I think he knocked everybody out. So much for the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-09-tweedekamer-18.u138	Tomorrow at about 2.30 p.m. we will listen to the answers of the rulers. I shall then first give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, so that we will first talk about the issues of residence. Thanks to everyone. I shall close the sitting of 9 November 2021. Ite missa est.
