ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u1	The budget of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations (35925-VII) is currently under discussion: adoption of the budgetary statements of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations for the year 2022. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, we are discussing today the part of the BZK budget for 2022. Last week, in the framework of the Tax Plan, we had a debate on the reduction of the landlord tax for 2022. During that debate, we were still in the dark about what the government agreement would bring for the future of the landlord levy and for the rest of the housing dossier. We now know the concept governing agreement and we know that the landlord's tax will be abolished as of 2023. I hope, at least, that the Minister can confirm that the plans must be read in this way, because the financial annex to the agreement might suggest otherwise. The abolition of the landlord's tax from 2023 is of course good news. There are more points in the section of the government agreement that my group was pleased with. In part, however, that joy was short-lived. Many investments in housing seem to be a big cigar from its own box as the necessary funds come from the Municipal Fund. There will still be a lot of apples to be peeled about, but not today and not with this minister. With her we are now discussing the Housing budget for the year 2022. That is by no means out of date, because the coalition agreement does not include any funding for the Housing Impulse or the Housing Fund for 2022. Those amounts shall not be charged until 2023. That means that, if it is up to this and the next government, in 2022 the government will not invest in building and sustaining homes, while we are now dealing with a huge housing crisis and friend and enemy agree that at least part of the solution consists of building, building, building, building, and now we are dealing with a climate crisis and strongly increasing energy costs for residents. My group cannot understand why there will be no budget in 2022. Because if the government and the coalition parties see the need for further investments in housing by housing corporations and government, and also book them in from 2023, why is nothing done in 2022? Why not abolish the landlord's tax already in 2022, so that housing corporations will be able to invest in new homes for the next year, make them more sustainable and deal with late maintenance? Why is there no money in the Housing Fund for 2022? It's not like there's no plans. Applications from municipalities for the sustainability of a total of 8,500 houses were assessed positively, but could not be granted because the pot was empty. Another 3,250 homes scored enough for an application but were rejected because of the empty pot. Is it not possible to bring forward part of the expenditure planned for 2023 and beyond for both the Housing Fund and the Housing Impulse so that the plans that are there can be implemented and invested in them? Or does the Minister see other possibilities for the desired expenditure to be made by 2022? Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that it is not easy for this Minister to commit additional funds for 2022 here and now. However, that does not make our assessment of the housing budget any different. This is simply not enough. If the Minister wants our support for this budget, we will need substantial money. This can be achieved with a firm commitment that will materialise in a supplementary budget in the short term. You can do that by means of a novelle. If the Minister wants to leave the choice to a new government, we understand. We therefore have no objection, if the Minister so wishes, to continue this debate in January with a minister who is not outgoing and who is only then going to vote. I'd like to hear what the Minister can and will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Crone, who will speak on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the Minister's here, so we might be able to arrange something nice for her to leave, maybe to a new position, maybe to the same position, but that's how we formally see it. Again we are talking about the housing crisis in our country, but again the cabinet is not doing the right thing. It even takes a step back. The cabinet brutalizes the municipalities, first challenging them to come up with plans and now putting them aside. That is a wonderful action that we would like to reverse, because everyone knows: if you want to have more homes, whether for starters, for elderly people who are or are not flowing through, or for students, you have to do everything to prevent delays. We all know that there are often very difficult procedures that are obstructive. This goes from series of procedures for existing construction and in urban environments, where the plans are time-consuming and technical design takes time, to negotiating for example the share of private versus social construction with housing corporations, about buying versus rent, high-, low- and middle-rent. Then there are the zoning plans and the appeal procedures. So everything starts and ends with the support of residents, and with a wide range of facilities that goes with it: physical facilities, from sewers to roads, social services, schools, education, security and affordability. The municipalities have traditionally played a crucial role in this process. They are the only ones who can bring things together from an integral mind and hopefully make pace. I am referring specifically to the issue of financing, because in principle there is a lot of money in this country and many projects are already profitable in themselves. But the Netherlands was always famous for paying a contribution, often a small contribution, to an unprofitable summit, releasing a lot of investment money from others, for example from private and social investors. As a result, a lot of investment money is converted into construction and facilities that go with it. Fortunately, what is happening now is the phasing out of the landlord's tax. We are certainly positive about that, although we could have done it sooner. Mrs. De Boer pointed out the same thing. We were hoping that the landlord levy would be abolished by a huge majority here in the Chamber, including the coalition parties. That was also successful, but it was only in 2023 that a first small start was made. The other part of the motion I tabled to the Financial Reviews, concerning the Housing Fund, is only partially continued. But this will only happen in 2023 and, above all, in the first place by shortening the Municipal Fund. Also, the 1 billion housing impulse starts only in 2023 and amounts to only 100 million per year. In all three key areas, therefore, which should promote the impetus, the overall housing programme, it seems as if a step backwards is being taken. By the way, these Housing Impulses and the Housing Fund are a selection from the cabinet of the municipalities, a cigar from its own box that is not additional, as we intended. The VNG already does not accept this, it was clear from its first reaction. But that also means that some municipalities are going to pay for other municipalities. So there is going to be a very long negotiation process before that is even completed. That too will slow down. Can the Minister confirm that the municipalities here have made plans for virtually nothing, when they are challenged and ready to do so, and that those plans, which have already been approved or almost approved in many respects, must be in the refrigerator until at least 2023? Does the Minister also recognise that it is a great risk that, given the grip of the Municipal Fund, long negotiations with the VNG will follow, because they will not just say: we are going to agree on this item? Does it recognise that this also leads to delays and uncertainty? The same goes for private property. Because it is an essential part of building and it is countrywide: The Hague, Nieuwegein, Limburg, Oost-Groningen, Amsterdam, Zeeland. I have looked again at the list of projects and it is indeed more than 8,000 homes that are not being built now or that are not being refurbished and improved. But also the housing corporations get into trouble. Although the Housing Fund is only about supporting private property, it is important that it is also supported, but it is again projects that are complementary to those of housing corporations. Mr. Chairman. In the motion I tabled earlier and which I am now retabled, possibly for votes later on this day, an amount of 0.5 billion has been mentioned to facilitate these projects through the Housing Fund. I understand that the projects that have already been approved are around 220 million. So maybe there's room to at least settle that. That amount is there, because in the Autumn note, the funding deficit was almost 1% lower than in the Millions note, and that saves EUR 7 to 8 billion. We have so far moved into this together in the First Chamber and we hope that the Minister will also find a way to solve this. Indeed, if you now have to accept a BZK budget with less money in it than last year, that is contrary to the idea that there is a crisis. You're not going to invest less in a crisis, are you? We hope that the cabinet will fix this as soon as possible. I hope that the Minister, the cabinet, will be able to move in the process of repairing the budget. This can be done very quickly by means of a supplementary budget or an adjusted budget. I think that the House of Representatives could also establish this by hammer stroke, so to speak today, because they are together anyway, but at least soon in January, so that we can also accord such a repair here in January. I think it is so in line with the old cabinet policy and the new one that only confirms the word "demissionary" here: if we all agree, just do it. At least we're not missionary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Hattem, who will speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking of living: it is very special that we are for the last time in the former house of the graves of Holland, this Knight's Room, which we may use for the time being; memorable. Mr. Chairman. This budget states: "To ensure that everyone can live comfortably, there is a major construction task." See page 15 of the explanatory memorandum. The note speaks of a deficit of 279,000 homes, which will increase even further in the coming years, and a construction estimate of 900,000 homes to be realized. As long as the borders for mass immigration remain wide open, it is impossible to provide sufficient housing in an already overcrowded country. According to the latest forecast of the CBS, we are already at 18 million inhabitants by 2025, mainly due to mass immigration. In this way, this budget is by definition a rear-guard fight. This is especially true for all those Dutch people who stand in line in the rear of the line in the allocation of a social housing. Can the Minister indicate when this institutional discrimination against Dutch residents will finally be brought to an end and the urgency regime will really be abolished by or on behalf of municipalities? To make things even crazier: the government is now searching city and country for locations to provide even more status holders with housing as a matter of urgency. Sometimes this is temporary accommodation, as in the former youth care institution De Krabbebossen near Rijsbergen in the municipality of Zundert. Juvenile care left this beautiful place in the woods after almost 90 years last year. After many generations, coming for our caring children disappeared. Many of the current buildings are only just twenty years old and therefore still very good to use. That's why temporary house-seekers were housed here. Now these residents who, although temporarily, had found a place here, must leave the premises head-on, because the government is advancing them for the also temporary housing of status holders. These residents had to learn from the media that they had to give up their homes to status holders, while they did not even have accommodation. That's the world upside down. Can the Minister explain how, in this case too, Dutch housing seekers are severely discriminated against against status holders? Then perhaps these status holders will get a permanent home faster with urgency than the Dutch residents who were already in the complex? That's not true, is it? I'd like a response from the Minister. Temporary homes are also built in many places, such as the Riekerhaven complex in Amsterdam for status holders, young people and students.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mr Van Hattem's contribution to this subject is a bit predictable. It's also the question every time "Will I interrupt?', But I'll do it once. I strongly object to the image of mass immigration and that all homes in the Netherlands would be destined for status holders. In my view, this is factually incorrect and, moreover, I think that Mr Van Hattem gives a very wrong idea of the concept of 'discrimination'. He talks about Dutch versus status holders. In Article 1 of the Constitution, I read it for a moment, because the text is partly on the wall here. It concerns everyone who is lawfully on the territory of the Netherlands. No distinction should be made between them. On that basis, I think this is a serious matter, and I find it very regrettable that Mr Van Hattem over and over again places Dutch people in opposition to status holders. Yes, there are also vulnerable groups of Dutch people who urgently need a house. That is why more needs to be built, including more affordable homes. But we are not going to say that people should no longer separate, because the number of separate people who call on housing is so high. The point is that we have to provide sufficient affordable housing for all Dutch people, all people in the Netherlands who need it. And no, this wasn't a question, but I wanted to put this to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u9	It is not a question, but I do hear Mrs De Boer referring to the fireplace here, which contains a former version of our Constitution. If she refers to that: it is very clearly stated that one has to be Dutch in order to have any citizenship right. That is a good starting point, because what we see here is that Dutch people are disadvantaged in the allocation of homes, that is the discrimination that is taking place in relation to status holders. The homes are still assigned to status holders with urgency, although this is no longer legally mandatory, which makes the Dutch have it checked. That's just brutal discrimination. We now see that Dutch temporary tenants have to leave the Rijsbergen complex, to put temporary status holders in it. Those Dutch residents are simply severely discriminated against in relation to those status holders? They get a higher status, the name almost says it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u10	I do not think you read the text correctly. I would advise you to do that again. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u11	In addition, you are right to point out that it is an old text. The point is that there is urgency, yes, but that is based on how urgent people need a home. Municipalities can do that. Again, it is really not appropriate to say that Dutch citizens have more citizenship rights than others who are lawfully in the Netherlands. Then you're guilty of discrimination; sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u12	At the same time, I have to say that the whole number of people who are being added to the housing stock is just as high as the number of status holders assigned to a property. We're just working on an asylum relay that can't be kept up on the housing market. That's just gonna go wrong at some point and it's gonna go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u13	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u14	I talked about the Riekerhaven complex in Amsterdam, for status holders, young people and students. Het Parool writes about this: "This year twice as many status holders are entitled to a social housing in the city compared to last year." But how much right do the housing-seeking Dutch youngsters have? Why are Dutch boys and girls now forced to seek shelter in a temporary container house between those status holders, because so many lucky seekers still have to get shelter? Why not build permanent homes directly for our Dutch young people, in the already so scarce locations? Dutch young people must now also ignore a larger house for their families, because this is assigned by order of the judge to status holders who thought the house allocated to them was too small, as we unfortunately experienced yesterday in Limburg. I would like a response from the Minister on these points. Furthermore, the National Real Estate Company with the COA has made an inventory of sites that can be prepared as a matter of urgency for temporary residence by licence holders. The National Real Estate Company has also identified with the COA, the Ministry of Defence, Aedes, the branch association for housing corporations, and commercial parties such as Koninklijke Horeca Nederland and construction companies in a broader sense existing real estate that can easily be made suitable for temporary residence by status holders. Is the Minister prepared to make these inventories available to Parliament as well? Have the municipal councils, where these developments are foreseen, been informed of these plans at the front? If not, why is local democracy not informed? What possible remedies can residents still use against such a temporary commitment to housing for status holders? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. The explanatory statement to this budget speaks of, and I quote: 'building a sustainable environment to live pleasantly in the long term'. For that terrible sustainability, our country is now inundated with the construction of megawind turbines, even up to 250 meters high. The question to the Minister is how people living in these wind turbines can still live comfortably if their home is spoiled with noise, drop shadow, horizon pollution and any other misery associated with wind turbines. How nice is that living anymore? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u15	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kox of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Around these days we commemorate the story that a father and mother were looking for a place where their child could be born. Ocharm, when that message spread, the king of the land thought: we should not have that, for God knows that child will become a great threat to me. He sent his soldiers out and beat them to death as a precaution but all the children who were in the vicinity of the place where the child was born. That's all just a story. It's never verified anywhere, but it might be a warning. You shouldn't say too quickly that someone did something and therefore blame all the other people who look a bit like it. Moreover, Mr Van Hattem's last comment was reassuring, because he did not just talk about asylum seekers who are responsible for everything. He also added the wind turbines. The average asylum seeker will appreciate that there are other bad things as well. This was all a bit ahead of time, Mr. Chairman. On the last day of this year we will discuss the housing budget for next year of the cabinet that is actually in its last days. For this minister, it will probably also be her last parliamentary debate as a member of the Rutte III cabinet. What the future will bring her, we still need to hear. But that goes for all of us. That's the pleasure of the future. He's not sure yet. This is also a good time to thank the Minister on behalf of the SP Group for all her efforts over the last 1,500 days between her arrival and today. Four years of working in the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and ensuring an adequate housing policy: that will not have left the Minister in cold clothes, I assume. We now know that there will be a separate government representative for Housing and Spatial Planning in the new cabinet. Since it is not going to work for half the money, I suppose we can praise the Minister for being prepared to do two jobs at one price. I do not know whether there will be any compensation for this, but it is clear to us that the Minister has worked hard. But then there is a hard but realistic and essential question: did the hard work also make a difference? And on this point, the Minister is not shocked by the opinion of my group: no, that is not the case. The policy hasn't worked out in the last four years. The gap between tenants and homeowners has increased. The financial pressure on a large part of our tenants has become heavier. The chance to find a suitable home in good time has become less. At the moment, the Netherlands is not only in crisis because of a pandemic which is always foreseen by few, but also because of a development predicted by many, namely the housing crisis. There's a screaming shortage of affordable houses. The waiting lists are insane for a lot of people, especially for young people, and there is no prospect that it will get better in the short term. I would like to ask the Minister whether, looking back on the last four years, she also recognizes that there is a housing crisis. Most of the letters we received from her always start very positively: "Everyone has the right to a good home. Fortunately, a lot of people are doing well." I appreciate that positive, but sometimes you have to name cases. I would like to ask the Minister whether, if she looks back, she is now of the opinion that there is a real housing crisis. Many experts and many stakeholders are talking about this. Could there be any connection with the fact that for ten years we have wanted to solve the problems of living around it mainly through the market? Hasn't that been a crucial mistake? It is to be hoped that the upcoming cabinet will choose a different route. I would like the Minister's reflection on that. I'm not saying she did it all wrong. We have actually done it wrong, considering living as a market and expecting solutions to the problems there. Mr. Chairman. I have a few comments on the rental policy. In the past year, the Minister has finally admitted to the urgent desire of both Parliament's Chambers to freeze the rents in social housing and limit the rents in the free sector. That's profit. The argument of both chambers was that many tenants were already up to their lips and that their position as a result of the pandemic only deteriorated further. Recent research shows that the position of tenants, especially in relation to property owners, has become even more distorted. Most tenants have extremely limited assets, on which they have to rely much more often than owners for the payment of daily charges. Almost 1.5 million households should receive rent payments because otherwise they will not be able to pay the rent. Does the Minister look back at the fact that more should have been done to counter this skewing and dampening of the rents? Is this not also apparent from the new cabinet's intention to reduce the rent of social housing for people with lower incomes? Shouldn't that have happened a long time ago? I'd like a reflection from the Minister on that point. This Chamber once again made a motion a while ago that the Minister had to consider how a one-off rent reduction would be achieved, including in the free sector. The Minister has, thankfully, regulated this one-off rent reduction for the regulated sector; she did not see any opportunities for the free sector. This Chamber has called for proposals to be made and not just to tell us that the Minister does not think it is appropriate. But these proposals are still not on the table. Can we expect anything from the Minister at that point, or does she say, like many of her colleagues at the moment, of course 'that's all for the new cabinet'? The question remains whether it believes that the new cabinet could in any way, comparable to the regulated sector, achieve a one-off rent reduction for those for whom the rent is far too high compared to their income. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister about the rental policy in 2022, because the budget says that the rent freeze will apply until 30 June 2022, but the rest does not say what will happen next. If you see that the upcoming government says that the social rent for low-income people should be reduced, you would expect that it will not go up at least by 1 July 2022, because that would be counterproductive. Can I ask the Minister, since her budget does not report it, what she thinks the rents are going to do in the regulated sector from 1 July? As far as the free sector is concerned, we know that there is a maximum rent increase of 2.3% plus 1%, i.e. 3.3%, which seems to me to be an increase in the contrast between tenants and owners, but for the regulated sector it is not clear to me yet. Mr President, one final point. There is no room for the Minister's budget to meet the great demand in our municipalities for support provided by the Housing Fund this year. In this Chamber a motion was tabled by Mr Crone, also signed by my group, saying that it would be an extremely serious mistake if we were to withdraw the plans that are now on the table, at least for a long time, because there are no resources available. I may ask the Minister, but colleagues have already done so, to respond once again to the urgent request for funds to be made available in 2022 for these plans to be implemented, where concrete housing in concrete municipalities is concerned. Since the landlord's tax will not be abolished until 2023, you would say that there will still be room in 2022, because then we still have the landlord's tax. From its proceeds this motion would be financed. I must point out to the Minister that, in my view, this Chamber attaches great importance to a gesture from her on this point. I understand that this may not be very popular in the now very outgoing government, but in the end the budget must be approved by this Chamber; otherwise there will be no budget. I can therefore ask the Minister to respond seriously to the criticism from this Chamber on this point and to see if there is a creative solution, as Mr Crone said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u17	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak? That is not the case. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u19	Thank you for the opportunity to be here today in your Chamber and to talk about the BZK budget. I would almost say that this is in several respects the trap, this year's trap and the trap of this cabinet. Maybe I can start by saying that I'm doing this a little bit with mixed feelings. As I usually start my letters to the Chamber positively, I would also like to start this debate positively. In fact, I would like to share with your Chamber that the budget as it stands is, in its entirety, a budget that I am proud of. This budget is actually about a lot. Among other things, she's dealing with the reinforcement operation for Groningen. That is an incredibly important file that BZK has included in it halfway through this cabinet period and on which we have concluded an administrative agreement. We got extra money for the National Coordinator and extra money for stuck files in Groningen. There's 342 million in this budget. This budget is also about improving services for people, as a direct result of the report on the childcare allowance. Precisely because the municipalities are so close to their citizens, 130 million are reserved for better services by municipalities. This budget is also about tackling energy poverty. She's about making social real estate more sustainable. She deals with a concession for small landlords because of the freezing of rents and the construction of flex houses. And I could go on like this for a while. That's what I wanted to say first, Mr. Chairman. Then there's today's topic. As Mrs De Boer also said, the reason why the Upper House has taken this opportunity today is that there are still questions and wishes about the part to live. I would also like to make a positive start here. It is not for nothing that I stress every time how important it is that people in the Netherlands can live well, fittingly, nicely and pleasantly. That goes for everyone in our country. At the same time, of course, I can see that there is a large deficit. Mr Kox pointed that out. There are people who have to wait and who cannot find a suitable home with them in the place where they want to live. This naturally leads to discomfort and also to a feeling of impatience: how do we solve this? I feel the same impatience. At the same time, I think I can also see that during this cabinet period the change was made, the shift from cutting back and reforming to building and investing in the housing market. Much has been achieved there and we will see these results in the years to come. This could only be achieved through cooperation. This concerns cooperation between the Empire and the other governments, provinces and municipalities. But also the corporations are of course a very important partner in this. This also applies to the developers and the builders, who have hired people again and made sure that during the pandemic there was also simply built in the Netherlands. That's really special. That's something to be proud of. At the same time, I fully agree with everyone who says that more is needed. I will come to a number of other areas in a moment. Now I happen to have mentioned the building, but it is also about the whole rental policy. It's also about affordability. It's also about sustainability. These are all kinds of elements that are important in the policy that has been pursued and that can hopefully be extended by the new cabinet. First of all, I would like to answer a number of specific questions. First of all, I come to the Tax Plan. When we spoke about this last week, Mrs De Boer, with others, said quite strikingly that we were still awaiting the coalition agreement. In the meantime, we know the content of this. So what many of us were hoping for was also materialised in that coalition agreement. This will therefore be a task for the new cabinet. This is about abolishing the landlord's tax. I have often said to the Chamber that it is actually inevitable to abolish that landlord's tax, because in the long term the investment capacity of the housing corporations is simply being eroded. So I was also happy to see, with many in this Chamber, that the new coalition has decided to abolish the landlord's tax. That happens as of 2023, that's how I read it. I think there can be no doubt about that. In the series in the coalition agreement, the proceeds will be charged to zero from 2023. It has therefore been abolished de facto. I know that parties in this Chamber, including GroenLinks and PvdA, have argued that they should be abolished a year earlier, namely the next financial year. I have spoken about this before in the House of Representatives, and also here too. I think that for the whole sector, for the housing corporations, the fact that the new cabinet will abolish this landlord's tax by 2023 will have a huge effect. We are already seeing the impact of the 500 million; we discussed this in detail last week. Following is the abolition of 2023. That means a huge increase in their investment capacity. This means that much more can be built in the long term, that more can be preserved and that more maintenance can be done. This is extremely important for the housing market. He hasn't been abolished by next year. I did not find any budgetary room for that. Luckily, while the cabinet was outgoing, I was able to do a number of things for the housing market. But I couldn't do more for that landlord tax than what we discussed last year. Full abolition next year would cost another 900 million; I have no budgetary room for that. But once again, for the whole social sector, it is abolishing as such what it was about and that is what is going to happen. Then there were the questions that were more about the Housing Fund. As far as the Housing Fund is concerned, I would almost say that we have set it up together. It was the result of a political consultation in the Lower House between coalition groups and a number of groups in the Upper House. It was very enthusiastic, by the way, so it was very good that the Housing Fund could get there, with 450 million. In the meantime, it has found its destination, so the best projects have been awarded. That is not the only thing that is going to happen for the coming period, because we have also made 1 billion in the budget available for housing. There is also 250 million for a fourth tranche of the Housing Impulse. It will be part of the 2022 budget. That is simply part of the budget that this cabinet has submitted. Why are we doing all that? Because we do regard this housing as a priority, and we consider it extremely important. The same applies to the Housing Fund. That's not just housing, I'll say, that's restructuring. It is about improving the quality and living environment in the most vulnerable areas in the Netherlands. However, almost 22,000 homes in the immediate vicinity of the homes are handled. That is why there is a lot of enthusiasm among municipalities. There were 15 mayors who sparked this up. They have once again drawn attention to this and called for it to be continued. I was also very pleased that I saw in the coalition agreement that a follow-up is being given to the Housing Fund, and that it therefore responds to the call made by these municipalities. Mrs De Boer and Mr Crone said that there were more plans and proposals than money. That was true for what I can now call the first tranche of the Housing Fund. That's right. That was because it was limited to 450 million. There were more plans, and there were also more plans that crossed the line qualitatively. So they basically had a sufficient score as a final score, but there was no State contribution for it, because the money was run out. That's how it works for these kinds of constructions, of course. If there is limited money, it may be that there are proposals that make it to the finish line, but do not get any money at this stage. Those projects don't run away. I will also be very happy to show at the time of the transfer that there are already projects that a new ruler could try to prioritize. I'm not in charge of that. I want whoever gets to do this beautiful file, to give up the stick, and at the same time I don't want to rule over my own grave. There are a number of points which fall more into the category of 'other' or 'other' items. Mr Van Hattem has made a number of points which he often makes. I'm gonna try to just answer the actual questions. Should Dutch house seekers longer look for a bigger house, and what is that because of? There's just a big cut on the housing market. This means that it is difficult for many people to find a suitable home for different reasons. Therefore, this cabinet has always been working to increase the supply of housing in all segments of the social sector, but also in the other segments, so that there is indeed a flow on the housing market, so that people can move and leave behind another home that is suitable for other people. But it's not easy to find a place to live, is it? I think it will take at least eight, nine, ten years to rebuild and improve that housing market. I had a few more questions from Mr Kox. He asked what he called the crooked growth, the difference between the buyers and the tenants. Of course, we've run a rental policy. That is what we have had heated debates on here. Luckily, we've found each other again, when it comes to rental policy. I do think it should always be a combination: how can you ensure affordability for the tenants, while at the same time improving the starting points for start-ups in the housing market? We have adapted the rental policy in this respect by, among other things, the one-off rent reduction for low-income tenants and high rents and by maximising the rent increase in the free sector. These are all measures that I am very pleased with. More affordable construction for start-ups has been stimulated mainly through the housing impulse. We introduce the possibility for municipalities of social purchase with priority for starters of interest to the municipality, for example people who already live in the municipality and otherwise have to leave or people who work in a sector that is important to the municipality. Those are all policies that really make a difference, which the municipalities like to make use of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u20	I do not know whether the Minister had already answered all my questions, in her opinion, but I did ask a few more questions. I don't know if the minister's gonna come up with that in her term or...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u21	I have a few more questions from Mr Van Hattem which I will answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u22	Okay. That's fine. I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u23	I could do that right now. Mr Van Hattem specifically addressed status holders. It is true that I have been very active in housing status holders. That is what is needed. Firstly, it is good for the status holders and their integration if they have a place to live as soon as possible. It is now also necessary to relieve the pressure on COA locations; since last summer we have intensified on this. In that context, I have put in place temporary facilities, temporary homes, flex homes. We actually call that "intermediate facilities." This means that in the short term municipalities will be able to create additional housing. This helps them to house status holders as well as other target groups that urgently need living space, because it simply increases your living stock. It goes much faster when you do that with those intermediate facilities, with flex houses, with temporary homes, than when those homes still have to be built. Mr Van Hattem had a specific example, the municipality of Zundert. There 95 status holders from the region can be housed. I understand that there is an anti-cracking facility there at the moment. This is now subject to a one-month notice period. The municipality has informed those who are now sitting there anti-cracking, and has offered them a discussion about this. I personally believe that the municipalities have an important role to play in this. They have to decide how they want to do the housing of status holders and other attention groups. They know best, too. This must therefore be done in good consultation with these municipalities, but also in good consultation with other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u24	Let's get to this point first. Can the Minister explain how people who receive temporary housing, in this case an anti-cracking house, could have to leave this property for another group who temporarily gets a residential facility? Temporarily for temporary, isn't that consistent when a group has to sit there temporarily? That's an uneven playing field, isn't it? That's the first thing. Secondly, the flex houses. I see this phenomenon now increasingly popping up in municipalities. The housing sites are scarce. The argument is always that building flex houses is faster than building permanent homes. My question then is: could the Minister, together with the municipalities and other partners involved, not be better placed to speed up these procedures for permanent housing in those scarce housing locations, so that we can build more quickly in those places and not ten or fifteen years of living in all kinds of temporary housing on scarce housing sites?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u25	On that last point, I would like to say that it is en-en. It is indeed a question of speeding up housing where this can be done. We also make agreements with the municipalities on this particular project. At the same time, we are looking for other locations, where we cannot realize housing in the short term, but which we can use temporarily for these flex houses. That varies a bit from locations for real temporary homes............................................................................................................................................ It is precisely from the municipalities that there is a great need for this. It is not a displacement of one by another, but rather an addition that leads to more homes. Then about the first point, temporarily for temporary. Mr Van Hattem also knows that if there is an empty building and there is a contract for anti-cracking, which is always on its way to another destination of that building. There's always a contract underneath. So I understand very much that you are now completing that anti-cracking living and instead allowing those homes to be put into use by status holders. I think that is a good and creative solution. We have also asked the municipalities to come up with creative solutions, which we now need in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u26	I am surprised that the Minister calls this a 'good and creative solution', because people are simply being thrown out. Dutch house seekers who have to live anti-cracking due to circumstances will not have a roof over their head, because these homes are suddenly used for status holders, which is also a temporary filling in of the building. Because in the end, there's a completely different destination for that. It was for social services. In any case, that is a social destination and not a destination on that complex. Then about the flex houses. I can cite an example from my own congregation, in's-Hertogenbosch. That's where the big plan for De Groote Wielen is probably known to you - a section designed for 300 flex houses for a period of fifteen years, while it is actually a planning area where housing is provided. I would ask the Minister whether it is effective to use the scarce land in the Netherlands in such locations, where housing would have been planned for the coming years, if temporary flex houses, in this case really hundreds of flex houses, are set up there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u27	The best judge of that is the municipality concerned. That is what the consultation is about. Together with them, we are looking for the most effective use of scarce space. We've scaled up the planning capacity of housing throughout the country. We have made clear agreements in the fourteen regions where the scarcity is greatest. So that goes in good consultation, but in the end the municipality itself can best see where these temporary facilities add something to the housing stock. Again, that's faster. And the people who live there have to eventually flow back to regular homes. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem had also asked a question about windmills. That was actually more of a comment, I think. I think that is not at all contradictory, because we have learned a lot about how to deal with wind farms and windmills. For its construction there is simply spatial planning and environmental regulation, which ensures that there is an acceptable living and living environment and that people living in the area are also much more involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u28	My final point. I would like to keep it within the debate, because this tends rather quickly to go to a file that is in a different portfolio than that of this minister. I'm staying with the neighborhood's enjoyment. At the moment, many of these wind farms are being realized close to residential centres. They are often located only a few hundred meters away from a residential core. The standards used for noise loads are often standards based on wind turbines that have been used in the past in a much less high class than the turbines that are now set down from up to 250 meters. So the effects are much greater. Does the Minister agree with me that these developments in the wind turbine sector should be taken into account from the pleasure of living? The Minister's talking about living pleasure. Does she agree that the focus should not be on energy generation but on housing? The second is that we also need to look at the locations. For example, a municipality can say: we have to set up win turbines because of our leftovers and we put them right at the municipal border. I can see in almost all the municipalities that these municipal boundaries are literally being looked up, so that a core on the other side of the municipal border gets a lot of nuisance, while the people who live there are actually not involved in the decision-making process at all. How does the Minister view this, especially from the point of view of pleasant living, the pleasure of living?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u29	It is true that we come to the edges of what this budget is about and what my portfolio is about, but from the perspective of spatial planning and living it is, of course, something to do with it. I would like to repeat the answer I just gave: fortunately we have just legislation and regulations in the Netherlands. The laws and regulations ensure that the living and living environment is taken into account when building wind farms or windmills. I agree with Mr Van Hattem that this is very important. That consideration must therefore also be made. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few questions that saw on rent. It was, I think, especially Mr Kox who had questions about this. I told you about it. When it comes to people's purchasing power, we look at it, of course, which is the debate we have often had here, not whether someone is a tenant or owns a home. It is important that there is a balanced purchasing power picture and that lower incomes do not become disproportionate. That didn't happen. We have been able to show a balanced picture of this cabinet period, even in spite of the corona crisis. I have, of course, been committed to improving the affordability of tenants, as well as the opportunities for start-ups. That's kind of the other side of the coin. Those measures I have just mentioned, the one-off rent reduction, temporary rent discount and the maximation of the rent increase, including in the free sector, are of course examples of this. I also think that the situation surrounding the pandemic has accelerated in some areas, as has the attention of this Chamber. That's very positive. At the same time, it is also important to ensure that there is a flow. I said that just now in response to a question from Mr Van Hattem. For example, introducing that social purchase, which I have just explained and which municipalities will like to use, means that start-ups can get priority for affordable homes and that they will sometimes, often even, I think, leave a home that is very interesting for someone else. That is a good way of putting it together, and we have set it in motion. We haven't been there yet, but I think it's a good base. Then there is the question of whether there should be more regulation in the free rental sector. In any case, I have already announced to both chambers that there will be so-called collision tests to work out the middle-rent measure. Then it's actually just being tried out how that would work in practice. I read in the new coalition agreement that there will be a form of regulation of the free sector. Of course, I also have to wait and see how the new cabinet will shape it, but it is in that agreement. As regards the rent policy for the following year, this budget is, of course, about 2022, it was said: you did not say anything about a rent reduction. Of course, part of it we just have the deal as it is. Secondly, of course, we are looking at inflation, which is the basis for a possible rent increase, but it is whether and how the new cabinet really is. The rent freeze that has been agreed, therefore, applies until 1 July 2022. Before then, I have to refer to the forthcoming cabinet. I cannot anticipate this, because I am not concerned about it and the new cabinet is in a timely position to take decisions of this kind. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, thank you for all the comments that have been made, I think we can see with some satisfaction that this landlord's tax will be abolished from 2023 if the rate simply goes to zero. This cabinet is now really deep in injury time, which means that, as much as I would like to, I cannot now make additional funds available for the Housing Fund. What I can do is pass it on to my successor, because I also hope that the instruments that have proved themselves, namely the Housing Impulse with which the new Cabinet wishes to continue and the Housing Fund with which the new Cabinet wishes to proceed, perhaps with a different interpretation, and with more direction and a minister who will only do Housing and Spatial Planning, will continue. I welcome it all, I think it is all good steps and I am really glad that these elements are in it. Maybe the new cabinet, also hearing the discussion that is being held here, can see if it can take steps faster than 2023. Of course, it's just being built. A lot of the money allocated from the housing impulses will produce housing in the coming years. The same applies to the restructuring of the Housing Fund. It's just been awarded. Those projects are gonna start. The result will only be achieved during the next cabinet period. So a lot has been set in motion. I think the cabinet is going through with that. That is also essential. Maybe one last reflection on where we stand now. At the beginning I said some positive things, because I believe that there is a direction that is good, that is important and that deserves to be continued. But I'm the first to admit it's a very difficult situation on the housing market. That's definitely a housing crisis, absolutely. I also see, of course, how people are concerned or affected by it themselves. We all know the different groups that are incredibly difficult in the housing market. That is why I am also particularly motivated for this so-called warm transfer to my successor to continue all these things and, as far as I am concerned, to do even better. I've done my best, but I can always do better. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u30	I still have an open question that has not been answered by the Minister. I am considering tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter in the second period if there is no clear answer. I had asked about the inventory made by the National Real Estate Company, which is covered by this Minister's portfolio, of the possible locations to accommodate status holders or licence holders. Is the Minister prepared to provide that inventory? To what extent have the municipal councils of the municipalities concerned been informed where possible locations have been provided?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u31	Apologies, I forgot. The National Real Estate Company is still in the process of doing so in close consultation with the municipalities to find suitable locations. That is a careful process, and it really is done in consultation with the municipalities. I can promise this Chamber that it will be informed, but that will be in the middle of next year. As a result, what possibilities do municipalities actually have? It is often said, also by Mr Van Hattem, that you should no longer do that urgency and so on. Municipalities have to decide how they do it. They can do it with urgency or in another way. The Housing Act 2014 prescribes in the form of a six-monthly assignment how many licence holders a municipality has to house. The urgency category is not mandatory. Many municipalities do, but since 2017 it is no longer mandatory. As a rule, they use that urgency category anyway. This is a good way of working for the municipalities. That's why they choose. Otherwise, they'll do it through direct mediation. I hope I have answered Mr Van Hattem's other question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u32	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I shall first give the floor to Mrs De Boer from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I would particularly like to use my second term to thank the Minister for her commitment in the past period, because that was not the case. What matters is that she has not been able to keep getting the rest of the cabinet along, including the Minister of Finance, who has to come up with the money. Even now, I have not heard the hard commitment of money I have requested. I understand that this is also difficult for the Minister at the moment. She says she can ensure a warm transfer to her successor with a list of important projects. I am afraid that will not be enough for our group. I have not heard any response from the Minister to the suggestion that the budget should be lifted over the year, so that a new minister, who may well be able to do something, can come back to us in another term. I'm gonna call it a little more. I'd like to hear if the Minister thinks that's an idea or not. If the minister doesn't think it's a good idea, we're just gonna vote. But if the Minister says it might be an option, I would like to consider it. Thank you again for all your efforts. I am truly convinced that this Minister sees and feels the urgency, but I think that the result for my group will be just too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u34	Thank you. I call Mr Crone of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just saw on the Twitter account of our First Chamber that this is indeed the last day that we are in this room, because we are going to that small room. That is perhaps the symbol for the housing market, because a lot of people are now going to live smaller or live together again. I see in young people that the two or three of them are going to rent a flat, then they all have a room. Luckily, they do that joyfully, because what else are you gonna do? Like us, they have to live smaller and smaller; I feel sorry for them. We've come from 64 square meters per inhabitant to 46 but we're going back up again and that's not good. Mr. Chairman. I did not thank the Minister for doing so in detail last week. Then I praised her for doing good things. I said it was just plastering on a structural, fundamental dysfunction of the market, in terms of capabilities and so on. At that time I even made it clear twice that the plastering was also intended to be positive in this case, and I would like to repeat that. It is a pity for the Minister, also personally, that she has not been given the political space to do more. I can't blame her for that, and I certainly won't. This afternoon we have the LNV budget and there is something like that going on. Of course, much more should have been done there. Some people also say that the new Rutte cabinet is completely different, because they are going to correct all of Rutte III's mistakes, and I think that's great, by the way, including Rutte II's things, which I'm also honest in. You have said that there are also good things in this budget. That is true, but whether we vote for or against this budget, they continue. The new budget may still be implemented, or budget lines based on the old budget, so there is no problem there. As a financial spokesman, I am also always a bit concerned with figures. This budget includes the Housing component that reduces housing from 1 billion and 33 million in 2021 to 109 million in 2022. That is the latest state of affairs. That's okay, because that was the old budget. Total liabilities for the housing market as a whole range from 5.5 billion to 4.5 billion. I also say to the CDA, D66, the VVD and the Christian Union that next year's budget will fall enormously. Well, that's okay, because it's a missionary budget. Then you expect repairs to take place in the coalition agreement. But that's not in 2022, it's in 2023. There really is a billion-dollar gap in relation to the old budget. That's not small money, Mr. Chairman. We cannot vote in favour of a budget that is going down. Usually the budget goes up a little bit and you want it to go up more. But this is not less but less, less, less, to take a free quote from the past; I hope I do not have to go to court for that. Surely it cannot be true in a housing crisis that the budget is falling so far and that the new coalition will not fix that in the first year? I'm glad you're preparing a warm transfer. We'll certainly do that. But that new ruler gets a cold start and has to start tripping. I would really ask the Minister to make another attempt, even before the votes, this afternoon or this evening, on my motion and on the budget. The cabinet can still spend money today, as it literally does today for the corona measures. Then we'll get a budget afterwards. All these corona measures are covered by ex-post budgets. We will certainly do so in this case; I even think Chamberwide. I would really like to ask you to make an intrusive attempt this afternoon, possibly before the votes, to avoid that your budget may not make it, because you are the last person who has earned it, but the cabinet deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u36	I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this second term, I would like to return to the remark made by Mr Kox of the SP about the Christmas story at this time, about the stable in Bethlehem. He linked some critical points to Bethlehem's child murder. First of all, if that situation had occurred at this time, it would have already been a question of reception in its own region. Secondly, if it had been status holders or asylum seekers, it would probably have been said with the ECHR in hand: we are not satisfied with sheltering in a stable between an ox and a donkey; that should at least become a hotel arrangement or a cruise ship. That's in Mr. Kox's direction. Fortunately, Mary and Joseph were grateful people, who could find their way into a stable. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna come up with some outstanding stuff. I just heard the Minister promise that these inventories will be made available to the Chamber, for which I am grateful. I am surprised that this is not going to happen until the middle of next year, because I read in documents from the Ministry of Justice and Security, in the list of questions and answers to their budget, in question 584, in which the State Real Estate Company is mentioned as part of BZK, that these inventories have already been made. It says here she's inventoried. As far as my second point is concerned, on the sites owned by the Empire, it is also stated that there has been an inventory with other partners involved. So I assume it's already happened. Then I ask the Minister why this can't be done sooner. Secondly, it states that these are sites which can be prepared as a matter of urgency. If that is a matter of urgency, I wonder why we can't do it until next year. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a second point. I had also asked what legal remedies residents could use for such a temporary use of housing for status holders. A destination that is not actually intended for it is imposed on temporary use. With this temporary use, residents have very few legal remedies, so I would like to hear from the Minister what rights neighbouring residents still have if this is imposed from above. Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u38	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kox of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mr Crone rightly said, a budget presented by a outgoing cabinet should not be expected of everything. The thought is: do not reign over your grave; the next government will start to rule from then on. In this sense, it is also understandable that the House of Representatives has said: in anticipation of the coalition agreement, we will accord this budget to the part of the House of Representatives. But the reality is that the Minister says: I cannot tell what the rent policy in the social sector will be from 1 July; that is up to the new cabinet. The Minister also says: I cannot say anything about the further regulation of the free sector requested by this Chamber, including the possibility of a one-off rent increase, as we have done in the social sector. Nor can the Minister say whether there will still be money for the plans that are already in place and whether they will be implemented in 2022. If all this is not possible, we can see that the new government has a number of interesting plans for the future, all of which will only apply from 2023 onwards, then this budget will be very lean, actually too lean. Since the Minister says in all conscience that she cannot answer that, because she then rules over her grave, and the next government says that she will not rule on this point until 2023, I wonder if it would be wiser for this Chamber to say: let us then hold the votes on this budget until we have been able to speak to the successor of this minister and ask how he or she will ensure that 2022 does not become a completely lost year. I believe that this possibility could be put on the table, depending on the Minister's response in the second term. At the moment, my group cannot vote in favour of a budget which the Minister himself says: 'I cannot discuss a number of important matters because my successor has to do so'. Let us then talk to the successor and then take a decision on the budget. The Compatibility Act allows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u40	Before giving a political response to this kind suggestion again, how are we going to get at least half a billion, 450 million in my motion as soon as possible, at least for those municipalities, to roll the ball, or not to stop it? Will it help if we coordinate the budget? No, I didn't. Will it help if we take it? No, I didn't. So let's ask the minister, maybe in third term this afternoon, my motion is there, which may be the option. Again, of course, the preference is for that money to come now, but your option is that we do it later. I'm still hesitant about that. Meanwhile, the minister can still spend money, including the new minister, but I prefer to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u41	The best thing would be for this Chamber to vote convincingly in favour of the motion you tabled. Then that signal is clear and then the Minister can return to the cabinet that is still sitting with the announcement that the First Chamber believes that extra money should be provided in the area of plans based on the housing fund but which cannot be implemented. That's for the cabinet to decide. The cabinet could also say: we think that this decision is going too far at the moment, decide on it at the beginning of next year. But then it is just as useful that the budget has not yet been approved, because I agree with Mr Crone that the adoption of the budget is actually a bridge too far. Condemning the budget is not a very good thing. We need to be clear about what will happen in 2022, so that that year will not be a lost year for housing, because the Minister does not want that, this Chamber does not want that, and the new government probably does not want that either. So I think we'll get to that, because we'll get the second term from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u42	Thank you. I understand that Mr Pijlman still wants to speak. I should like to give the floor to Mr Pijlman, who is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. This budget has now passed the House of Representatives and is now here. The minister says I understand part of your wishes, but I can't rule over my grave. We'll get that, too. Now for our group's consideration; I refer to the Compatability Act. If this budget were to be rejected here now, what new policy impulses would lapse? Because then we fall back on the old situation. I think that would help to clarify things a little bit. Moreover, I also understand some of the opposition's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u44	All due respect that you are here to ask for this, but it is a pity that you did not make your position clear in the first term, because in the Financial Reviews in which I tabled my motion, your group said: we think it is a nice idea, but wait for the coalition agreement. I would have found it more politically pure if you had also said: Mr Crone, withdraw that motion, because the coalition agreement is fantastic. You do not, so you probably acknowledge that this motion is necessary, because the coalition agreement does not provide for an impulse next year. In fact, a billion dollars goes down. So then weigh that billion-dollar reduction down against what can go through, which are new impulses. If one thing is certain about Groningen........................................................................................................................................................................... If the motion has not yet been put to the vote, or the budget itself, whether or not the Kox variant, this Chamber will find it excellent as that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u45	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u46	... impulses are also being issued. I think it's a bit of a wedge between groups, the Groningen versus the rest, if that impulse is mentioned for example; the Minister himself didn't call him for nothing in her first term either. So I guess that's not a coincidence. But again, I would like your honest answer to my motion and to the question of what will happen in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u47	I don't understand any of what you're saying about drifting a wedge. I would like to remind you that you have always said in the debates that it was very important that all taxes on housing companies should disappear. That was your head. It's been granted. Then you have other wishes. Yeah, I got it, too. But it's about what we can do right now, in this situation. I think you agree with me that there is a coalition agreement, which is a very good result in terms of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u48	Mr Crone, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u49	I meant by the words 'driving a wedge' that you probably want to know what good things will not happen if you vote against that budget. Then I can tell you that good things I don't want to get in. That's a choice, isn't it? Don't take "a wedge drifting" too hard, but I think everyone understands that you're not asking that question for nothing. That is why I asked you: what is your position on the substance? You quoted my motion halfway. That was about the landlord's tax. The operative part also states: half a billion for the landlord levy. That's a matter of urgency. I've already praised the new government for the landlord's tax going away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u50	Surely it is quite clear that we should know the consequences if we vote out a budget here. Isn't it perfectly clear that I'm asking for that? You say, "Yeah, maybe we should get rid of it." Kox says, "Yeah, maybe we should postpone it." I just want to know clearly what will happen if the First Chamber rejects this budget now. That doesn't have anything to do with... I think that's what all of us want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u51	I also started by saying: it's fine that you do that. All I said was, it's crazy that you're not going to be able to do that until the second term. You should have known this a long time ago, because we have been saying this for weeks. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u52	Short, Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u53	The second point is that you have not yet answered the question of the gap in the landlord levy. That's for next year, including the Housing Fund, I have to say. Together with the landlord tax, a billion cuts are being made on next year's housing budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u54	What's your question, Mr. Crone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u55	I repeat the question as to whether the reduction of 1 billion next year will be borne by D66. That is probably the case if you vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u56	Honestly, I think that's a little bullshit. Let me just say that. We all know what we said about the landlord tax. We both know that this landlord's tax will be abolished. We also know that a new cabinet wants to continue with the Housing Fund. We also know that the necessary financial arrangements still need to be made. I would also remind you that in the new coalition agreement, fortunately, the Community fund is given a strong boost, so that there are more choices for the fellow governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u57	Okay. No, Mr Crone, I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u58	I believe that Mr Pijlman's questions are entirely correct and that the Minister will also answer them. I think we can draw on previous experience here. When the budget is lifted by 31 December, there is no problem. The Compatibility Act provides that the Minister may continue to spend up to a very high ceiling. But the question is indeed whether there will be any danger if the budget is adjusted. So we get an answer from the Minister. But I also understood the question as follows. If we keep the budget, decide on it in January, and the Minister can say that there will not be so much danger, then the sympathy of the D66 colleagues for the wishes put on the table by the opposition will be much easier. Isn't that how I understand it? You wanted to say that if nothing is in danger, it will be something easy for you to look at the Crone motion with a positive basic attitude. That's what you were supposed to do, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u59	I always admire your agility. That is the case now. I just want to know what would happen if we rejected the budget today. You are quite right that existing matters can then continue, but there can be no new policy. What happens then? In total, having also heard the cabinet, we will have to consider what is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u60	Suppose the minister could say, "Don't worry, Mr. Arrowman. With that big budget I have, I can really get to work in January. And not everything needs to be fixed by January 1st." Then the D66 Group and other groups will look at the proposals made from the Chamber and say: if it does not clash with other policies, then perhaps this policy, which the Chamber asks, can be implemented. I think that's very useful, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u61	I don't know if there's another question. It's actually kind of a repeat of moves. We want, I think, both to be clear about the question: what can go on and what is in danger? And how does the outgoing cabinet view a situation of delay? If you're gonna delay, you have to be sure it's gonna make a profit. Otherwise, it's empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u62	Thank you. I see that there are no other Members who wish to speak in the second term. The Minister can answer already. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I understand very well what kind of dilemma is going on here. I hope that in my first term I have sufficiently emphasised this. Because I understand perfectly well that if you stand at the end of this year for the choice of whether or not to vote in favour of this budget, you will nevertheless take this opportunity to see if there is anything to be said about it with this minister at this stage of this cabinet. And there are parts in it that you know you want more of next year: the Housing Fund, to name but a few. Then, of course, it's not nice that I don't really see any possibilities for that. I don't like that myself. I'd rather say yes, I can still do that. But I'm afraid that's not how it is. I'm just gonna try to walk by and answer the questions anyway. I do that in order of how they're set. That's why I'm starting with Mrs. De Boer. She said that she had not yet had an answer to the question: what would happen if the adoption of the budget were to be postponed to another time? That's what I think the question was like. First of all, of course, I am not going to go over when this Chamber votes and so on; that is up to you. But I'm just going to go into the question of how it works in technology. Can you move that approval to another moment? Yeah, technically, you can. This means that the budget is being held and must be re-examined. If the budget law had to be amended, it would mean treatment in both chambers. That would then be something the next cabinet would do, and my successor would then debate with both Chambers. The unfortunate thing about this is that I am now also at Mr Crone's input that it is leading to delays in new expenditure. They can't be done yet. I have just listed a number of these expenditures: expenditure arising from the Groningen administrative agreement, expenditure on improving the provision of services to the public authorities under the childcare allowance, expenditure on poverty reduction, etc. I've just listed them; I won't name them all again. In the area of housing, too, there is at least a delay in the expenditure on housing. So as long as we can't give the concession to landlords for the rent freeze, they just don't get it. Especially the smaller landlords will naturally suffer from this. So there will also be delays in the area of sustainability in the built environment. This does indeed affect the quality of housing policy, when we do not. That is why I followed the reasoning of the cabinet, which resigned in January of this year. We had elections in March; we had a long formation. In all this time, the cabinet has been a missionary. This outgoing cabinet has made a budget. There is a lot of new policy in this budget, including in areas other than housing, and of course there is extra living money in it. Mr Crone does not include the ten times 100 million because he is not directly involved in this, but the effect is indeed in 2022. In doing so, the outgoing cabinet has been able to do a great deal more. The House of Representatives approved this by a large majority. That's where I'm standing right now. I have indeed said: at this stage it is very difficult to do anything else, if not impossible. I hope the new cabinet will be here in a few weeks. When I see the texts in the coalition agreement in this way, I have no doubt that my successor, the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning, will naturally want to get to work very quickly and will undoubtedly show all the creativity to ensure that 2022 is not a lost year. I think that's important. I want to pass that on to my successor too, but I just can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u64	I understand the Minister's problem. It's been remembered: it's corona years and the cabinet is a missionary. I understand that the Minister says that she has no fundamental objections to the development of thought as it is taking place here, but that she simply cannot do it. But isn't it the quickest solution to hold the votes on the budget and then, if there is a new cabinet, to have the minister's successor left? The Minister can then, because it fits in with the policy outlined from 2023, in such a debate: I think what the Chamber is asking for is sensible and I will try to make that clear through a novelle in the House of Representatives. Then it can be arranged very quickly. Today we are voting on a novella requested by this Chamber, which has been approved by hammerpiece in the Lower House. In any case, I think that is the fastest way to improve the budget, without putting the good things of the budget on the back burner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u65	That's one route. I didn't say for nothing: in the end this Chamber itself decides when or not to vote. I think it's a technically possible route. So if that's the question, then my answer is that it could be technically possible. I told you I don't want to go over my grave and I can rule. Then it's not just about what I can't do at this stage, but it's also about not wanting to make promises or not getting things going with which I'm cutting the grass off my successor's feet. I think and expect that the successor will have a lot to do to ensure that 2022 is not indeed a lost year. I think that of all the things Mr Kox, Mr Crone and Mrs De Boer hope for, for example, that a number of projects can be carried out from the Housing Fund in 2022, my successor will naturally also wonder how he or she can achieve that. That seems obvious to me. But I would rather leave that to the new cabinet, to the new govern ment, than to sort it out in such a way that that decision has already been taken. There are, of course, regular times when this can be done and when the debate can be held again with the Chambers, for example during the spring note or, if necessary, earlier if the new minister so wishes. So in other words, I see it as my job to at least hand the file over to my successor in such a way that the urgency of what some people want to achieve here, namely that a few steps can be taken in 2022, also in my successor. I have faith in that. That would be my preferred route. But again, I don't choose the route in the end. He chooses this room himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u66	Building on that: a possibility has been mentioned. The Minister has indicated that this is not her preferred route, but that there is the possibility. You are going to ask: does anyone want to vote on this proposal? Yes, I want to vote on that; I can say that already. But I would also like to discuss with colleagues whether we are going to make a point of order before the votes begin, in which we are proposing that the votes on the budget be postponed to January. I believe that the Chamber will keep all its possibilities and that the successor of the Minister will still have all his possibilities of doing the right thing, without causing any problems for all the good that is already in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u67	In any case, I am pleased that Mr Kox says that there are good things in this budget in other areas, and indeed in this section too. That's exactly my point, too. That is why I hope, of course, for support for the budget, but if the Chamber would prefer to deal with it as soon as possible with the next cabinet in the new year, there is nothing technically in itself to prevent it from doing so. But my plea would be to keep that postponement as short as possible, because all the new expenditure in the budget, for new policies, simply cannot be done until this Chamber has given its assent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u68	Thank you for the answer, Minister. I remember when we had this discussion last year, when we were discussing the Pension Act. It had to be for Christmas. When it appeared that the Minister, Koolmees, had already sent a letter to the parties saying that the Chamber might not do so before Christmas, we even had to come back for it in the recess, but that he could then introduce it retroactively. Moreover, in the preamble to that law, it is literally stated that the law will enter into force at the time of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities, which is an almost literal quote, and will then have retroactive effect until 1 January. So, if the law is adopted later, if a budget law is just a law, then all those expenses that people are looking for now can be made retroactively as of 1 January. That, I think, will result in little pain, I say in particular to D66. I would like to take part in the pause with my group on a suggestion from Mr Kox, but for the record: I said last week that I hoped that my motion would not have to be put to the vote if the coalition agreement were to be satisfactory. This may have led to a procedural misunderstanding, because I think I should now put this motion on the agenda so that it can be voted on this afternoon. That's motion 35925, letter G. I am therefore offering it for the vote, which depends on the order proposal, but I think it will at least be put to the vote in order to give the new minister, together with this minister, the most warm and hot encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u69	I'll take a look around and add motion 35925, letter G, to this afternoon's agenda. Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u70	I'll answer a few more questions that have remained. I would nevertheless like to turn to the other route: to agree to the budget and then to the new cabinet, with the agreement in hand, to press for acceleration and acceleration, so that 2022 is not a lost year. That gives more certainty on the other parts of this budget. Again, I also find it rather complicated administratively. We would like to be a reliable partner in the direction of the municipalities, the housing corporations and those who are working very hard on the reinforcements in Groningen. For all those parties it is of course much more pleasant to know that they can count on this. It gives uncertainty about the continuity of many routes. The BZK budget is just more than the Living part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u71	This is like a little overkill. I just said: Minister Koolmees sent a letter to all the social partners last year: these pension schemes are going ahead, because the Chamber has no problems at all on those parts; they are on another part. You can also send such a letter, missionary, in any circumstances, to anyone. We have also said it here: everything goes on, except for this one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u72	I heard about it, but I'm putting a different route across. Mr Crone, everyone here, is himself concerned with what choice he or she makes. But that is a route which, in my view, gives exactly the same result and does not give any uncertainty for the rest of the budget. So that's what I wanted to put up with, because of the passionate plea I hear for the other route. Again, technically it is possible. I think everyone listens carefully and knows what the discussion is about, but the Compliance Act is regularly cited today and so is it. As long as there is no agreement on the budget, I can make an administrative commitment, but the money is not yet available and cannot be spent. That's just a fact. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a few other comments. Mr Crone's point was that the budget is going down. I hope he has taken good account of the fact that the money, which has been made available, that additional billion, must of course also be seen as part of this budget, including the Tax Plan and the 500 million. It is therefore not the case that by agreeing to this budget you agree to a lower amount. That just stays up to date, or is even a little bit more. Mr Van Hattem had a few comments on sites for status holders. About what happens in the mid-term in municipalities and so on, the Chamber simply receives letters. But I was talking about the intermediate services; I thought Mr Van Hattem's question was about that too. For the intermediate facilities we have 800 to 1,000 housing units in view. It's gonna take some work. I do not expect the result until the middle of next year. That's why I mentioned it. But everything that is achieved more quickly in the interim will of course be informed to Parliament. Mr Van Hattem also asked which remedies can be used by local residents if municipalities have plans for temporary housing for status holders. For this purpose, the regular participation procedures in municipalities apply. Perhaps this is a bit of an unsatisfactory end to this debate. There are options for this now, but I think it is mainly up to the Chamber to choose. I hope that at least I have answered all the questions that were there to a sufficient extent. I thank all the senators for their good cooperation. It was a great pleasure to be here and to do this portfolio. I wish you a quiet new year and a beautiful Christmas period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u73	Thank you, and you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u74	I'm here to deal with the bill. I think it has already been said that one of the Members wants to vote on the bill. I propose that we vote today at the end of the sitting on the legislative proposal and on the motion that has just been added.
