ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35711, adoption of the decision of the Council of the European Union on the system of the European Union's own resources adopted in Brussels on 14 December 2020 and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. I had already welcomed the Minister of Finance, so I am not going to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Exceptional times call for exceptional measures. With that insight, we have all been enriched over the last year and a half. At least you hope so. The own resources decision is an example of the exceptional actions decided upon by the European Union. My group welcomes that. As far as my group is concerned, this debate should have taken place much earlier. On 30 March, the Finance Committee issued its final report. It's only after a month and a half we're here. Why? Because the opposition VVD party in this Chamber thought it was the task of Mr Rutte and Mr Hoekstra to assist in the negotiations, and then to surrender to the German Constitutional Court, which had no problem in this proposal. The negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund had apparently not done enough damage and therefore the Netherlands had to be one of the last countries to deal with this bill. My group deeply regrets this state of affairs. After more than two years of positioning, forging coalitions as the dirty four and putting the heels in the sand, the Dutch government finally had to accept a lot of what was at odds with her commitment. Let me be clear: we are not grieved about it. I will come back to the point of the result in relation to the Dutch commitment. However, it is clear that the position of the Netherlands in Europe has deteriorated considerably. Mr. Chairman. Many technical questions, suggestions and consequences of agreements on the Eigenmiddelsbericht for the Netherlands have been discussed in detail in the Dutch Parliament. That is why I shall confine myself here on behalf of my group to a number of key points. First of all, the result versus bet. My esteemed fellow party member Bart Snels across the street indicated in the debate with this minister that he had to sneak around when reading the explanatory statement, in which the government claims that the result is in line with the government's commitment and she also uses concealing language to say that the government has had to accept a lot. Apparently, I have a different kind of humor than my colleague, because I couldn't laugh about it at all. Also in the light of the discussions on a new administrative and political culture, it is vital that the rulers tell the whole, honest story and that they do not try to justify everything that is crooked, so that it fits into their little street. I would just like to remind you of the proposal from Austria, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands: a temporary one-off emergency fund. Heavyly affected EU countries can borrow up to two years to overcome the corona crisis. That was the bet. The government's commitment was therefore a small, temporary, loan-based recovery fund. It has become a largely gift-based fund of 750 billion, including 390 billion donations. In doing so, the Vice-President of the Commission, Dombrovskis, recently stated that conversion into a definitive recovery instrument is not excluded. The commitment of the Dutch government was also: no joint loans on the capital market, the detestable Eurobonds. Exactly that's gonna happen. For EUR 750 billion, the European Commission may borrow up to 2058. The minister will hopefully see the end, but I probably won't. It was interesting to see how the minister tried to bring European agreements into line with the government's commitment in the Lower House. "Ah, borrowing by the Commission on the capital market is not new and not unique; it has happened before," said the Minister. But old or new, that's irrelevant. The government has done everything it can to stop that. No gifts, but only loans, well, that related to the MFF and not to a new recovery fund, the Minister claimed. Besides, not to mention, this Recovery Fund comes from the heart of the Heads of Government. So the minister wasn't involved? Mr. Chairman. I invite the Minister today to come up with an honest reflection, with a better story than his defense in the House of Representatives. I would also ask him to refrain from the historic choice of presenting the Recovery Fund, which allows a huge future-oriented investment, as'money in exchange for reform'. My group attaches great importance to an honest reflection. For European cooperation to be supported, especially in difficult times, it is important that this is done properly, especially when future generations will have to deal with the consequences of these decisions. Mr. Chairman. With this own resources decision, we are making it possible to respond to a deep crisis at European level. Member States are financing recovery without further pushing them down the drain, as in the euro crisis, by cutting them down. It is historic, because we tackle this crisis together, allocate this green so that the corona crisis does not result in a deeper climate crisis or recession, which is many times more expensive than the Recovery Fund itself. As far as we are concerned, the economic stimulus could have been even greater, especially in comparison with the United States, which has a much larger support package for significantly fewer inhabitants. How does the Minister view, when the crisis lasts longer than the Minister could have imagined at the beginning of 2020 and the economy in the European Union recovers more slowly than in the US, against the size of this fund? Joint recovery requires a joint solution, which must consist of green investment and reforms. The recommendations from the European Union to the Netherlands are well-ready and have been known for many years: reduce private debt; accelerate mortgage interest; restore the housing market by strengthening and making the housing sector more accessible; stimulate citizens' wage growth in cooperation with the social partners; make the pension more transparent, intergenerational and more shock-proof and do more against an aggressive fiscal climate. It's all clear. The minister said money in exchange for reform. That's the heart of the Recovery Fund, according to him. Will it finally work for the Netherlands? What reforms is the Dutch Government planning? The Netherlands is also entitled to 5.6 billion. Is it true that the Netherlands has already informally discussed a number of plans with the European Commission and that these plans have been rejected because the necessary reforms were missing? In other words, where are we with the plans for the Recovery Fund? The Netherlands is apparently the only country that has not yet submitted plans to the Commission, arguing that the Netherlands is waiting for formation. We are very concerned about this. It is about forward-looking investments in digitalisation and in a sustainable green recovery. The Netherlands cannot start this early enough. Where's the sense of urgency? How much progress has the Netherlands made with the preparations since the treatment in the Lower House in March? The delay may not have an impact on the amount that the Netherlands allows, but it does have an impact on time. We call on the government to speed up the plans, by means of an inclusive process in which the House of Representatives is strongly involved, so that we can submit a broad-based plan more quickly in Brussels. Unusual times require unusual actions. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The fundamental point of the rule of law mechanism, in which the Commission can shorten countries such as Poland and Hungary from the budget and from the Recovery Fund. Unfortunately, the European Union cannot intervene if Poland and Hungary continue to politicise their judiciary without linking it to EU funds. We would have liked to see that different. We would also have preferred the Commission not to wait for the European Court to rule before this EU legislation is enforced. It's a dangerous precedent. We assume that the government agrees with this. What is the Netherlands doing about the Prime Minister's idea that we should think about future budgets without Poland and Hungary? I would like to know a little bit more about that. Hungary's first recovery plan submitted directly affected violations of the rule of law with regard to less university and academic freedom. The Hungarian Government's modified version also gave little hope. Thanks to the Netherlands, Member States have control over all plans submitted through a delegated act. In the case of a majority, objections may be raised. Is the Netherlands prepared to carry out a specific assessment of compatibility with the rule of law within the national recovery plans and to refer this to the European Commission? My group is considering a motion on this point. Mr President, I will conclude. For GroenLinks, it is clear: this proposal is an important milestone for Europe. Hopefully it'll get a sequel. Let us invest our green and honest out of this crisis, paying close attention to the fundamental principles of the rule of law, so that we can continue to flourish our continent. You retreat behind the dike and do nothing but slow down, after all, is many times more harmful to everything and everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u4	May I ask a question on the point raised by Mr Karimi in connection with human rights violations? She says that the Dutch Government should draw the Commission's attention to this. But the order is the other way round: the Commission makes the proposal to the Council. Shouldn't that step have been taken by the Commission before then, so that it is discussed? I believe that this is also a criterion in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u5	Yeah, that's what I meant. The Commission has now adopted an over-wait-and-see attitude by saying that we await the Court's ruling first, and then we take action. We would like the Dutch Government to actively address this issue to the Commission, but at the same time we would also like it to set it up as much as possible, in order to persuade the Commission to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u6	Then I understand your intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u7	Apart from what we think of Mrs Karimi's motion, I do not know whether Mrs Karimi saw that Hungary recently referred to the rule of law in the Netherlands. All kinds of judicial and legal matters did not go well in the supplementing affair. Even the cabinet resigned. I understand that you would like to lecture other Member States, but of course this can also reflect on the Netherlands, because there are serious problems here, although they may not be quite comparable. How does Mrs. Karimi see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u8	Oh, yeah. In my view, the answer to this is twofold. One is that at least a cabinet has fallen here. I haven't seen Orbán move one millimeter in Hungary. So that already shows that there is a big difference in domestic relations. The second is about addressing each other and again on the rule of law. If there is a reason to appeal to the Netherlands, then so must we, but that is no reason to say that we may be called upon to do so, so we are not going to address anyone. I don't think that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u9	The problem is that the cabinet has fallen over, but the problem has not yet been solved. We saw that another wrong mailing went out to all kinds of people yesterday. So the problem will not be solved, despite the fact that the cabinet is decommissioned. In that sense, I should like to warn you that this medal has two sides. It may as well be used against us if the Dutch rule of law lingers in its present decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u10	But does Mr Otten agree with me that we are both concerned about the way things are going? Mr Otten made this point because Mr Otten also felt that this should not be the case in the Netherlands. That is what we agree on. It is also very good that this is being discussed very strongly in Dutch political relations. We agree on that. Then we are in Europe. We say: we are a union of values and we think that the rule of law is very important, so we must be able to talk to each other again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. Every seven years there is an opportunity to improve the resilience of the European Union. I am not referring here to conferences on the future of the Union, and certainly not to conferences where it is already stated in advance that they must not lead to adjustments to the Treaties. No, I am referring to the discussion on the establishment of the Multiannual Financial Framework and how these expenditures should be financed. In this context, the VVD Group warmly welcomed the fact that the government has not only committed itself to a fairer burden sharing but also attaches particular importance to the implementation of reforms linked to support and respect for the principles of the rule of law. This has rightly been presented as a coherent package of decisions. Consistently, my group has insisted that we do not rush into ratifying the present decision. Not out of unwillingness, but to be sure. It seems to us that it is still wise to ratify or notify this decision as the last Member State, for the following three reasons. If the need had really been to the man and the consequences of the covid crisis could only be solved by making more money available, then Member States can turn to the European Stability Mechanism. The ESM has been allocated additional financial resources for more than a year to meet the needs. These resources have not been used so far, despite the favourable conditions. In short, this reason does not convince to hurry. The most obvious conclusion is therefore: the need is less than estimated at first instance, Member States are only interested in free money and/or Member States are unwilling to carry out the necessary reforms. Does the government subscribe to this line of thinking? In addition, my group would like to know to what extent the EU's reform agenda differs from the requirements of the ESM for support programmes. A final question in this context: are there any differences in reform conditions for the loan part of the Recovery and Resilience Facility, compared to the gift part? A second reason why we were not in a hurry was that the Bundesverfassungsgericht was asked whether the agreement was in conformity with German laws and regulations and whether there was no Gesamtverluitung. The court has given a preliminary ruling on this matter, a preliminary ruling. It has argued that it is likely that the Bundestag's budgetary powers will not be infringed. A final judgment is a long time overdue, according to the court, in short, it is not so obvious all of them, but because postponement of ratification could have undesirable consequences, the President of the Federal Republic is authorized to notify ratification. That has happened by now. That is somewhat unsatisfactory. I'd rather have a final verdict. I have a question for the government in this regard. What happens when one of the Member States does not want or can repay the loan? Does this mean an additional contribution from the Netherlands to the EU? Another question, but that is purely out of interest: do the loans concluded affect the EMU balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u13	I am left with the question of why it is so strategically wise to ratify as the last country of the 27. Mr Van Ballekom makes a number of arguments, and I am still a little in the dark about the argument of the German trial that is going on. Two questions. Does he think it's relevant that that case was brought by the AfD? That's one. And two: to what extent should the German court's ruling be relevant to us? Because that simply goes under German law: what is allowed or not allowed within the German constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u14	I come to a third reason, and perhaps that reason is convincing for Mr Backer. Secondly, I should like to know from the Bundesverfassungsgericht whether Gesamtverluitung is involved. Because if that is the case, so is the Netherlands. In that sense, I think it is a relevant reason to wait, but it has already been ratified. That is why I am asking the government if this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u15	I am, of course, anxiously waiting for that third reason, because that may be the decisive one. However, I find it strange that we would make the balancing of our own constitutional judgment here in this country dependent on an opinion from the German Bundesverfassungsgericht. Because the question of whether it is a transfer union or a joint debt settlement has long been answered. The Minister has been asked in detail in the House of Representatives and the European Commission has also given legal advice on this matter. That is not the case. How, then, should the German judge for the Dutch assessment, which the Dutch government itself has already made, be of decisive importance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u16	I have now rephrased the question somewhat, so I am anxiously waiting for the Minister's answer. A second point is that, despite the fact that it may not concern Dutch legislation and the division of powers, I would like to know what the Bundesverfassungsgericht thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u17	Third, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u18	Of course I take note of that statement with interest, but for an own consideration it should not be relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u19	If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u20	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u21	If the Bundesverfassungsgericht (Federal Constitutional Court) had only been aware of this for a week, we would not have been able to ratify the own resources decision at all. In that sense, I think it is all very relevant to put forward as an argument: well, we don't have to rush so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u22	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u23	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to put a questioning form on this, but that's tricky. I find it remarkable that in these discussions the VVD Group, in particular, always puts national powers first, but now, in the very last of the debates, it makes it dependent on the German judge. I would say: let's settle it quickly, because then we have formed our own opinion. I find it very uncomfortable myself, but I hear what Mr Van Ballekom thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u24	I find it very uncomfortable the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u25	Building on it. Of course, it would not have been a problem to wait out of interest what the German Constitutional Court, for example, thinks of this, if it had no consequences. But the result of waiting is that the Netherlands now ratifies as one of the last. How does Mr Van Ballekom see the damage resulting from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u26	If we are the last and there are 24 or 48 hours in between, I don't see so much damage because then it might be a delay of one or two days. This cannot really mean the end of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u27	Does Mr Van Ballekom agree with me that it is incredibly important what picture of a Member State is now in existence? The Netherlands had already gotten quite a bad name because of its negotiating strategy and way of negotiating. Now this is going to be on top of that. Doesn't all that count for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u28	I disagree with you, Mrs Karimi. I do not think that the Dutch position in Brussels is weakened, contrary to what your group thinks. I think, for example, that Poland's and Hungary's misbehaviour is still causing much more reputational damage than the way in which the Netherlands negotiates. And I also think that the weakness of the European institutions can lead to reputational damage. Because if the institutions are not able to implement judgments of the Court of Justice, then something is wrong. And that's what these countries speculate on. So in that sense, in terms of reputation, I find that much more important than the Dutch Government's negotiating commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u29	Mrs. Karimi for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u30	The fact that Poland and Hungary are misbehaving is not a reason why the Netherlands should also be misbehaving. I honestly do not understand that in this argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u32	I don't want to talk about "miscarriage" here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u33	Mr Backer has just said that it is very strange that the VVD should be dependent on Germany's attitude. I think this is the only time this afternoon when I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Backer. After all, I can draw no other conclusion than that Mr Van Ballekom, on behalf of the VVD, acknowledges that the Netherlands is not only a vassal state of Brussels, but is even a vassal street of Germany. He wants us to be dependent on the German position when deciding whether the Netherlands will pay an additional 42 billion to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u34	What's your question, Mr. Van Strien?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u35	From the answer to the question by Mr Van Ballekom, I think I can conclude that he simply acknowledges that we are dependent on Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u36	Well, then you've made the wrong conclusion. A decision on own resources is an important decision that comes once every seven years. If I want to make a decision, I want to be aware of all the ins and outs. One of the elements is the questions put to the Bundesverfassungsgericht. And once you have 27 states in a family, you always depend on one or the other. That doesn't mean you're a vassal state. That's a bit of a weird remark, but every bird sings the way it's beaked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u37	But the conclusion is that we are also dependent on the German Bundesverfassungsgericht in determining whether or not we are participating in the 750 billion pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u38	The VVD Group would like to know all the elements of a decision before we make such a decision. And if your group wants to accord the decision without knowing those elements: go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u39	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u40	I'm getting to the third reason. If it had been mentioned earlier, it might have prevented a lot of questions. A real bone in the throat is that some Member States have felt that they should refer a political agreement to the Court of Justice in Luxembourg within a week of its conclusion. If you think an agreement goes against the treaty, then you simply don't agree. In short, my personal conclusion is that these Member States have agreed to obtain money as soon as possible. They will then take the rule of law with a grain of salt. Mrs Karimi has already given an example of this. In this sense, Poland and Hungary are consistent, because recent judgments of the Court of Justice are simply ignored. And if a ruling by the Court of Justice on treaty violations is not sufficient to suspend the granting of subsidies, then a concluded agreement on the respect of principles of the rule of law is, I wonder. "What a cynicism," I hear the chairman roaring. I'd rather call it "reality sense." Sanctions for non-compliance with agreements on the introduction of the euro have been in the Treaty since Maastricht. These sanctions have never been invoked, despite the fact that France has never complied with the agreements, not to mention Greece and Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u41	I waited until Mr Van Ballekom mentioned his three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u42	Yeah, I've named all three now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u43	Exactly. He said that the Netherlands should be the last to sign this treaty. Much has been said about the Bundesverfassungsgericht, and I very much agree with what Mr Backer said about it. Now Mr Van Ballekom says that countries that have brought a case to the Court of Justice and disagree with this agreement should simply vote against it. But on the first point, about the ESM, he says: all resources are not exhausted yet. As long as that is not the case, you are actually opposed to this own resources decision, and I understand you out of words. And as soon as it turns out that it does, we can be the last to join. If you are against this proposal for all three reasons, you are simply voting against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u44	We don't. We do have a condition, but I'll get to that when I get the opportunity. The fact that nothing has yet been spent on the resources of the ESM means, in our view, that hasting to do with this own resources decision has nothing to do with the lack of money to fight the corona crisis. That can be combated, because that money is there, only it is not used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u45	Mr Van Ballekom can make that observation. But he uses the first argument to draw last. What does that mean? Because even if everyone else has signed, it will probably not be the case that those resources of the ESM have already been spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u47	So that's why the VVD will vote against?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u48	No, then Mr Koole did not listen properly. Firstly, we will not vote against it. Secondly, this is an argument not to rush into action. That's all. It has nothing to do with exhausting or not exhausting the ESM. In the end, we could have decided on this in the negotiations, but that did not happen. But that is no reason to accept a decision on own resources that you do not yet know all the details of, in conjunction with the reform package on the rule of law and the reform of the Recovery and Resilience Facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u49	Mr. Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u50	I understand the VVD doesn't want to rush. But what does that mean for the position of the Netherlands and how other countries look at us? We tend to lecture other countries if they do not comply with certain processes and decisions, and now we just say: we wait for everyone to sign. If someone else hasn't signed, we don't have to do anything anymore, then the treaty is gone. If everyone has signed, then we are signing, even if the resources of the ESM have not yet been exhausted. I believe that in terms of example, this is damaging to the reputation of the Netherlands. Does Mr Van Ballekom agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u51	We disagree on that. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u52	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u53	I have spoken about the sanctions which have never been applied under the Maastricht Treaty, and which have been in force since the Maastricht Treaty, despite the fact that the rules are not being complied with. Secondly, I do not, of course, need to list Article 7 of the Treaty, which deals with the values of the Union. That article has never had any consequences in the event of a breach, despite all attempts. My question to the government is therefore, on the basis of which it concludes that a rule of law provides a better guarantee of decent conduct than a provision of the Treaty. Does a regulation have more legal force than a treaty? Returning to a question that has not yet been answered: can the government give an example of a situation that would lead to a significant financial drain on the Union's budget by violating the principles of law? I can hardly imagine that. That would mean that we were made happy with a dead dog by a string, as my mother-in-law used to say. I count on the creative spirit of the minister and his officials. Moreover, the government should stop saying that there is a direct link between misconduct and the cessation of financial support. This link simply doesn't exist. This is, at least in accordance with this regulation, only when the EU budget is significantly disadvantaged. I read this to my annoyance again in the recently released state of the Union. Mr. Chairman. Then what is the final verdict of the VVD Group, you wonder. This is, of course, partly dependent on this debate, but I am not going to ask questions about the European Commission's lending power, which is accepted by this own resources decision, because the government will say that this is one-off and exceptional. I also have my doubts about this, given the reaction of the Commission and the various Commissioners. There is nothing more permanent than a political initiative. The Commission has always wanted to play the bench. I have personal experience of this and, of course, sees this as a step towards further federalisation. Questions concerning the substance of the own resources decision have already been put in writing and have been answered satisfactorily, for which I would like to thank the Minister and his staff. It's an unnecessarily complicated decision. It could have been much simpler, but in the end it is a fairly balanced package from the point of view of burden-sharing; at least if there is no Gesamtverluitung, but I am still waiting for a reply from the government. As far as I am concerned, the overall package could have been a bit firmer to keep the unwilling ones on track. I keep my doubts, but it goes too far to dismiss the whole as a useless attempt. In short, time will learn and the issues will come back regularly in the debate. The VVD will continue to emphasise the importance of reforms and respect for the principles of rule of law. Without progress in this area, the Union's resilience will not be improved, despite all the conferences on the future. Depending on the answers to the questions asked, this final assessment implies that the overall package is acceptable. However, the content of the regulation should not be watered down further; it is watery enough. That is why I would like to advise the members of my group to agree to the vote next week on one specific condition, namely that the ratification decision should be notified when all other notifications have been lodged with the Secretary-General of the Council, in order to prevent some parliaments from engaging in renegotiation of concluded agreements. We have given some thought to making a link with the cases brought before the Court of Justice, which I consider to be scandalous and uncollective behaviour of the government in question, but when it comes to re-negotiation on the basis of a court ruling, I think that is of a different order than when the case is being stepped up for political reasons. I would therefore consider it correct in this context if, before notification is made, the government informs the Parliament of the progress of ratification procedures in the other Member States. For your information, the ratification process in Finland has recently been suspended for a certain period due to doubts about the agreements on the reform fund. This illustrates that specific parliamentary considerations on the arrangements made determine how they are implemented. It's good to be aware of that. In advance, I would argue that the Chamber should then be given a week's reflection period. Under this condition, I will advise my group to approve the ratification of the present own resources decision. I hope to be able to inform you next week whether this advice will be followed. Should it be the case that some colleagues within my group reach a different opinion, I can understand that. That will not cloud our relations within the group, because a real beauty prize simply does not deserve this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u54	Are you with that at the end of your speech, Mr. Van Ballekom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u55	That brings me to the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u56	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u57	Let me get this straight. I think I understand from the previous speech and also from the end of Mr Van Ballekom's story that he advises his group to agree to what is in the pipeline. At the same time, he says he will also advise his group that the notification should only take place at the very end, so he is the last. Suppose we get word from the minister that, should the First Chamber accept this, he'll be prepared to notify as soon as possible. Is that a reason for the VVD Group to vote against?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u58	We will discuss this very deeply with each other, but it is not yet that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u59	I therefore note that the vote in favour of the VVD Group is not yet certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u60	We would like to vote in favour of the own resources decision, because we have no problem with the decision itself because of a balanced burden-sharing. Fine. The government has presented it as a composite package of measures, reforms, the rule of law and own resources decision. We want to do justice to this composite package and, therefore, to the government's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u61	Mr Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u62	If this Chamber decides to vote in favour of the own resources decision and promises the Minister, for example, to notify the House of this as soon as possible, is that a reason for you to advise your group to vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u63	I have already answered that question, namely that when we do, we will have a very intense discussion within our group in the next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u64	I was also triggered by the double attitude of Mr Van Ballekom, in the sense of: of course we are going to vote in favour if we are the last to state. I think it is important that we quickly clarify what this small clause means with regard to the position of the VVD. In the Lower House several parties abstained from this proposal for several reasons. That could happen here, too. Then it is important to know in time, except that there are intrusive discussions within the VVD.I assume that this is always the case as to what the position of the VVD will be. 'Cause those twelve seats put a lot of weight in the bowl here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u65	It is a little difficult to say before the debate has taken place with the government and before a motion has been tabled: then we are going to do that and that and that and that. Then we do not have to discuss the ins and outs of a package with each other. Then we can just say: we are in favour or against. So let's wait for the debate and see what the government answers. We then take that into account in our final assessment. That's how we always do it at the VVD, but of course I don't know how that goes with your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u66	If colleague Van Ballekom was really a stranger in Jerusalem, you might think: you sometimes just say things that are somewhat contradictory. But this sounded a bit like: of course, Mr Minister, I'm going to support you, but I'm going to throw a little hand grenade that way, in the sense of "if you don't take that into account, boom, away with your own resources'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u67	That hand grenade was not thrown by the VVD group and that hand grenade was not thrown by the Dutch government either. This hand grenade was thrown by Poland and Hungary, who, within a week of reaching a political agreement, felt that they should go to the Court of Justice to take the whole thing down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u68	Mr. Kox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u69	Of course, it is done in private, but I look forward to the debate in the VVD group, but I hope that this Chamber will hear in due course what Mr Van Ballekom's small nuance behind his 'yes of course we are going to vote in favour' means, because that can have a lot of consequences in this house. But it just gets more exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u70	I can hear war language flying through this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u71	I didn't start that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u72	I know Mr Van Ballekom as someone who is very much involved in European affairs and I hear between the lines a great deal of criticism of this unfortunate deal. Now that we're using war language, I'm also tasting disagreement in the VVD bunker. In your view, it is an open matter within the VVD Group, I understand. Since the situation here is very different from that on the other side and given the divisions that seem to exist within the VVD, I think it would be wise to ask for a roll-call vote on this proposal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u73	I do not know whether Mr Otten has been present at our group meeting, but we have discussed this input from me, the discussions on the own resources decision and the reform regulation well. This input has been accepted, so there is no disagreement, and not every group can say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u74	In our group there has never been any disagreement, as I would like to inform Mr Van Ballekom. I heard him say earlier that it had not yet been decided in the group and that each could take its own course on this matter. You said that at first, didn't you? We could check out the Acts. I heard that clearly, so what about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u75	As I said, we are in favour of the own resources decision, because it provides for a fair distribution of the burden. We have no problem with that, but we do have a problem with the attitude and behaviour of partners. If we have made it clear that Poland and Hungary have ratified and notified the case, then we will at least close the way for a parliamentary procedure to call for the government to return to Brussels in order to re-examine the rule of law or the reform regulation with the partners. I'd like to avoid that. For, as I said in my speech, I find the package as such acceptable, although it could have been more robust, but should not water it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u76	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u77	We await the VVD's deliberations with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u78	Do I understand correctly that you are already requesting a roll-call vote? Or do you consider doing that and will we hear it in time? You haven't asked for it yet, I understand from you, then we'll go to Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u79	I was just chewing on the strategy of wanting to be the last. There is a proverb: the last will be the first. I am making it clear that this is not the case at the moment. You have actually said, summarise the discussion, that you will vote in favour, although you have a number of reservations. That is not really such a smart strategy, I think, when you say that you want to be the last one to oversee the playing field and then make a decision. Are you not afraid that if you choose this strategy, you will also lose some direction about the debate in Europe? Isn't that a bad thing in itself? May I seduce you, of course, to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u80	Mr. Van Ballekom, please give me a brief answer, because there are a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u81	If you state without knowing what the outcome is in Poland and Hungary, and perhaps also in Finland, where the reform fund is now being discussed, I think you will lose control rather than wait. That 'wait a moment', Mr President, I am glad that you are intervening in my speech is 'for other reasons'. That "wait a moment" can never be so important that it is at stake from the European Union or from the Member State concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u82	Game theory, a term you know: if everyone wanted to be the last in the debate, in the decision-making process, it would lead to anarchy and chaos. Aren't you afraid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u83	Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u84	Finally, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u85	Do you have a reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u86	The Netherlands is just a reliable partner. If each of the 27 Member States were as reliable as the Netherlands, it would be much better in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u87	Mrs. Karimi, can you stick to one question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u88	If I get a straight answer, sure. It was also discussed in the Lower House, in my view also by the VVD group. At that time, I think the Minister said that he will indeed notify it later. So I'm a little surprised that you're making it this big. What's the strategy behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u89	We just want clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u90	So you're actually asking the Minister to confirm what he said earlier in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u91	I'd love that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u92	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u93	I can be very brief about that with one question. I agree with Mrs Karimi. I have here the Acts and read one sentence. I quote the Minister: if we are to deal with this in a prudent and sensible way, heard Mrs De Vries. That was all about the notification. Are you satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u94	No, I'm not satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u95	That's what I wanted to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u96	I don't think that's very specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u97	Okay. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u98	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u99	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the European Union's new seven-year plan, the multi-annual financial framework, the own resources decision. This is an extremely expensive package for the Netherlands, partly due to an ill-thought-out, rash and uneconomic negotiating strategy of the Rutte cabinet and Minister Hoekstra. A phenomenon we saw earlier in the unthought-out political investment of 744 million in KLM, early 2019, by this minister, which also violated the law, the General Court ruled afterwards. And then we and passerby by this cabinet have also been messed up in a vague National Growth Fund of 20 billion. This money can be used much better to forgive the tax debts incurred by Dutch SME entrepreneurs andzzp'ers as a result of the corona crisis with a generic waiver scheme so that the economy gets a kick start and can recover from the corona crisis. An idea that even the minister's predecessor, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, is now in favour of, we recently saw at Buitenhof. In fact, this EUR 750 billion recovery plan is best summed up by the slogan "we are going to fight the corona crisis with windmills and sun meadows'. At least 30% of the total expenditure has to be spent on the megalomaniac green deal of Commissioner Timmermans, as clearly stated in Article A21, for those who want to read it. After some vague remarks were initially made, Commissioner Timmermans simply admitted this in a consultation that a delegation from our Chamber had with him on 22 September last year. In that consultation, I congratulated Commissioner Timmermans on the many flies he has now smacked into the guise of restoring the corona crisis, which came for Timmermans as a gift from heaven. His Green Deal is now immediately funded under the guise of a recovery plan for the corona crisis. In addition, a debt union has been rigged up and a transfer union and we as the Netherlands have now crossed the Rubicon by entering into common debts. Something the government agreement of this outgoing cabinet stated that this should not be allowed to happen under any circumstances. With a lot of semantic smokescreens, the various rulers and the Prime Minister are trying to throw our eyes at us and convince us that no common debt has been incurred. But just as our group sees it, the other EU Member States see it, the French President Macron sees it and the international capital markets see it, fortunately the Council of State does not fall for it either. Article 9 (5) of the EMB gives the European Commission the right to make additional requests to other Member States to cover a Member State that is unable to comply. The Council of State is ready to consider this: "It follows from these provisions that the financial risks ultimately do not affect the Union's finances, but those of the Member States. In addition, a Member State should guarantee not only the obligations of the Union in proportion to its own share, but also, where appropriate, those of one or more other Member States. The possible consequences for the Netherlands can therefore be considerable." The Council of State also indicates that the qualitative and quantitative impact of this guarantee on the Netherlands is not now sufficient and not sufficiently clear-cut by the Cabinet. Our question to the Minister is: how much is the Netherlands hanging in a worst case scenario "on the hook" for this common debt? I'd like a clear and concrete answer, without the usual smokescreens. The Council of State also clearly indicates that there is a precedent and paradigm shift. I quote the Council of State once again: "The EMB has an important precedent. It is now clear from the EMB that the Treaty provisions do not stand in the way of, for example, the introduction of the eurobond system, the so-called Eurobonds." The Rutte cabinet brought the Netherlands into this unfortunate situation and sold this deal to the people with a story about a so-called emergency brake, which in practice is nothing. If you pull this emergency brake from Rutte in The Hague, the fully loaded European debt train will not even stop in Brussels, but will go on to somewhere in the Mediterranean. Not only have we as the Netherlands been messing up this expensive deal by the cabinet, but the Netherlands, the only one of the 27 EU Member States, has recently not submitted a plan to receive money from this pot. In doing so, the Netherlands misses a sloppy EUR 6 billion. You're not making it up! While the Italians quickly called Mario Draghi back from his pension to submit a plan for the 30 April 2021 deadline. Draghi immediately switched on McKinsey and presented a plan of over 200 billion in time for digitisation, greening and fast trains. But the Netherlands didn't submit anything and thus misses 6 billion euros. If at least a plan had been submitted for the Lelyline, this recovery plan would have been helpful. The cost of the Lelyline is budgeted at EUR 3.5 to 6 billion, so you could have paid exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u100	I have two questions for Mr Otten. After condemning the plan in fairly clear terms, he was surprised that the Netherlands did not apply. It's two-and-a-half. Either you think it's a good plan and you're in, or you don't think it's a good plan and you're out. How does Mr Otten see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u101	I come to that because I warned Minister Blok extensively and asked him extensively in this Chamber on 3 November 2020. I also made it clear at that time that we are not in favour of this plan. That is something Mr Backer can look back on. I looked back on him myself. We don't think this plan solves the corona crisis. The corona crisis is simply being used to finance the Green Deal through a debt and transfer union. Well, that's conveniently done. For the Netherlands, we don't think this is a good deal. The fact is that Rutte cabinet thinks that this is the way to combat the corona crisis. If you then contribute to such a deal, at least make sure you get money back. That is my question to the Minister: exactly how much do we pay for it? I myself estimate that around 9 billion to 10 billion a year simply disappears to other countries. So it wouldn't have been our deal, but apparently the VVD is going to vote for it, despite the objections, but once it's there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u102	You're gonna get on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u103	...you're gonna have to take the money that's in there right now. Or does Mr Backer think otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u104	I understand that you will come up with this further in the course of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u105	I heard the answer. Mr Otten is in this business, as I understand. If it's gonna come, we're gonna have to make a plan. I had a second question, if I may, about transfer union, Eurobonds and the Council of State. The written procedure in the House of Representatives clearly covered: is there now joint and several liability of the Member States? The Minister's answer to that is no. Mr Otten has undoubtedly read it. Is that answer incorrect, or does it have a different interpretation of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u106	Well, you're referring to joint and several liability. I also read that the answer would be no. But the Council of State does say that Member States can also be liable to other Member States if they cannot fulfil their obligations. That is a slightly different variant of the joint and several liability that Mr Backer is referring to. But it's starting to look a lot like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u107	Finally. You know the concept, of course. That just means you're at the bar for the missing part. This is a very short construction, but I am sure the Minister will be able to explain this better, in which case the European Commission may be able to encrypt the total of the European budget in the event of final deficits. However, the Member States must agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u108	What I'm saying is a pretty far-reaching variant, which doesn't exactly resemble the joint and several liability you're referring to. But it's going a long way. And the question is of course also: if the Netherlands has not asked for its 6 billion, what is the case now, where is the money going? Is that going to the other Member States? Will they get more? That is also a question we would like to ask the Minister. I didn't happen to include this in my story, but now that you put it that way, that's a very good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u109	My questions have been answered, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u110	Thank you. Please continue your argument, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u111	Mr Backer said: you are in business. That's right. We want a more business-oriented, assertive direction towards the EU. I don't think we ever made a secret out of that either. So that observation is correct. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. When I warned Minister Blok on 3 November 2020, during the General European Reviews in this Chamber, that the Netherlands had to submit a plan for the 6 billion by 30 April, because otherwise the Netherlands would miss that money, I got the answer from Minister Blok: The Netherlands is a rich country; we don't need the money. Well... the Netherlands will pay with it, will incur common debts, will guarantee other Member States, but will be the only country to leave EUR 6 billion, by refusing to submit an application. How weird do you want it? In this way, a rich country quickly makes you a poor country. How's the Minister gonna handle this? This injustice is unacceptable. Does the Minister have a plan and, if so, what is the plan and when can this Chamber see that plan? I'd like a concrete answer without detours. It is clear that our group does not welcome this very bad outcome for the Netherlands, which is now turning out to be the worst of both worlds. Pay me back, but don't pick up any money. It is high time that the Netherlands embarked on a more assertive course in Brussels and started to stand up more decisively for Dutch interests. We look forward to the discussion with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u112	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Strien, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the European Union's new own resources decision. Normally the PVV already has the necessary resistance repulsion, may I say against these transfer laws to transform money from northern to southern Europe. That's what today's about. This time, however, it is even more colourful and blunter, because in addition to the regular budget, this time we also have the EUR 750 billion Restoration Fund in grants and loans for weak Member States, to which the Netherlands must contribute EUR 43 billion, of which EUR 23 billion are gifts for other Member States. And the loans -- we're standing at 20 billion guarantees -- we're also lost. As far as the budget is concerned, we note that it is again more than the previous period and that we must pay extra for the departure of the United Kingdom. Instead of leaving the bureaucratic monstrosities called EU, we are going to pay extra for the departure, the liberation, of the United Kingdom: 65 billion in total over the next seven years, i.e. 9 billion a year. New EU taxes will then be added. The plastic tax is a harbinger of even more EU taxes. These additional taxes are intended to finance either the ever-growing bureaucracy in Brussels or to transfer more money from north to south. Mr. Chairman. Italy has been laughing, especially Mr Draghi, the new Prime Minister since February. First, from the ECB, he has ensured that they do not have to pay interest in Italy on the huge debt mountain they have by simply making interest negative, so that they are now getting money for their existing debts. Now he's working out how to spend 192 billion from the Recovery Fund. That is not easy at all, because Italy is simply very rich. Italians are much richer than Dutch, as the ECB published in the Household Finance and Consumer Survey a few years ago. One of the plans is to extend the high-speed line from Salerno to the south, to the tip of the boot. As the south grows, the whole of Italy grows, Draghi said about it in the Italian parliament. But we also know that as southern Italy grows, so does the Mafia. Giovanni Bombardieri, Chief Prosecutor in Southern Cabria, who has been investigating fraud involving European subsidies for years and has led many anti-Mafia action in his region, warns: if European subsidies go this way, then an urgeheta has an interest in this. At least we know where our hard-earned pennies are. The provinces of Drenthe, Flevoland, Friesland and Groningen can for the time being forget their 9.5 billion in investment in rail links. The Dutch Government needs that money to finance rail links in southern Italy. I would like to ask the Minister how he can take responsibility for this. Mr. Chairman. A year ago it was called that the Prime Minister would not experience gifts for southern Europe. The gifts are of an unprecedented size. A year ago, the European Treaty did not allow the EU to borrow on a joint account. It's a legal trick now, isn't it? A year ago it was called a reduction in agricultural subsidies. But, yes, only the Dutch agricultural sector is really efficient, so that did not happen and that is never going to happen. Inefficient agriculture in southern Europe is permanently subsidised. A year ago it was still called for a proportional reduction in the overall budget with Britain's departure. Despite Britain's departure, the European budget increased by more than 100 billion. A year ago it was said that the Dutch contribution would be fair in proportion to GNI. But EU revenue through so-called own resources, with a disproportionate share of the Netherlands, increases every round of negotiations. A year ago it was still called for clear milestones and targets to be set. The Netherlands wanted to indicate clear targets, wanted progress to be monitored and wanted an emergency braking procedure to be initiated if the agreements were not to be met. But something like that isn't there. Mr. Chairman. All this is happening under the guise of solving the problems caused by corona. This really is a farce. While in recent years the Dutch households have been structurally behind, health care has been broken down, so that we have to ask for ic-spots in Germany, while pensions have been frozen for ten, twelve years, which means that pensioners are now lagging behind 20%, while every year 100,000 lucky seekers are pouring into this country, leaving us with a housing shortage of 1 million homes that nobody knows where and with what money they need to build, while there is no money for care staff and police to pay them adequately, we are now going to bring billions to southern Europe. It is a disgrace if this waste of money is approved. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that the PVV does not participate in squeezing out our own people for the benefit of the rest of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u114	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I shall now give the floor to Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the final act of the national approval of the decision of the European Council agreed by the Dutch Government. As discussed earlier this morning, there are two main topics: the seven-year revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery and Resilience Fund, the one-off recovery fund. A Community financial facility is hereby established. Mr. Chairman. This has been followed by an interinstitutional agreement within the European institutions, and I have to exercise that agreement on 16 December between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. The basic document has not really been discussed yet, but it is still very relevant. It is Regulation 2021/241 establishing the recovery and resilience facility. Mr. Chairman. Before we talk about the further expenses, I'd like to name the windfall. I read that the Netherlands is getting back EUR 101 million from the 2020 budget because of the EU budget surplus. Perhaps that is a positive point that Mr Van Ballekom can take into account in next week's group meeting. This windfall is inherent in the budgetary system which Mr Van Ballekom also knows very well. He also appointed it himself: once every seven years there is a recurring chair dance, first out of the 28 now out of the 27 where Member States have to agree on a multiannual framework. Unless the budget is increased, this is rarely possible, but is now being done, the capacity to change existing budgets is limited. In that respect, it is not very different from the Dutch budgets. People like to keep what's going on. If there's no extra chair to keep up that metaphor, then you can't sit on it. The efforts of the Dutch Government, as has just been mentioned, were difficult to achieve. If you want to keep the budget right or lower it and you have wishes for the budget lines, then you have no additional trump cards. Mr Van Ballekom pointed out to the European General Reviews in November that the outcome is about 85% old policy. Those are old budget lines. There are, however, some important positive changes: an increase in the budget for science, research and also for European border surveillance. The European Parliament has also added 15 billion for Europe Horizon and Erasmus. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debates on Europe, we, the D66 Group, mentioned the MFF contribution as an insurance premium for peace, security and prosperity. In our view, it is a real and proportional premium. I can predict that this is not the opinion of Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u116	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Strien to confirm or deny this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u117	Mr Backer calls it an advantage that more money goes to science. I worked at Utrecht University for 25 years. I have seen how much money the European subsidies cost the Netherlands. I have seen how many years, years in, years out, scientists have had to make an effort to apply to the European Community for money. The only fixed rule here is that there must be a South European to get that money out. To what extent can Mr. Van...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u118	Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u119	... Mr. Backer say it's an advantage that extra money goes to science instead of just giving that money like the Netherlands directly to your universities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u120	There are two comments to be made. Mr Van Strien speaks from his own experience. Statistically this is: N=1. Anyway, it could be relevant experience. The second point is that he says: they spend a great deal of time on it. Here you assume that there is no shortage of money in the Netherlands. This means that there is money for all applications for the science budget made in the Netherlands. Yes, that can be done if the Dutch budget makes those choices, but that is not the case so far. This is separate from the fact that the time you spend filing applications is actually a waste of time. You'd like to spend that time differently. Anyway, it has to be done. You can also look at what happened to money for European science. Ben Feringa, our Nobel Prize winner, said in an interview: without European money, I could not have done my studies. I checked it again. Recently, between the years 2011 and 2017, Delft University alone has been able to get 450 million out of the European pot for doing research. This could, of course, have come from the national budget, but then the money could not have gone anywhere else. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u121	Then the money doesn't go anywhere else? It goes first to Brussels and then part of it comes back! That money will only come back if you involve South Europeans. How can that be an advantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u122	I do not think I need to explain to Mr Van Strien that if you put money in a pot with each other, an allocation of resources can take place, after which the final amount you get back is higher than the money you put in. You can, of course, mark everything, as Mr Van Strien does, and then say: sin, why do we do this? That means you should do everything nationally. I know that this is Mr Van Strien's view, but I believe in the added value of a European scientific exchange of money, knowledge and commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u123	Mr. Van Strien, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u124	I also believe in exchange based on knowledge, with universities with which you set something up together, but I do not believe in exchange through Brussels. I think we will continue to differ on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u125	I would be surprised if I had heard anything else from Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u126	I almost fell off my chair when I heard Mr Backer say that this package is so good for science. About one of the very first reactions when this plan was launched in July last year, came from Pieter Duisenberg. He is of the Association of Universities and is a former MP of the VVD. He indicated that the Horizon programme was cut by 5 billion. On the contrary, the collaborative scientific European programme has been greatly affected by this EMB decision, the Resilience Facility and all the 390 billion in donations to southern Europe. So how can you say that with dry eyes, I ask Mr Backer through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u127	I do not now have the number that finally emerged after the European Parliament's intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u128	Five billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u129	You could also have read our response. Then you do not even have to quote Mr Duisenberg. The reaction of my fellow party members across the street was also disappointing about the fact that it was disappointing. But at the same time: I started my story with the discussion that if you don't want to make up for yourself and you have to move into the posts between you, you might get wrong. Mr Otten puts his finger on the sore spot. We would have liked it to have been much higher on this point. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u130	Okay, it is very good to note that for scientific education in the European Union this deal is a deterioration. So I agree with Mr Backer. It's good to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u131	Mr. Chairman. I have said before, in a previous debate, that we, the Netherlands, are reaping the benefits of the common market. We have just had a brief debate on this. I think it is important that we continue to talk about this in order to reflect future discussions on own resources. A motion for a resolution has been adopted in the debate of the European Reviews (Doc. 35403, letter E. That's the Barker motion c.s. It calls for research into the benefits of the EU for our country. You may remember that discussion. The Foreign Minister did not encourage this on behalf of the government, but the motion was accepted and he initiated that investigation. I'm grateful to him for that. On 22 February we received a progress letter (35403, letter P). That was in itself a case of the glass is half full. The study is done by the CPB in collaboration with the CBS. The internal market is compared with the situation if there is no internal market for goods and services. What is the contribution to prosperity? And what would be the scenario if that internal market were to be missing? I thank the government for that commitment. I would very much like to know whether there is any progress on that first exploration and whether any insights have been obtained there, because we are already in May. Mr. Chairman. Now I get to the other half. The broad welfare effects would also be considered. As the letter states, they have been left out "for methodological reasons." I find that disappointing. The Minister, I think "the Minister" is the coordinating Minister for Foreign Affairs, is in conversation with the three planning agencies, but there is not much to tell yet. That's how I translate it. That could be an official formulation before the case disappears into a desk drawer, a sort of yes minister reply. However, I would like to urge this Minister not to leave it at that and to see whether that second part of the study is going to be successful and, if so, in what time. If this cannot be done in detail today, it can also be done in writing. The subject is important. Mr. Chairman. With this small detour I come to the conclusion of the MFK section. I will advise the group to support the legislation without ringing or ringing, without conditions. I also think that the group council will develop successfully. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join the Recovery Fund. The European Parliament is a participant in that agreement on own resources. There is also European responsibility. There are competent committees... Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u132	It's a test; just carry on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u133	Okay. There are competent committees that can invite the European Commission to discuss issues relating to the progress of the facility every two months. The European Commission must take into account European Parliament resolutions adopted there. It is now up to us to carry out the national review. An important question is, of course, whether it is legitimate. Or has a step been taken outside the treaty frameworks? This was discussed in the discussion with Mr Van Ballekom. The Council of State hinted on this and on possible precedents. The government has investigated this, has been asked for it in the House of Representatives and has said: no, that is possible. I've done some research and research myself. I have also reread the regulation. It goes along the lines of "Can this happen? Can the European Commission and other European institutions issue a regulation if it goes beyond the framework of the Convention?'. There is actually a very interesting recital in that regulation, under No. 17. It says that there is actually no instrument that directly provides support for Member States to achieve the objectives of European Semester, such as sustainability and social resilience. Article 3 of the regulation specifies the six objectives. That is indeed a confirmation for those who say 'yes, but this is a whole new thing'. It is something new, because in the context of the fight against pandemics, the opinion was that investment and support should be provided throughout the European Union. I think it has just been said by Mr Karimi: it is of course relatively small compared to the American intervention. It will take us a very long time, especially if we want to be the last to decide. Mr. Chairman. Ultimately, our political conclusion is that it is desirable to do so. We also discussed this with the Minister in the supplementary budget last summer. We think it has been a pity that we have made this a matter of money. Anyway, let's not stir that up again. As a result, two elements have become very prominent: the emergency brake, which is actually more of a pause button after the Minister's answers, and the rule of law test. In itself, they are legitimate subjects, both of them, but I think they have gotten a little out of context because of that discussion. Anyway, the package has been agreed. It's acceptable. That was it for the House of Representatives and the European Parliament. It's also a total package, so you can't take anything out of it; then you'd be at the bar for more. If that happens, it'll be politically dead. The Finns could still do that and I believe the Hungarians, but in Germany it has passed. That is an important country, I learned again this morning. Mr. Chairman. I have one more concern. Does the European Commission have sufficient administration and experience in the field of loans to do so? ESM exists, but ESM is another instrument and has another objective. I would like to know about the Minister. Finally, it was mentioned earlier, including in the little debate with Mr Otten: why have we not yet submitted plans? I can see the minister's watching. Here he comes. The car's in the P, I feel like. Is that because preparations are being made and, if so, which ones? What are the country-specific recommendations therein? And what issues seem to block their submission? Mr. Chairman. I hope, however, that we will not be mentioned in the annual reports that are to be published as the country that has not yet submitted anything. The first evaluation was carried out on 20 February 2024. I hope that we will be included in the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u134	Indeed, in my term, I also spoke about the government's unsubstantiated plans. In the Lower House, the Minister mentioned the formation as an argument: we await the formation. The formation takes a long time, maybe too long. Does Mr Backer agree with me that the States-General are missionary and are able to say, at the time when the outgoing government comes up with a plan, that is a good plan; you can submit it? So don't wait until the next government arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u135	I understand Mr Karimi's thinking in this way, at least in my own words, that the government should also be able to present a plan in a missionary state. And then the States General is man enough to judge whether that is in line with the missionary status or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u136	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u137	But if you don't submit it, you're gonna catch up. I remember there were times... I remember that in the spring agreement, when Minister Jan Kees de Jager had to present a plan. I think the cabinet was also a missionary at the time. At that time, very far-reaching proposals were made in cooperation with the constructive opposition, including the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u138	Does that mean... My proposal to the Minister was: come forward with that plan, for example before 1 July. Then it can be discussed in the Lower House and, if necessary, in the Upper Chamber and then the government can submit the plan. I note from Mr Backer's answer that he thinks that is a very good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u139	Yes. I think it would also be a good test of the new governance culture and the cooperative attitude that is developing in the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u140	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u141	Then I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u142	Mr Backer says to the Minister: are there any plans or why are there no plans? That's a good question; we'll get an answer to that. But D66 could also come up with plans in the new culture that is developing. We've even made plans, together with all of us. The two Chambers have said that there is a heavy burden on health, where salaries are structurally lagging behind; they need to be increased. In both chambers it has been stated that there should be a structural improvement in that position of health workers. Could that be such a plan? Last week we debated the fact that 139 municipalities are now in financial need and need financial restructuring to recover. These are two concrete plans for which there seems to be a majority in both houses. Would that be something? In this way, we are helping the Minister, who is already in such a difficult situation. In this way we are helping him with a number of concrete plans that we have already said yes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u143	That's an interesting thought. The European regulation in this area actually starts with the country-specific recommendations. There are a few "evergreens" in there that keep coming back, and we are moving forward, but it turns out to be very difficult. I refer to the labour market, health care, the housing market and, of course, aggressive tax planning. I find the issue of local authorities somewhat difficult to assess, because that is, of course, also a question of internal financing in our own country. I do not know if we need European money for that. However, I believe that issues such as the housing market, the rents, the structuring of the labour market and taxation cannot be missing from that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u144	We are not yet at the end of this debate and we are not yet voting on it. But it gets more interesting, even for my group, if we heard: okay, what could happen in the Netherlands through this recovery fund, with what economic and social consequences? Let me say again: care has been found to be overburdened. That's only gotten worse in corona time. So doing something about that would be a proper economic and social recovery measure. So if we can talk about this with other groups that have already said in two Chambers that something needs to be done in this area, it will certainly be more interesting for us; let me put it this way to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u145	I think that the primacy for such a debate lies across the street. A Ploumen/Klaver motion has also been adopted there. I believe that the SP Group has also voted in favour of this motion, and we have voted in favour of it. And by "we," I mean the colleagues across the street. There, of course, I think there is a bit of a basis for such a plan. Anyway, I think I... In the end, it's hard to write a plan with a State General. It seems to me that the initiative should lie with the government. But there are a number of directions that we have just discussed and I think they will occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u146	The plan. In this deal you can see very well how assertive southern Europe is acting. First they manage to negotiate a deal where they get most of the gifts. Then, for example, Italy calls Draghi back very pragmatically. He's pretty much the most famous Italian in the world, maybe except for a football player. And within no time, a plan is submitted and they take that money. And I do not think I have heard that the whole Italian economy is being reformed and that there has suddenly been a lot of reform in the last three months. So, of course, the Netherlands could have submitted that plan and could have said: well, those reforms, which we are working on, and you will hear about them from us. That's probably how the Italians did it. So this is where the "best-boy-of-the-class behavior" of the Netherlands is vengeful. And you see: you get cut negotiating the deal, and now you don't get that 6 billion by wanting to follow the rules, which no one else does. How does Mr Backer see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u147	Mr. Otten always has a bit of a focus on: you can't win. If you want to be the best boy in the class, you can't win, and if you don't play well, you don't play well. Yeah? And his premise that there are no reforms in the Italian package is incorrect. I do not know the details of the package, but I know that Mr Draghi is proposing a number of major interventions. In the end, the reform part, but also the distributions on greening, digitalisation and those aspects should be reviewed by the Commission in accordance with the Regulation. They also end up in the European Council. The prime minister or prime minister is in there. And now the second point: why do we not? I think we've already exchanged that. We actually regret that and urge the government to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u148	The Italians are much more pragmatic: they are submitting a plan and they are also using it on reforms. At least they will have a starting point, which will allow them to negotiate further. We just gave it away right away by not submitting anything. Does Mr Backer agree with me that, from the point of view of a negotiating strategy, this is very ill-considered and uneconomic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u149	Mr Otten wants to put words like 'uneconomic' and 'unthought-out' in my mouth. No. Anyway, I just said, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Then you're in that conversation. I'm confident that's gonna happen eventually. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u150	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u151	We now only note that the deadline of 30 April was missed by one of the 27 Member States, and that is the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u152	I have to correct that, something the Minister will do otherwise. But there are no deadlines, there are submission dates, but you can use them at different times. It's not like we missed our chance. The Dutch Government has decided to do so, but I think that the Minister will explain this to us in order not to submit anything at this time. But we haven't lost our chance. I'm gonna have to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u153	But we'll get the money later than others, if we still request it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u154	You're done, I understand. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Frentrop, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u155	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a lot of money, almost 1,100 billion for the regular European budget. On top of that, we are talking about another 750 billion for something sold as a corona repair fund, but at least 70% has nothing to do with corona or recovery. A chocolate bar must contain a certain amount of cocoa before you can call it "chocola," but it does not apply to European recovery funds. There doesn't have to be a recovery in that. I am not talking about all the euros that the European Central Bank is pumping into the economy to grow them, all at the expense of our pensioners. So, together, we are talking about more than EUR 2,000 billion. Those are more euros than there are stars in our galaxy. In fact, the Forum for Democracy on this whole megalomaniac plan has only one question for the minister, the government. What is the point of all this for the Netherlands? What are we gonna get in return for this? What's in it for us? We've really studied the plans, but we can't find anything in them that's good for the Netherlands. So my main question is really: why on earth? Then I have a few more detailed questions. Well, "detail questions"-- they all go over more than 100 billion. The first question concerns the regular seven-year budget, which is over 1100 billion. This is a little more than last time, although a large part of the European Union has left. The United Kingdom is gone. We would have expected a smaller budget, all the more so since the European Union has not been able to make up the money of the last seven years, including 1000 billion. There's 300 billion left. The Prime Minister didn't know that when we asked him about it in October, but he really did. In the 1,100 billion there are all kinds of things that apparently don't change every seven years. A third of that budget goes back to agriculture, but I have not heard from the government about the relationship with the nitrogen crisis in the Netherlands, which would mean that agriculture would have to halve at least, according to some political groups. That is why my first question to the Minister is this: has there been any connection in the negotiations on the European budget between the 356 billion for agriculture in EU spending over the next seven years and the problems for agriculture in this densely populated Netherlands? One more substantive question about the seven-year budget. Another third of this budget goes to cohesion. This is already transferring more wealthy countries to less prosperous countries on paper. 378 billion goes there. That's happening all over again. Why? This is not discussed, while last year's unused EU expenditure amounted to a record amount of EUR 298 billion, as calculated by the European Court of Auditors. He said that this was because the poorer Member States were unable to absorb that Brussels aid money with approved projects, such as the construction of infrastructure that would have allowed those poorer European countries to reduce their economic backwardness to the rest. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dus waarom dan weer opnieuw die 378 miljard in het normale budget?]] Then we haven't talked about the extras yet. I'd say less. But in Brussels people think the opposite. Because of corona... there we have it again, but it's not really because of corona.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And something new has been devised, that 750 billion recovery fund, 70% of which has nothing to do with corona, but is based on the size of the population, prosperity and unemployment. 70% of that 750 billion is 525 billion extra transfers from us to those poor countries, on top of the ordinary portion of nearly 400 billion, and that is on top of the almost 300 billion they have not been able to eat in the last seven years. What all this brings to the Netherlands cannot be calculated by the Forum for Democracy. Well, we can count on it, but then we get to zero. What all these plans are going to cost the Netherlands, we cannot, like the Council of State, calculate exactly. I would therefore like to focus my final question on the costs of the guarantee scheme that the Netherlands is going to incur in the context of the next generation EU, which is probably referred to as such because the debts incurred for this are to be repaid by the next generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u156	Colleague Frentrop says in a minor way: the yield for the Netherlands is then zero. Didn't I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u158	But he can't be serious, can he? Surely it cannot be that the Netherlands, as one of the countries that has excessive benefits from the internal market and therefore from investments made in other parts of Europe which transport goods to Rotterdam and which Dutch banks invest in again, has zero benefit from this? He can't keep that up intellectually, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u159	Mr Backer asked for a study on exactly how much it is. So we're gonna wait and see, but I'm gonna tell you what my estimate is. And you're making it a little different from the way I mean it. My question is what the 750 billion that we're putting in extra in fake corona support is going to get us. What is the EUR 1 100 billion to which we are also contributing and which goes to agriculture and cohesion funds going to bring us? If I see that now, I see zero, but I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Dutch Government sees any revenue for the Netherlands. And the port of Rotterdam continues as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u160	I am anxiously waiting for the Minister's answer, but it can never end at zero, I am setting it for myself. And we are also waiting for the study; then Mr Frentrop may be able to vote even more positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u161	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to 2058, the year I hope to be 104 and then I can tell my grandchildren: I told you, that Hoekstra sent all that money to Europe and we didn't get it back. I am looking forward to that, but I have to wait another 40 years for it. What's it gonna cost us? The Minister has calculated the Dutch share of the guarantees to 27.4 billion euros for 2021, but, he wrote, this amount may change. Indeed, we are not only guaranteeing the amount we are putting in, but we are also guaranteeing the other Member States, if I understand correctly. I have the feeling that if, for example, Spain does not pay back its share in time, Brussels will come to us and ask if we cannot advance the Spanish deficit. Then it seems that the Netherlands has signed a blank cheque. So I'm asking the Minister to explain this. What is the maximum amount guaranteed by the Netherlands? If everything is disappointing, if all the other Member States do not do what they have promised, what can the Netherlands do? Worst-case scenario, that's the whole 750 billion of next generation. Maybe it's less, but I'd like to hear that from the Minister. The amount mentioned by the Minister will be set against the proceeds we can expect from the plans. I still see zero, but maybe I'm convinced. So less than 750 billion in costs and more than zero returns, I hope. On this basis, we in the group will unanimously decide our opinion, and I note that last week the great debate began on the future of the European Union, a future that is uncertain but we are supposed to pay now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u162	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Then I give the floor to Mr Ester, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. It does me good, if I may begin with, to be allowed to speak again after a few months of illness. Thank you to the political groups, colleagues, Registry and rulers for their condolences. The First Chamber may become more and more political, yet there is something of a solid base of camaraderie. That too can be said out loud. Mr. Chairman. The first question to be asked in the own resources decision concerns the proportionality of the package of measures, a fund of no less than 750 billion, a combination of loans and grants. Our first question is: what is the added value of the loan for Member States? They can also benefit from low interest rates on international capital markets. What exactly is the advantage for these countries? Is the interest rate at which the European Commission can borrow significantly lower than that for individual Member States? Are the repayment conditions more favourable? Can the Minister share a math example here? A number of draft recovery plans have now been submitted by Member States. We were just talking about that. What can the Minister say if he reviews these plans? Is this mainly about claims on the grant component of the Recovery Fund? My group is also reading about this, and we have just talked about the fact that our country will register for the subsidy part of around EUR 6 billion. We also read there was the discussion about the resignation of the cabinet this year to waive claims to the Restoration Fund. But the question is, of course, how exactly this balance was made. What happens if the ceiling on resources is reached in the first round? What does this mean for the Dutch application? Of course, we should not get in the way of a new cabinet, but our structural priorities for recovery are rather clear. Mr Backer mentioned this in connection with an interruption. Think of countering the fluctuating labour market, the large cut-off in the housing market, meeting our climate goals, bringing energy transition closer and the worrying position of young people, to mention just a few examples. Don't you think we're gonna leave opportunities by passing our turn now? The Council of State has also commented on this. I'd like a response. The Christian Union Group has many questions about the EMB, but under the line we advocate a combination of solidarity and sobriety. Solidarity with southern Member States in particular is an integral part of our vision of Europe and thus of the Recovery Fund. The Italian and Spanish people, as may be said, have had to pay a high price for the economic crisis in the last decade and for the covid crisis that is currently afflicting Europe. Their labour market sucks. There has been substantial cuts in pension provision, the tourism sector has collapsed and a social tragedy is threatening, especially for the youngest generation in those countries. My group wants to take responsibility. We must help those countries to reverse this tragedy. You call on a European Union as a value community, firmly rooted in the Jewish-Christian tradition, also creates obligations towards vulnerable Member States. Public justice must be leading here. We are talking about equality, justice, solidarity and, of course, peace and freedom. I want to mark that here again. We will not leave those countries that are in danger to their fate. We're not gonna let their populations deteriorate. That is simply at odds with the European idea. It is precisely now that we must show that notions such as justice, mercy and solidarity are not empty cries. Conversely, we are also asking the Member States to take these notions seriously. Is there, as with the MFF, a link between the very basic rule of law principles, which I mentioned earlier, and the own resources decision? In my group's view, the explanation given by the government on this point is a little too cryptic. But also a certain Dutch sobriety should not be lacking here. There is a well-understood self-interest to support the Italian and Spanish economies and to facilitate further reforms financially. For example, the Netherlands exports more than 20 billion in goods and services to Italy and some 16 billion to Spain. Those aren't childish amounts. Both Member States are in the top ten of our exporting countries. These are mainly meat, fish and vegetables, but also chemicals, machinery and services. Exports to these two countries are mainly directed by Dutch SMEs, let us not forget that. Exports to Portugal and Greece are less. This sum still amounts to some EUR 6 billion. All in all, we are talking about more than 40 billion in export earnings. That's certainly not a small beer. All in all, the Netherlands benefits from well-functioning and sustainable southern economies. The Recovery Fund can offer some relief here. Let's say that out loud here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u164	I hear all kinds of export figures coming by. Now, of course, it's a fool's errand to think that if this plan weren't there, that export would stop. In fact, the main export product from the Netherlands to southern Europe is slowly becoming Dutch money. This is about even larger amounts almost than what you mention here. I do not see the causal link, I say to Mr Ester. If this plan were not implemented, Mr Ester said that exports would cease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u165	You put all these things in my mouth that I didn't use. It is my concern to properly outline the macro-financial context. Then it is very sensible to add these export figures together: it is about keeping large sums of money in sight. If things are bad or worse with the Italian and Spanish economies, Dutch SMEs feel that way. This has proved to be the case for the last ten years. Studies have been carried out on this subject. You may know them; I don't know. That story's pretty strong. It is not so much a causal link, it is considerably more complicated, but it is very large amounts. We also need to share it with each other here in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u166	We need to take a few things apart. Someone else said it in another contribution as well. For example, the Italians often have much less private debts than the Dutch. They are actually much richer as individuals, but the state finances are not in order. In the Netherlands it is exactly the other way around. Under the Rutte Cabinets, the debt has been squeezed to bring it back like a madman, and millions of people have barely been able to build up capital. And what was left of it was vaporized by the corona crisis. The story of 'we need to maintain the Italian economy' does not go far enough; I think this is a bit more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u167	I would like to endorse Mr Otten's question. I heard the export figures on those countries. Has Mr Ester also looked at the import figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u169	If I may make a suggestion to him: instead of suggesting that they will buy more of our stuff if we transfer money to those countries, which will increase our exports, I would say: let us not transfer money to them, but let us import more products from those countries so that the economy is doing well. I believe that this is the same solution as you propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u170	That's also a way of reasoning. By the way, I have looked at the import figures and they are considerably lower than the export figures. It's about huge differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u171	That would actually mean that we should do something about it. We should import more wine from Italy instead of exporting our money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u172	"Reimport more" we can say here from this beautiful room, but that is not how an economy works. An economy isn't going to import anymore because you say so here, I'm afraid. That would have given you a lot of authority, but that's not how it works, of course. I think you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u173	I understand. I just wanted to show that your suggestion to transfer money to Italy, because it is good for our exports, is not a modern interpretation of how an economy works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u174	Just to build on this. When is the Dutch consumer going to import more from Italy? If he has more disposable income. You should not export the money to Italy through this miserable fund, but you should make sure that you lower the burden so that the tax can be reduced and people in the Netherlands might do something about their private debts. They are very out of control; people are all with very high mortgages and so on. That's not in Italy at all. That's where everyone keeps it in the family. There aren't that many mortgage debts or private debts there at all. We have to adjust the disposable income. In this respect, this is a very sensible discussion, because it shows that this plan is not going to work. This is not going to work for the Netherlands, because the problem here is that disposable income is too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u175	Mr Otten extends the debate to unprecedented proportions. Of course, this is not about disposable income in the Netherlands. Moreover, this is considerably higher than in the aforementioned Italy. I suggest that we limit the debate to the issue on which we are dealing, Mr President, but then perhaps I will take on your role. I would not like to bring in all kinds of things that are relevant in themselves, but do not really help the debate. By the way, with all due respect for your input, let that be clear. Mr. Chairman. Now is the time to ask the Minister for some terminological clarification. The political debate on the extension of own resources to combat the covid pandemic by the European Commission is largely fueled by the growing heated debate on Eurobonds. My group needs to make it clear that the financing model underlying the Recovery Fund is not a collusive introduction of Eurobonds, in which the ultimate consequence is the mutualisation of national debts of Member States. It was a short while ago, the coalition agreement is now perfectly clear: the EU is not a debt community. The proposed model is exceptional, one-off and temporary, with no joint and several liability, we understand. Undertakings shall not be taken over if Member States are unable to meet their debt obligations. There is no joint and several guarantee, as it is called in jargon. I would ask the Minister, if this is true, because that is crucial to the context of this debate. How does it consider the Council of State's view that extending own resources policy paves the way for the introduction of Eurobonds, which are far more unfocused and not one-on-one linked to extensive and agreed economic recovery operations? Can the Minister give us a clear-cut argument that there is no paradigm shift? In this context, how does he assess the relationship between grants and loans in the fund? Is this balance in the Netherlands in order? This temporaryity of the Recovery Fund is a good thing. At the same time, my group stresses that, under the comforting pretext of temporaryity and one-offness, many government policies have been given a sneaking semi-permanent status. Does the Minister share this fear and, if so, what dam does he throw up? Can he promise my group to actively monitor this? Article 5 of the EMB empowers the Commission, in view of the covid crisis, to depart from the golden rule that funds raised on the capital market should not be used for operational expenditure. What guarantees do we have that this will not be sufficient for the structural extension of the Commission's financial autonomy? The recovery fund is right to make a major point of the importance of the package of measures for the youngest generation of Europeans. The nextGenerationEU vignette is a bit bad English by the way. They were the main victims of the economic crisis and are now threatened by the covid crisis. A lost generation is not imaginary after these two huge blows. How do we prevent, for example, the Christian Union Group from asking the Minister that young people in particular should bear the cost of the fund? After all, the final account is not foreseen until the end of 2058. Is the intergenerational balance in order in his opinion? Is the Minister concerned about this? Is he prepared to entrust these intergenerational effects to the paper and share them with the Chamber? In his time as a senator, I remember that the Minister was very concerned about young people and their social position, so this commitment will not be difficult for him. If we analyse the economic recovery policy with a helicopter can, it is striking that quite a few national and Brussels policy instruments and funds are forcing themselves. The ESM colleague Van Ballekom already mentioned the MFF, the National Covid Support Packages, Invest-NL and now the Own Resources Decision. This is always about making our economy stronger, more social and more sustainable. What is the underlying link between all these instruments and funds? It does, I'll say in everyday language, a little busy. Is there, for example, no overlap between the Recovery Fund and Invest-NL? Both are about reforming our national income model. Is it not always about speeding up economic resilience and securing a resilient and future-proof economy? I am very interested to hear the Minister's response on this point. Mr. Chairman. In theory, the EMB is one-off and temporary. Own resources ceilings expressed as a percentage of EU GNI are stretched. For the earmarked Recovery Fund, this is a temporary increase of the ceilings of slightly in the order of 0.6%. The Council of State has already passed by it, making a solid point of the possible precedent. The fear is that this will be the prelude to the introduction of more European taxes. The government points to the emergency braking procedure that is in place, but my group also needs to have it clarified. My group also needs a statement of vision from the Minister, following this discussion, on the Dutch policy on European taxes. What exactly is our strategy here? The current four forms of Brussels taxation, customs revenue, VAT payments, GNI payments and later the plastic tax make a bit of a snappy impression. What arguments are there for tax measures at European level, and what arguments are there for them? Where do the minister and the cabinet draw borders? Where exactly should we relax? How do national and European taxation actually relate? How do we guarantee our fiscal autonomy? How relevant is the distinction between cross-border and specific national problems? What is the precise role of the national parliaments in this debate and how does it relate to the idea of subsidiarity? Those are many questions, I realize that, but we need a solid vision from the Minister on this issue of the relationship between Dutch policy and European taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u176	It's a privilege to hear Mr. Ester here. Often when I hear his speech, I think: well, that's the way I should have said it. But luckily he does, and then it's part of the Acts. And he's doing better. So I am very grateful to him for that. But of course we do reason from a different political point of view. I am listening to a great deal in the questions he is asking: people suffer the most from the suffering they fear. We are talking about the precedent that the Council of State is talking about. I read it, too. But isn't it true that we're always there? It is the decision of the European Council whether or not to do so. Isn't that where we have the blocking voice on that point? That's where we're at, isn't it? Isn't the debate that the Council of State has sparked a little? Isn't that a little too heavy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u177	Yeah, maybe. I have asked a lot of questions about it, but it goes a little too far in a plenary debate not only to ask my own questions, but also to answer them. In this case, I'd rather leave that to the Minister. I also find it a little heavy, but it is real to ask these questions, because that also keeps us as a parliament sharp. It also respects the position of the First and Second Chambers in the Netherlands. In that sense, these questions are not irrelevant and, with you, I am very curious to hear the Minister's answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u178	I didn't mean for a moment to say they were irrelevant. I was more concerned with emphasis. But you answered my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u179	Mr. Chairman. The fiscal framework, European tax and national tax is important because we will soon be discussing European tax instruments, such as carbon tax, digital tax, ETS, flight tax and a financial transaction tax. Bearing in mind the WRR study on European variations, is national diversity also possible here, or is fiscal unity and harmonisation necessary at all costs? Mr. Chairman. The aim of the EMB is to help Member States with sustainable recovery and further development of our economy in these harsh times: a trade-off if you want between money and reforms. Mrs Karimi mentioned that as well. The question is how are we going to measure the effects of this 750 billion mega financial injection? Can the Minister share with my group in more detail how we are going to see progress and decisiveness? What are the criteria for this? What sanctions are included? What will be the position of national parliaments to assess progress? Releasing such large amounts requires proper monitoring and evaluation of results achieved. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My group has the necessary questions about the Recovery Fund, but they are part of a positive-critical stance on this European support project. The covid crisis holds the world in a stranglehold and requires determined collective action, including by the European Union. After all, this is a major cross-border common problem that the Member States are holding hostage. We are touched by the combination of solidarity and sobriety in assessing the own resources decision, particularly in view of the weak economies of southern countries and also the vulnerable position of young Europeans. Community sense and well-understood self-interest come together here. This two-track policy is not a weak one, but rather a powerful combination on the road to sustainable recovery for all the Member States of the Union. Connectivity is a great asset and we have to want to draw the wallet for that. The Christian Union Group is prepared to do so. I look forward to the Minister answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Responding to your introductory remarks, I am sure that I will speak on behalf of the entire Chamber when I tell you that we are also very happy to welcome you back in our midst. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome back in full to Mr Ester, who just made a nice contribution, although we differ in substance. Mr. Chairman. Watch this! Borrowing money costs money. Therefore, read the financial package leaflet carefully for the risks. The AFM requires this explanation for all advertising on credit and debt. This equally simple and effective slogan also goes for what is ahead today: the own resources decision, the EMB. We have read the financial package leaflet of the EMB well. What do we see there? We see that with this EMB, the European Commission can for the first time, independently, borrow EUR 750 billion for its own policies. Ursula von der Leyen will be able to take out a mortgage of 750 billion, with as collateral the income and assets of the Dutch taxpayer. With this EMB, Dutch people are exposed to large financial risks. With this mortgage, the Netherlands will guarantee debts of Italy and Greece. After reading the financial package leaflet of this law, I have a first question to the Minister. If the Netherlands does ratify, but another country, for example Finland or Germany, simply does not do it and it tunes, also in the light of that postponement debate, what happens then? Is the whole EMB off the table or is the risk for the Netherlands greater? Then I get to the mortgage itself, specifically the collateral on that mortgage. A mortgage to finance a beautiful property in a growth market can be a great investment when interest rates are low and house prices are rising. But Mrs von der Leyen and the EU do not invest in a house or in the long term. More than half of the EMB mortgage of 750 billion, 390 billion, is distributed directly to the Member States, each with its own political agenda to which they are going to spend that money. In Spain, for example, we want to introduce a basic income, Italy wants to reduce taxes and France wants to keep the retirement age at 61 years, while in the Netherlands year in, year out, taxes increase. While in the Netherlands the AOW age is rising and pension benefits are falling, at the same time we are going to close a huge new family mortgage in the EU, which France wants to keep the AOW age low and Italy wants to reduce taxes. We are thus sacrificing domestic prosperity by, for example, allowing older people to work longer in the Netherlands under the guise of a good household booklet. At the same time, we subsidise foreign prosperity. We're gonna borrow together, all of us, so that older people can retire abroad rather than older people in the Netherlands. We really don't understand this. I don't think a lot of Dutch people, if you explain this simply, will understand this either. As far as we are concerned, it is really fine if France wants a low retirement age. It is fine if we want lower taxes in Italy. It is also fine if Spaniards choose to introduce a basic income. But why do we want to pay for it? They can just take care of this and borrow it for themselves, can't they? My second question to the Minister is therefore the question of a simple explanation. Can the Minister, taking into account the examples I have just mentioned, explain to the ordinary Dutchman why all those members of the European family do not just mortgage themselves for their domestic political ambitions, like the Netherlands? In this light, we are also looking a little cognisantly at the discussion about the contribution of the Netherlands to a plan for the Recovery Fund, which is 6 billion, for the Lelyline, for education or for care. That discussion is a little weird. Surely we do not need to fill a European game first and then ask for our own domestic ambitions in this little game at European level? We find that very strange. This EMB is, as has been said, a historic step. That is also the conclusion of the Council of State. That has been mentioned several times. This EMB paves the way for a future system of eurobonds, of structural family mortgages. The German Court of Auditors is also clear. It is written: it is about collecting debts and liability, a watershed for the EU. Last week, in the Senate with some of you, I debated the need for and return of human measure to our local democracy and public administration from early to late at night. That was worn wide. How come less than a week later we're throwing that human mate pardoes overboard again? This 750 billion EMB is all centralized: more money and more power to the central EU, which uses it for its own policy. The corona pandemic is used as an opportunity argument, because this centralisation is a much longer cherished political ambition. Mr. Chairman. "Nivelling's a party." This was a historical statement by former PvdA chairman Hans Spekman during cabinet negotiations between the Labour Party and the VVD. The leveling committee now has a new party location. The epicentre of the redistribution of wealth is no longer The Hague, but Brussels. Spekman's statement, "leveling is a party," led to a political crisis within the VVD at the time. People didn't want that. There seemed to be some backbone there at the time. That was countered. Under the leadership of the current VVD leader Mark Rutte, little of this is noticeable. The resistance to this EMB from the VVD seems moderate. The spokesperson, Mr Van Ballekom, may be critical of the process and how it is going, but this EMB will be supported. There is no problem with this package. Building a debt union has apparently become the leading political concept for the VVD as well. This brings me to the last point that I want to make here in the first term, namely how the political view has changed in a few years. I took the 2017 coalition agreement once more. The document "Confidence in the future" says: "The joint financing of debts of EU Member States is undesirable. The EU should not become a debt community. Leading the cabinet is therefore that no further steps are taken towards a transfer union, not even by introducing (forms of) eurobonds." At the time, therefore, the coalition negotiations apparently agreed, after the involvement of one or more parties, that joint debt financing was undesirable and that no steps were taken in this direction. How strange is it then that the EMB is exactly that, namely: a joint financing of debts, a family mortgage, and a big step towards a transfer union. We are wondering at the intercession of which parties entered into the coalition agreement at the time. That wouldn't have been D66, because D66 is gonna love this. Is it from the VVD or maybe from the CDA? In that case, what has changed since then? Why did they put it so explicitly in the coalition agreement then, and why do they now, it seems, agree? Especially now that the cabinet is decommissioned and the formation of a new cabinet has yet to begin, party political positions can prevail in the Chamber, even here, without having to abide by the yoke of coalition agreements. How is this possible? Mr. Chairman. We have studied the financial package leaflet of this EMB. By agreeing to this EMB, the Netherlands guarantees foreign debt. These debts are incurred to finance the home affairs of Southern European Member States. I really can't figure out why we'd do this. I can't explain this to a resident. Fortunately, I do not have to do that either, because that is what the parties are allowed to do. We are against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u182	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u183	Mr. Chairman. I, too, was pleased to meet Mr Ester again in this Chamber. He had a beautiful, valuable input, but also a valueful input. I have heard a lot of values: solidarity, justice, peace, security and sobriety. My group can agree to this and would like to add the value of austerity in the context of this debate. Mr President, I'm sure you know it: a so-called timelapse. Photographers use a timelapse, for example, to show how a flower unfolds or how a landscape develops. It's all very small steps that can hardly be seen with the naked eye, but in such a fast series of photos you suddenly see that it's going slowly but surely. I normally see this picture in the European Union's course of action: slowly, but surely. It is typical, moreover, of the increasing transfer of power to the EU, the growing role that the EU attaches itself to and the growing range of tasks. It goes slowly but surely, in often small steps, but together those small steps sometimes make a big leap. The surprising thing is that the EU is suddenly taking a different approach. It's not timelaps anymore, they're not small intermediate steps, but it's a giant leap, caught in just two photos of the Multiannual Financial Framework, the MFF, to the MFF plus recovery plan. From an MFF of about 1,100 billion to an MFF plus recovery plan of 1,850 billion. In addition to the new Multiannual Financial Framework, the European Commission is borrowing a further EUR 750 billion for the Recovery Fund. At least, it's 750 billion in 2018 prices. My question to the Minister is: to what extent has this amount grown by means of indexation? That is the first question. At 2% inflation, it has been growing to around 50 billion since 2018, I think. Is that right? What exactly is the current state of affairs? The Recovery Fund is in fact a loan that we repay from 2028 onwards. We'll be stuck with that until 2058. Does the Minister agree with my group that, on the basis of this alone, you cannot actually speak of a temporary instrument? 'Cause this is really about a switch. The Council of State also repeatedly points out in its response the uniqueness of this recovery instrument. Everything suggests that this step could have a great precedent. After all, in the event of a subsequent crisis, an extension of the recovery instrument can be regulated very quickly. My question is: can the Minister say once again that this instrument is indeed temporary? How can there be no precedent? And how is the Minister going to make sure it stays temporary? What guarantees does he need for that? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister to the rumor that the European Commissioner, Mr Dombrovskis, said that the Recovery Fund would not be a one-off but would perhaps become structural. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, it is not just the own resources that are now being proposed, if it is up to the European Commission. We're gonna get a few more. Carbon tax has just been mentioned. Digital charging, own resources based on the ETS and financial transaction were also introduced in 2026. These are four proposals that are already before us. However, when it comes to the SGP, taxation remains primarily a national competence and at most agreements are made on the design of these national taxes, such as flight tax. Does the Minister share this view? How is the Minister going to ensure that the proposals just mentioned are not imposed on the Member States, although they will probably be presented by the European Commission with all kinds of very urgent arguments and great urgency? Mr. Chairman. I have just said that there is a big step being taken this time. This major step is also being taken in the context of risk sharing. It is true that if Member States do not comply with their financial obligations, other Member States will have to step in. That's just a form of risk-sharing, isn't it? Financial risks are therefore no longer a burden on the European Union itself, but on the Member States. If one of the countries is no longer able to pay its bills, then the Dutch taxpayer has to step in. If that's different, I'd love to hear it. But for the SGP, this is really a crucial point. Here again a fundamental step is being taken towards a European state, which could also be called a superstate. Finally, Mr President. The own resources decision looks not only at the recovery instrument, but also at the financing of the regular Multiannual Financial Framework. The question to the Minister is, of course, whether it is desirable that these two subjects should actually be mixed up. The Minister of Finance is well aware that we are regularly discussing the linking or decoupling of legislative proposals which should be dealt with separately. Why has not a decision been taken on the financing of the MFF and a separate decision on the financing of the recovery instrument? In my opinion, this would be much more appropriate given the enormous impact of the new own resources decision on the Netherlands and on the Dutch taxpayer. Mr President, I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u184	Mr Schalk referred to Mr Ester's valuable contribution. I listened very carefully, but I could not really see the values on which your speech was based.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u185	That's a very nice question. I have indeed listened with interest to Mr Ester. He mentioned a whole series of values. That was the reason for me to congratulate him on that, of course. I then said that I would like to add the value of austerity to that. Perhaps you have heard in my speech between the lines that I think the 750 billion is a very high amount, that I now expect that it has risen to 800 billion and that I do have questions about it. So I mentioned that value, which I added to its values, at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u186	That was also the intriguing thing about the story. I could recognise and recognise solidarity, mercy and all the values that Mr Ester mentioned in his speech. Can I now conclude that the value of austerity in the SGP is above all else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u187	That would go too far, but I think it is an important value. I hope that all my sums here are not merely austere, but in my contribution to this issue I have put the heavy burden that is being added. If the President would allow me, I would like to say something about what the SGP thinks of all these other values, but I see that Mrs Karimi is not directly waiting for them either. But I will at least keep an eye on that for another round. Thank you very much. Mr President, that was my input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u188	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u189	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35711. I give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u190	Thank you, Chairman, and welcome to the rostrum. Also a special welcome to Mr Ester. I don't see him right now, but I'm also glad he's back after his illness. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis, which has been going on for almost a year and a half, makes a decision on the European Union's own resources special, not only because of the special times in which we live, but also because this time the EMB looks very different than usual. After all, it has been extended to include the NextGenerationEU recovery tool, of which the Recovery and Resilience Facility, RRF, accounts for the lion's share: 672 out of 750 billion. In addition to the national recovery plans, there is therefore this European recovery instrument. The members of the Labour Party welcome this enlargement. In times of crisis, plans for recovery and resilience are, of course, highly desirable. The government itself speaks of the necessary solidarity between countries which are desirable in these special times. The Labour Party is very much in favour of showing solidarity on a European scale. Moreover, the aim of this recovery instrument is to contribute to the green and digital transitions of Member States' economies. We are very much in favour of this. Still, I get the uncomfortable feeling that the final realization of the RRF takes a very long time. At the same time, you may wonder whether the next steps should not be taken by now. The Labour Party is therefore in favour of an early vote on this proposal. The 750 billion of the recovery instrument is based on a so-called need assessment by the European Commission in May 2020. At the time, the Commission acted decisively on the crisis, and the pressure exerted by the European Parliament helped to do so. This assessment describes the economic impact of the COVID-19 crisis on regions and sectors and the financing and investment needs. That's how the 750 billion came out. In the meantime, we're a year away. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he still considers the results of that need assessment to be up to date. How do the national recovery funds, which have been rigged up, relate to the European recovery instrument? At the same time, the corona crisis is taking longer than was hoped or anticipated in spring 2020, and thus also its impact on European economies. Is this not necessary until now to consider a follow-up to the RRF, I would ask the Minister, even if the resources of the RRF still have to be collected and paid out to the Member States on the financial market? Does the government agree with the members of the Labour Party that, after the corona crisis, it is not possible to go back to the status quo and that the conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact, which have now been temporarily abandoned, will have to be re-examined? Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about the special nature of the European recovery instrument as a complement to the regular MFF. The recovery fund is not financed from the European Union's own resources, but from funds raised on the capital market. Of the 750 billion, 390 billion will be provided to the Member States in the form of grants and 360 billion in the form of loans. That is an historic step; it has been mentioned before. The government is proud to have been able to increase the share of loans with a number of other Member States at the expense of the share of grants. We are less proud of that. In these special times of a corona crisis, we believe that a little more flexibility should have been applied. Eventually, the government accepted the use of capital market funds for the grant of subsidies, albeit with reference to the special and temporary nature of the corona crisis. If that principle has been accepted under these particular circumstances, why not apply solidarity more generously, I ask the Minister. This is also true, because the position of the Netherlands within Europe has not improved due to the very steep attitude of the Netherlands in this matter. Besides, it's in our own best interest. We must not think that if the economy in the south of Europe collapses, we will or will remain rich in the Netherlands. Italy is the sixth exporting country, to name but a few. Mr Ester pointed that out, and he also mentioned Spain. My group also recognizes, with the government, that the use of capital market resources for operating expenditure is contrary to the idea laid down in Article 4 of the own resources decision, which states that operating expenditure can only be financed by its own resources and not by loans on the capital market. At the same time, we agree with the government that the special circumstances justify an exception to the rule, as is possible under Article 5 of the EMB. But, so I ask the Minister, why is the government so eager to submit a package of reform measures and investment plans? This has been discussed many times today. The Netherlands can claim up to EUR 6 billion. And we can use that money, for example for energy measures for the citizens. Think of measures for housing or for industry. In this way, these costs do not have to be incurred by increasing domestic taxes. The debate has often said: yes, but the cabinet is decommissioned. But it has also been said: that does not have to be a problem at all. I agree with the latter. The spring chord has been mentioned. It has also been said that Parliament is not a resignation. I would also like to point out that in the past, during the financial crisis, the predecessor of the current Minister of Finance, Spain, pointed out that it would come up with measures and submit plans when the government in that country was decommissioned. So the missionary status is absolutely no obstacle to coming up with plans. Can the Minister describe the current state of preparations for the Dutch package of measures and plans under the RRF? What measures does the Cabinet intend to include in this package? And how do they relate to the mandatory recommendations of the European Commission, for example with regard to the high indebtedness of Dutch households? And does the Minister understand the anger that exists in other countries because we have seriously undermined their ability to levy fair business taxes through tax avoidance through our country? What concrete measures does the cabinet propose to the European Commission on tax avoidance? Moreover, it is important that the money obtained on the basis of the RRF is also spent on time. So it is not only important that plans are submitted quickly. The Netherlands is already very late in submitting plans. However, it is also necessary to ensure that the money can be spent on time. Can the Minister guarantee that the RRF funds still to be collected by the Netherlands can also be spent in good time? What's the deadline for this? Mr. Chairman. The European recovery instrument is complementary to the actual own resources decision, but it also contains new elements. The most important of these is, in our opinion, the introduction of the levy on the weight of unrecycled plastic packaging material. That's what it's called, but an easier indication is "plastic tax." However, the government should not call it that, because it states that new European taxes are not the subject of this proposal. Can the Minister explain again why this payment should not be called a tax? Speaking of which, can the Minister state what progress has been made in preparing for the introduction of a carbon tax at the borders? The plans for this should be published this spring. And can the Minister also indicate the state of preparations for the financial transaction tax and the digital services tax proposed by the European Commission? Mr. Chairman. As much as the PvdA Group welcomes this proposal, it is not to be welcomed. Of course, we welcome the establishment of the MFF rule of law, but the scope could have been extended. And our group agrees with the government that the MFF has changed too little in the area of the common agricultural policy. That is a missed opportunity to green up agriculture. And it's been at the expense of science and research. We very much regret that. Mr. Chairman. In these turbulent times, where geopolitical tensions also make the importance of united action by the European Union more necessary than ever, it is of great importance to show solidarity among ourselves. This particular own resources decision, with the European recovery instrument, is therefore urgently needed. Our group believes that it should have been a little more supportive in its design, but that does not mean that this proposal represents an important step forward. I would add, following the debate earlier: can the Minister indicate that if the two Chambers have accepted this plan, the government will notify Brussels as soon as possible after adoption by Parliament? Can the Minister indicate at what time that notification will take place? We look forward to answering our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u191	Thank you, Mr Koole, for the second in time. You make me work, for the first time sitting here, very easy. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u192	Mr President, it is good to see you in that place and to see Mr Ester in his place. The fact that you see me in this place has everything to do with the fact that our colleague Bastiaan van Apeldoorn is still recovering from a severe concussion; it was a heavy fall. He's got a lot of brains, and it's gonna take some time to get back together. I get to act as his mouthpiece here once. I therefore appeal to your leniency to give me a single minute or more. We're still in the schedule, I understand. Mr. Chairman. I am focusing our contribution on that part of the own resources decision related to the fight against the economic and social consequences of the pandemic at Union level. For us as SP, it is obvious that internationalism is much more effective than short-sighted nationalism, of which we have unfortunately seen too many examples, from keeping too long a secret of China's outbreak, the stupid denial of the pandemic in America, the ruthless use of tools within the European Union to the geopolitical marchanding of countries and blocks of vaccines, including the European Union and Russia. All examples of how not to do it. The inadequate and miserable financing of the World Health Organisation is also an example of this. The huge risk that the poor countries will be completely at the rear, both in receiving vaccines and in receiving international aid for reconstruction, is also an expression of the absence of international solidarity if we need it most. Still not identifying a pandemic of vaccines as a public good, which the World Health Organisation is so keen on, is an embarrassing example that private profit still goes beyond public necessity. It doesn't cheer us up. How does the Minister feel about that? Mr. Chairman. The fact that the European Union is aware of the need to provide assistance to Member States at Union level is a good thing. However, it is doubtful whether the Recovery Fund, as it has now taken shape, is the best way to proceed through the new own resources decision. The Recovery Fund will be filled by loans that the European Commission will attract on the capital market. Until recently, the prevailing doctrine, if we understand it correctly, was that the EU should not be allowed to spend money on Borrowing for spending. Since of the total amount of funding estimated at 390 billion will be provided by the European Commission, that is what is happening now. How much is this interpretation of EU rules? What are the risks we're talking about? It certainly won't be a small beer. Mr. Chairman. Which Member States have so far submitted plans for the Recovery Fund? How much money and how is the check on it? To what extent do they serve to cushion the economic and social consequences of the pandemic? Several of them have already expressed doubts about this. The European Commission says rather roaringly that money is going to make Europe greener, more digital and more resilient, but that is more like promoting the Commission's agenda than a targeted social and economic recovery plan. What does the Minister think of this and why is the word'social' missing from the definition by the European Commission? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands can receive some 6 billion from the fund. How does that relate to the amounts that other countries can get? In my group's view, they are quite different. Does that have to do with the fact that we have kept to ourselves at the negotiating table or that we have been thrown off the table? Or are we punished for our initially rather assertive attitude, so to speak in the direction of the Minister. I also ask the Minister why the Netherlands only wants subsidies and does not want to use loans. According to the government, EU-wide Borrowing for spending would be a one-off sin against the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but why did the Vice-President of the European Commission say to the President of the European Parliament that there is no way to rule out the permanent nature of the recovery instrument? I've heard a lot of people talk about that. Mr Van Ballekom spoke of 'a threat of federalisation' and Mr Schalk referred to 'the growth of a superstate'. I am considering a motion to clarify this in the second term. The recovery fund is undoubtedly an opportunity to help Member States get out of the pandemic, but is it also the best and the most effective? Have any alternatives been considered? In the years behind, the rigidity of the Stability and Growth Pact was a major obstacle for Member States to do what was necessary for society. As a result, Member States were less well prepared for the pandemic. Now that this rigidity is at least temporary, Member States could do more to restore their economies, make social relations fairer and more sustainable and bring public services more up-to-date. Why isn't there any more bets on that? What can the ESM offer us, I ask the Minister in this regard. Mr. Chairman. Has monetary financing by the European Central Bank and the national banks been considering giving Member States the room to do what is necessary without seeing their debts get out of hand? Economists of name and fame, such as Paul De Grauwe and others, argue for this, in our opinion on good grounds. If at any point in time the government has bet on it, I ask the Minister. And if not, why not? And has any consideration been given to alleviating the debt burden of heavily affected countries through debt cancellation and other financial relief from the "savory" Member States? Not everything needs to be done through loans to the capital market by the European Union. I'd like an answer to our questions. Mr President, concluding. The SP is very much in favour of international solidarity being a better response in crisis times than the use of short-sighted nationalism, block formation and risky geopolitics. In order to combat effectively the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, it must go beyond geographical, economic and political boundaries, but we are not convinced that the pandemic recovery fund is the best answer under this new EMB. But we would like to give the Minister a chance to update us in his answer to our questions. Thank you. And also thank you for the leniency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u193	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I shall then give the floor to Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, do not rule out the need for a very limited appeal to your leniency, but perhaps that is not necessary. Mr. Chairman. The government is doing its best to stress that the EUR 750 billion NextGenerationEU recovery plan, which was put under great pressure last year, should be seen as an exceptional, one-off and, above all, temporary recovery instrument. However, it seems that the EU has passed the Rubicon with the adoption of this instrument. In order to finance this, the European Commission will be able, on behalf of the European Union, to take out loans on the money markets at a lower rate than many Member States themselves could. That was unthinkable before. Until recently, the economies of the strong EU Member States, which are only getting stronger by the low interest rates that apply to them, did not want to guarantee those of the economically weak Member States which have to pay more and more interest rates. The corona pandemic has fueled the willingness to provide financial solidarity between Member States in combination with the well-understood self-interest. Although there is hope that we will soon be rid of corona, it has not yet been said that society will soon recover from the major crisis caused by this pandemic. Nor can we, of course, rule out other future crises. And that raises the question of whether this new instrument will not be able to live longer than the government suggests. It will depend on the final success of this recovery plan, but we are not ruling out it, and we would not be a priori opposed to it being more structural in crisis situations. We would like to hear the views of the Minister for Finance. Under what conditions does he consider a continuation of this or similar recovery instrument conceivable and possibly even desirable in the future? With this remarkable development, another taboo has been discussed since the creation of the EEC: the introduction of own EU taxes. So far, the line has been to be very reluctant to introduce new EU taxes alongside the European Union's traditional sources of financing. The European Commission's plans show that more and more EU taxes are being considered. For example, there is a tax on non-recycled plastic and a tax based on the EU trading and emission allowance system is being considered. I also mention a border carbon tax, a digital service tax, a financial transaction tax and a resuscitation of the proposed but not always accepted 2016 directive on the introduction of a common, whether or not consolidated corporate income tax. Many European citizens do not feel, or do not feel, sufficiently represented in national parliaments. This feeling is even stronger among these citizens when it comes to the European Parliament. They often have difficulty accepting new national taxes or increasing existing taxes, let alone new EU taxes. The anti-EU tax sentiments are often stirred up by the age-old principle of "no taxation without representation," but those who support this slogan in this context often do not aim at taxes that should be in the interest of the entire population of the EU and on which the entire EU population should be able to participate, but only at the requirement to be able to participate in the decision on the introduction of new taxes if they are in the interest of their own country. The members of the CDA Group are not opposed to the introduction of new EU taxes but are aware that they must be surrounded by additional safeguards. We agree with the government that the principle of subsidiarity is very important in this regard. This means that new EU taxes should only be considered if, in addition to an additional resource for the EU, they also contribute to generally accepted EU policy objectives that cannot, or cannot, be sufficiently achieved by individual Member States themselves. This implies that EU taxes related, for example, to climate change, the Green Deal, see, for example, the non-recycled plastic debt or the taxation of digital services are better suited to be introduced as EU taxes than, for example, an EU income tax. The members of the CDA Group invite the Minister to explicitly review the above-mentioned new EU taxes against this subsidiarity criterion. There has recently been a debate on whether Article 116 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union offers an option to allow for tax harmonisation on the basis of qualified majority voting rather than the current requirement of unanimity. In the reply, the government says to our question whether it would like to give a comprehensive response on this issue, that it would like to wait until the European Commission has given its view on this issue. But no doubt the Minister also has his own opinion on this important issue, apart from that of the European Commission. In the context of the new political culture of transparency and open debate, we invite him to share that vision with us today. Finally, to what extent does the Minister see a task for Parliament at the time when he is going to claim EUR 6 billion from this Recovery Fund? I thank you, also for the clemency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u195	There is an interruption by Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u196	Thank you to Mr Essers for his brief, concise speech. Yet there was an interesting thought, which I pointed out in my own contribution, namely to think about what should happen after this phase of the RRF. I understood from his story, and my question is whether I understood that correctly, and that he is in favour of a more structural provision. Is that a provision after this RRF facility, which is indeed temporary, that allows you to borrow on the capital market which can be used, for example, for the provision of subsidies, for policy? Is that what Mr. Essers has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u197	Yes, we are not against it a priori, but what needs to be emphasised here is that it must be about dealing with the crisis. This instrument has been created, we must not forget it because of the coronapandemic. In 2008, we had a similar crisis. Then we solved it in other ways. At that time, the euro was in serious danger. But this is the point I would like to emphasise. For exceptional situations, but they do come back every ten years, you have to see if you could move on with this instrument. That is why I ask the Minister to address the criteria that are necessary for this purpose and where he is going to review this fund. So no dogmatic approach to "never borrow," but one must be able to formulate with one another that there are cases conceivable, real crisis situations, in which this could be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u198	Thank you. Real crisis situations: that is a useful nuance, I think. Does that mean that Mr Essers proposes that there should be a permanent provision in the Treaty for any crisis situations which, as he himself says, occur once every ten years? I believe that we have been in a crisis for ten years: the financial crisis, the euro crisis, the banking crisis and now the corona crisis, and they also partly overlap. Is he saying that you can have a permanent supply for possible crises?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u199	You should think about that. You have to think about it very carefully. You don't have to leave money on the shelf unnecessarily, but when such a crisis comes, you have to be able to react quickly. Nationally we have seen that, with the deep pockets of Minister Hoekstra. Europeans must also have such an opportunity. So you must have thought about that in advance, because the moment the crisis comes, there is panic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u200	Mr Koole, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u201	Yeah, finally. Would that mean that, in a crisis situation based, for example, on such a permanent provision for crisis situations, there could be a rapid deployment of eurobonds?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u202	I'd rather not use that term. It is contaminated, because it suggests borrowing for all kinds of general expenses. We shouldn't do that. We must talk about solidarity, but also about self-interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u203	But is it the granting of subsidies on the basis of money obtained from loans on the capital market?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u204	Yes, provided we meet the conditions we have set with each other in advance, learning from these instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u205	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u206	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I am asking for clemency for speaking time, but I will try to stick to the five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u207	It's gonna be a habit around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u208	First of all, it is nice that we can debate again with Mr Ester today. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the own resources decision as a successor to the 2014 decision. After long and difficult negotiations within the European Council, this has become the subject of a crisis and that in times of corona crisis. It is about very important negotiations for our country. The result is acceptable to my group. In the European Union, you have to compromise, and the Netherlands has really stuck to it. In my brief contribution, I have some questions for the Minister. Much has already been said. One. We think it is a missed opportunity for so little reform within the multiannual budget. Agriculture remains a budgetary millstone that greatly slows down major steps in, for example, necessary innovation. Two. Can the budgetary policies of the European Union and of the Member States gradually gradually replace the policies of the European Central Bank and monetary policy? And to what extent can reforms be implemented in the Member States? I would like to talk about'more reforming budget frameworks'. Draghi demanded more reform from the European Union at the time. In the absence of that, he found that an additional ID for a continuing with the buy-back program. Three. The Minister made it clear that Eurobonds should not be used to finance the EU budget, whereas Member States would not be jointly liable for the commitments entered into. I am still leaving it in the middle of the recovery budget to speak of Eurobond's avant la lettre. But this is not a step in the direction of Eurobonds, I ask the Minister. Four. Macron made the proposal for a recovery fund in spring 2020, which was quickly embraced by Merkel. The Recovery Fund would be dedicated once, temporarily and only to the covid target. Will the Minister confirm once again that this is and should remain the Dutch position? Governing is forward-looking. The question has been raised in detail as to whether there has been any precedent. The mere fact that this question was discussed in detail in the opinion of the Council of State and in the debate in the House of Representatives shows that this is indeed a matter of concern. The Minister replied in the Lower House "but we are always there ourselves." How firm and strong is this position? Can the Minister respond to the signal given by France and even Germany: perhaps not once? Your German colleague, Mr Scholz, recently mentioned the covid recovery fund. Now he is coming to the road to European fiscal union. I don't think there's a word of French to that. So we've been warned. Nothing is more permanent in the EU than 'temporary' and 'one time', we often have to observe. Finally, point five. Redempting loans for recovery should be made out of cuts in the EU budget, from higher contributions from countries and some from EU taxes. Does the Minister share our view that the EU budget should continue to be financed on the basis of gross national product? In principle, my group is not in favour of this, and I would like to make it quite clear here that we are not in favour of the financial transaction tax, which would be disastrous for our pension funds. I'd like a response from the Minister. Taxation should remain the prerogatives of the Member States with maximum democratic control. It has already been said by Mr Essers: no taxation without representation. Does the Minister share our view that our right of veto should remain with tax proposals in the EU? We all know that that right of veto is actually the right not to have to use it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, four questions to the Minister on the long term, other than what is now before us. One. What is missing in NextGenerationEU is an approach to tackle the excessive levels of public debt in a number of countries, including Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium and Greece. Too much is hoped that these countries will be able to grow out of the problems. I don't think that's easy. In the medium and long term, there will be no escape from cuts in these countries. Otherwise, the risk of a new debt crisis with pressure on the sustainability of the euro will remain. Two. The suspension of budgetary rules must be brought to an end as soon as possible. There will have to be proposals for new rules. For our country, it is crucial that these new rules promote debt reduction at a reasonable pace and not make it impossible. Three. If debts are back on sustainable path, the European Central Bank may increase interest rates if necessary, without fear of triggering a financial crisis and putting the euro at risk. However, putting pressure on the ECB to stop the QE, the buy-in programme, would be counterproductive. That's what triggers such a crisis. There is a greater chance that the path to normal interest rates will be used if public finances are put on a sustainable path. Finally, Mr President. The ECB is evaluating its strategy. It must be feared that, like the Fed, he wants to move towards an average inflation rate just below 2%. This can be very bad for our pension system, for our savers and the middle class. That is the message I would like the Minister to send to the eurogroup. After all, our pensioners pay the bill. The last 13 years have not been indexed. This means a 20% decrease in the purchasing power of that pension. Apart from the pension agreement, it is clear that the next six years will not be indexed either. This means in 20 years, between 2008 and 2028, 40% reduction in the pensions of people who have worked hard for 40 years. After the speech I have just made, I also refer to the position paper of the ECB Study Group...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u209	Mr. Van Rooijen, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u210	... led by Lex Hoogduin, written following the Omtzigt/Bruins motion of November 2019 under the title: "Some economic and legal aspects of the ECB buy-back programme,s." Mr. Chairman. Finally, we would like to be deemed to have voted in favour of the Koole motion which was discussed this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u211	The latter is in the Acts. It makes no difference to the votes, as you know. Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 6:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u212	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35711. We are now ready for the Prime Minister's answer in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I can kick off saying again that it's a privilege to be back here with you as a guest. It is a privilege to be here in the chambre de réflexion, as members often call it. I understand that at least until 10.30 p.m. we have time to reflect. Well, that's what we're gonna have to do. Maybe I can also say that it is extremely good for me to see Mr.Ester again, as far as I can see in blazing health, at least he walked like a young god here in the room. I wish him very much that he could continue to do this for a long time. It's really good to see him again. A lot of questions have been asked and comments made. In an attempt to structure at least my share of the contributions, I would like to start by saying something about the design and financing of what we call "NextGenerationEU," then something about the EMB itself, then about the rule of law and then a number of things in the "other" block. I will start with the NextGenerationEU, the design and the funding. I will try to answer the questions as much as possible and not to comment on the more general considerations, because I do not think that is appropriate. A first question, which has been put by several Members, at least by Mr Van Rooijen and I also think by Mr Ester and others, is to what extent there would be a paradigm shift towards Eurobonds by adopting the own resources decision. A second question was how to take the opinion of the Council of State into account. As far as I am concerned, these are not Eurobonds. A brief debate has just been held on joint and several liability. There was a time when everyone was looking at you glazed when you called it, but now it has become a kind of house-garden-and-kitchen term for many. The question is whether that is good news or bad news, but we all know more or less what that means. What matters, and what is fundamentally distinctive in what we have agreed on in relation to a Eurobond, is that you can spend a eurobond as previously proposed by France on any subject you like. It is the same with a euro that you, as the Netherlands, or as any Member State, collect on the capital market. Secondly, with a Eurobond, it has always been the idea that everyone, if things were to go completely wrong, would be liable for the full pound of that whole loan. That is not the case here. Then how do I weigh the opinion of the Council of State? I think there's a lot of truth in what Mr Backer said. We have made these agreements under very special circumstances. Of course, this exceptionalness occurs every few years, but Corona had all sorts of features of a crisis that, at least in my life, but also in most of the Members, has never happened before. That is what this design has been aimed at. Does that mean you're never gonna repeat that again? That'll tell the future. But in any case, that is what I have said, I believe, in the House of Representatives, and I agree with Mr Backer, that it is a consideration for each of the Member States, including the Member State of the Netherlands, and thus also for the Second and First Chamber, to look at it. Mr Otten wanted to know the exact amount. What's it about? I think he himself mentioned that there is a guarantee of 27.4 billion in the state budget. That is for the multiannual risk for the entire duration. He was wondering if that could be even more or less. No, basically, I can't. However, in the exceptional situation that a Member State may not be able to meet the additional contribution in time, the claim to the Netherlands could be higher in a given year, but it will then be settled again. So that amount is really the amount, which I believe is also included in the Prince's diaries, but at least in the documents relating to the budget. Then Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Ester and Mr Schalk asked: what if a Member State does not fulfil its obligations? In the short term, you could have the situation I just outlined. But it's extremely unlikely. You will then find yourself in a very precarious situation in the Union at all, because then Member States will decide to suspend other obligations as well. I can easily imagine that at the moment when one of the Member States would say that it no longer wants to contribute to this, the other Member States, the net contributors, will say: that is good, but then we will also make a pass on the annual amount that we are transferring for the MFF. I think the trouble will be pretty big soon. I cannot, of course, completely overlook it and do not fully outline it, because it is a hypothetical question. That's why it's nothing more than an assessment on my part. But I do not think that there would suddenly be disproportionate risks passed on to the Netherlands. I think that was the concern of which the questioners also wanted to be freed. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Ester, Mr Van Rooyen, Mr Schalk and Mr Kox asked what the guarantee was that it would not be a prelude to structural enlargement. The most important part of the answer is that we are there ourselves. The second part of the answer, as far as I am concerned, is that this very exceptional means has not been chosen for nothing at this very exceptional time. I will not go into that anymore, because that is up to another cabinet, but what I very much hope for is that it brings what we in the Netherlands hope and expect: the combination of investment and money and actually reform. This is, of course, the tragedy of recent years: many Member States have done too little. If you follow the CSR's country-specific recommendations from the different Member States, then you can see that those years after year are the same and that the Member States have often danced around them. I hope that the efforts of the Netherlands, Germany and France too, to do this and to make it the heart of this agreement, will bear fruit. If so, you would want to make that much more, perhaps within a subsequent MMF, part of the logic. That is something completely different than doing this fund again. That is a one-off agreement; it has been made on a one-off basis. There are no further obligations on us. At the same time, I cannot rule out the fact that there are Member States that want to test this style, this way of operating, once again. Member States will then have to renegotiate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u214	I hear the minister's still a little hoarse. I understand that's because of screaming at his kids. Perhaps he should have shouted a little louder in Brussels against the southern European Member States, for example about reforms. I just heard the Minister say that this is the way to enforce reforms. What exactly are the reforms that Italy is going to implement in return for the 200 billion under this plan? That slipped my mind for a second. Maybe the Minister can give me a heads-up on what's going to happen there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u215	First of all, thank you for informing me of the quality of my voice. That's what I said. By the way, the kids didn't suffer very much from that joke. There are also people who say that it would have resulted in a lot more seats if I had had that sloppy voice earlier and that if it all goes wrong, I might be able to apply to Candlelight. Then Mr Otten is the first person I call to go over that together. Then I come to the reforms. Those reforms are crystal clear. The strength is that we, as the Netherlands, or as any Member State, did not prescribe in that negotiation what things those Member States should do, but that we said that there is already a measure for it. That measure is reflected in those country-specific recommendations. I cannot name them for every Member State in every detail. For the Netherlands, I can go a long way, because things are always the same. The Commission will now have to review Italy's plan, which I have read in the press, with regard to these reforms. Moreover, we will also want to see whether the investments are sensible. That is what the Commission is going to do in the coming period. Once the Commission has reached a decision, these plans will undoubtedly also be shared with the other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u216	I was at such a Euro Summit in Helsinki a year and a half ago. All these country-specific recommendations have yet to be implemented. That almost never happens. There's a lot behind. I understand that the fact that the recommendations were not enforceable for the Netherlands is the reason that no plan has been submitted. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u217	No, that's not right. I think this is a different subject. I'd like to get back to it. In the end, if you want to be able to claim that money, the Netherlands will also have to comply with the Commission's recommendations. What are these country-specific recommendations for the Netherlands about? Among other things, the housing market and the situation of a rather large debt mountain there and the vulnerability of that housing market to the economy. That's one. Another is the labour market, with, in the Commission's view, relatively many flexible jobs and, at the same time, many fixed contracts. Let me get this straight. There you could say that the Commission is more or less on the same lines as the Borstlap Committee. The Commission has been saying this for a long time: the Netherlands, you should get on with it. In this case there is money on the other side. The impossibility or feasibility has nothing to do with the delay in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u218	Yes, but something is not right here, because the southern countries are also getting those recommendations. They must also implement reforms. So the Minister and I both obviously don't know exactly what they mean. Apparently, promises or promises have been made there to get that money. It seems to me that it is a very rational strategy in the EU to do so. I would have done the same if I were Italy, I guess. "Then we'll have the money and then we'll see." Why didn't the Netherlands adopt such an approach? Isn't that an assertive approach you should take in this system? If you don't, you're gonna be the victim of this entire system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u219	That's a real misunderstanding, isn't it? This also threatened to arise from Mr Otten's contribution. These agreements have been made on the amounts that Member States are potentially entitled to if they come up with a plan that is ultimately sanctioned by the European Union. Those plans should combine investments, sensible investments and reforms, which are the easy part of the project and which are the less easy part. Those reforms should be based on those country-specific recommendations. Otherwise, you will quickly find yourself in the situation where a Member State says that it thought it was something of a reform and the Commission does not. Then the question is: when do you submit these plans? At present, no euro can be spent. A euro cannot be spent until all Member States have ratified it. We're not there. That is where we have been delayed in time, especially since two Member States, Mr Van Ballekom, referred to it, felt it necessary to walk to the European Court immediately after that deal was concluded. I have big questions about whether you should think that's decent, but that's what they did. As a result, the whole process has been delayed. As a Dutch cabinet, we have said: given the sensitivity of these country-specific recommendations and given the fact that there is a very different political view, it is obvious to give forming parties a role in this and not just as a missionary cabinet to take it through. To be honest, I think that is prudent and also decent towards Parliament. I only deal with a lot of questions at once. There were some members here who were critical, so: why haven't you filed yet? I think that those same Members would have been much more critical if this composition of the cabinet had chosen some things out and had already done so with the Commission. Then those members would have rightly said: shouldn't the new House of Representatives have something to say about that? That explains the approach over time. Backer and others, I believe Essers, have pointed out that it is true that the money is not yet gone. You can submit the plans at any time. If the plans are sanctioned, if they're approved, you'll get that money, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u220	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u221	I note that the fact that two Member States have moved to the European Court of Justice was not an obstacle for the 26 other EU Member States to submit a plan. So that story doesn't go in with me. Perhaps, now that interest rates are low, we should have had the discussion about the mortgage interest rebate, in order to get the 6 billion. Now we have nothing and we stand empty-handed. As I said before, we are exporting money to southern Europe. That is now becoming our biggest export product. So I think that's a missed opportunity after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u222	Of course, Mr Otten is free to say everything he wants to me to the interrupt microphone, but it is really different. I'm gonna repeat it. It's not like the Netherlands isn't getting any money right now. The Netherlands has said that we want to put forward plans for this, which we will also base on the country-specific recommendations, but we would like to see formal parties taking part in this decision. I think that's wise. Two. It is also important that the route has been delayed. That is why we now have this debate. We have this debate much later than a few weeks after the debate in the House of Representatives. That's what this room itself is about. The whole process has been delayed in the third and fourth quarters of last year because of Mr Van Ballekom, rightly said the strange route that some Member States wanted to take. First, they claim a very good position with regard to the fund and then set themselves off against perfectly reasonable and perhaps too limited demands from the rest of the Union in the field of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. I used Mr. Otten to wrestle through much of the first block, but before I take that back...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u223	... I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u224	Mr Schalk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u225	I would like to go back to the point made by the Minister in replying to the questions raised, about the time when one of the Member States would not fulfil its obligations. I know what he's saying. At the moment when one of those Member States says, for whatever reason, that it is no longer participating, other Member States say: okay, then we are going to do something. It seems to me to be the most normal route to say: then you are no longer entitled to other facilities in Europe. I think that's better than saying all of you saying, "We won't do anything anymore." That's one. The Minister refers in particular to a situation in which someone does not want to pay. But what is the situation when someone can't, or temporarily can't, pay? This will not guarantee the EU, but will guarantee all Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u226	That could occur, but then you have the normal route through the ESM. It is interesting, moreover, that even in this very deep crisis, one of the speakers referred to the fact that there was not one Member State that had to or wanted to take the road towards the ESM. If you look at how low the interest rates that other Member States pay are, you can see that we are in a very different situation than we were ten or fifteen years ago. Member States that are not even close to the Dutch triple A rating can also borrow very advantageously. That is why we have always said that we, the Netherlands, are not going to use this corona pick of loans from the ESM. Why not? Because it is cheaper for us to borrow directly on the capital market than through the ESM. So that would be the route. I don't think that's a great opportunity, by the way. And then, of course, the Union and the Member States are at the forefront of making agreements again on how to do such a restructuring. But that will be done through that body of Klaus Regling, the ESM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u227	For my understanding, at least for a little while. I can understand that people have not yet turned to the ESM. But it goes in, with the refunds, in 2028. We do not know at all what crises are yet to come, but the Minister knows, like me, that we never have ten years without something very special happening in one way or another. So you can just make that stand. How do you deal with that? After all, it has to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u228	Sure. But then I'm gonna go with the hypothesis. When a Member State gets into such trouble, of course, you get a re-negotiation on a number of things at all. I'd like to put the following aside. On the one hand, it is a phenomenal amount of money when you talk about the 750 billion, but on the other hand, the amount is quite small, frankly, when you look at what an average Member State has to pay on a typical annual budget. To be honest, it is also not very likely that a Member State would get into trouble mainly because of the obligations attached to this piece, especially since the largest net contributors have the best credit ratings. I can't completely brush it up, I get that, but I hope that this will give Mr Schalk a great deal of certainty that this is not very likely and that it is not the case that the Dutch taxpayer will be disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u229	Has the Minister now dealt with that own plan or will he come back to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u230	No, but I tried to structure the questions and, above all, Mr Otten's comments. I used it to work out a few questions, too, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u231	But will you come back to that or shall I ask my question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u232	In particular, Mrs Karimi must do what she wants, but I find it more than once, in this block alone, Mr President. So it is up to her how much patience she desires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u233	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u234	We're still in block one, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u235	I'd like to say otherwise, but it's not like that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linden asked: what if one Member State does not ratify? Then it's very simple; then the whole party is off. So if one Member State says "we're not doing it," then there is no treaty. Because it is a treaty that has been concluded by unanimity. Then there was a question or a remark: what about what have many Member States done? In the meantime, I believe 20 have ratified it. I don't know if that's including or excluding Finland. There has been a meeting on this matter this weekend, and it has just or has not been ratified. Mr Kox asked how it would be legally possible for the Union to borrow. There have already been speakers who have referred to this. The fact that the Union borrows money on the capital market is not in itself new and unique. For example, the Commission borrowed and borrowed already for the financing of the EFSM. And SURE is natural... Mr. Kox... Some Members have been sitting somewhere else, so I have lost my orientation on that point too. But I found Mr. Kox. So that's not new in itself. In addition, the Council's Legal Service confirmed in its opinion that it is compatible with Union law. Well, I will immediately endorse... Everyone says: ask three lawyers for an opinion and you get four different opinions. However, I shall stick to the Council's Legal Service for a while. In any case, I would not like to claim that I can make a better legal assessment of it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u236	I sat there, because I like to look the Minister in the eye when he answers me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u237	I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u238	Because it's still the Minister of Finance, of course, so we should always keep an eye on the wallet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u239	This suggests that I should look at Mr Kox in particular rather than the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u240	I do not want to make it a matter of principle, but according to us, it was the doctrine that Borrowing for spending is not allowed. Borrowing for other purposes, we have indeed done so in the past. My question was: if it is a change of doctrine, which, of course, could be, is it sufficient that the EU Legal Service says that it can? The Council of State is more critical of it. What is the possible risk that we run if it turns out that at some point any relevant body says it shouldn't be? It's a question of fact. Why do we rely on the EU Legal Service and not on our Council of State if it is at least contrary to the letter of the arrangement so far, and what is the financial risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u241	I understand. I also realize that I really have to pay attention to the moment Mr Kox says that he is actually asking a very factual question and looking very trustingly at it. I have no reason to doubt the views of the service, not only because of that, but also because of that. As I understand the Council of State, this House reiterated that some Members here also referred to the precedent, which may mean and to what extent you could have such a discussion next time. Moreover, it is true that the Commission has been working on it for a long time and we have been working on it again. I believe that since the mid-1980s it has been lending on the capital market for all kinds of things. That is about much smaller things, I say immediately. It is far more obscure and some of those arrangements have also stopped. But the stylish figure that the Commission lends to the Union on the capital market is not new. The Council's Legal Service subsequently confirmed this. Nor is it true that it has been said very widely by all kinds of lawyers of the highest caliber in the Netherlands or outside the Netherlands: but that is in fact total nonsense; you should then amend the treaty. That is what Mr Kox is pointing out. So I feel sorry for this advice. In any case, I did not understand the Council of State in such a way as to say that it could, but then you must be able to give yourself a different legal basis on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u242	But the Minister also knows that it is not for nothing that Jan and alleman are asking: this is a precedent; we are not going to repeat this simply because we have done it now. That has to do with no borrowing for spending. The minister says we've been doing this for a long time. That's right, but that was for daily sins, for minor crimes. The Minister knows that better than I do. Now we're talking about a mortal sin, you could say, and that's why it can only happen once. Whether you can get forgiveness for that or something, I don't know yet. That depends on the different learners. But I am concerned about the next question. If we say that this can be done in this unique case, we say very emphatically: it is only in this unique case, and no one can say in the future that we can do it because we have already done it once? The Minister now says: in the eighties we made all these things. It's fast, though, that you're using one event as an argument for another event.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u243	Yes. In my opinion, to do justice to Mr Kox's question, you have to pull some things apart. What I wanted to argue is that this figure of borrowing by the Commission on the capital market is not without precedent. Mr Kox is still right in saying that what has happened here is something very exceptional. Something has never happened before because it involves a much larger amount, because it is a much larger programme with much more political capital in it, and because it also has very large repercussions in Member States. So Mr Kox is absolutely right about that. The question of whether this is a precedent will tell the future. Each next cabinet I would suggest and then look very closely at all the pluses and minuses. There is no title why you would repeat this next year or the following year anyway. But I know the friends and friends in Europe well enough to know that few Member States continue to change course. So there are those Member States that thought that this was already quite adequate, that it should be really robust reforms and that it would also be wise, for example, to put public finances in order. Many of the Member States that found this is more or less of the same opinion. There are also Member States that say: this tastes like more. I cannot forbid them from doing so, but it is not yet a precedent. That is only if next time we were persuaded to do something similar. Because then it turned out to be a precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u244	So I don't have to make a motion on that. The Minister says: in the eyes of the Dutch Government, this is not a precedent, no matter what the friends in other parts of Europe think. The Dutch Government says that we have now taken this decision, and a subsequent decision must be assessed on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u245	Yeah, absolutely. But I'm going to say it very precisely. At the moment, it is not possible to assess whether something is a precedent. Some Members are concerned that this is a precedent. Others may hope that this is a precedent. I maintain that this in no way obliges you to do anything similar. Of course, negotiating parties are always free to ask for anything at all. I hope that I have provided Mr Kox with a satisfactory response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u246	I have a further question to ask about what Mr Kox just said. I took up the opinion of the Council of State on the precedent, Article 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the so-called no bailout clause. That is what the Legal Service of the Council is cited, which the Minister himself spoke about. The Council of State writes: "The Legal Service also sees no fundamental impediments to the introduction of such Eurobonds in Article 125 TFEU. However, the government does not pay attention to this. In the section's view, this EMB may have a significant precedent. It is now clear from the EMB that the Treaty provisions do not, in principle, prevent the introduction of a system of eurobonds." That's different from what I just heard from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u247	No. No, Mr Kox and I were just agreed on that. Mr Kox rightly said to me: the fact that there is a precedent for borrowing by the Union on the capital market is, in itself, a very poor basis for moving towards this much larger vehicle with much more repercussions. I just agree with him. So there was a title. There was, of course, a precedent. But I don't think that's convincing in itself. The Council of State says this could be a precedent. The Council of State says, quoting the Legal Service, that there would also be no objection to Eurobonds in that interpretation. My fundamental point was, and remains, that you have to find something politically about it, that you have something politically about Eurobonds. I insist that these are not eurobonds. Why do I find these Eurobonds, those classic Eurobonds like France that has ever proposed before, unwise? Because in the Union we are currently in, it is not so much a matter of principle but a matter of substance that we feel the differences in budgetary policy, the economic status of the crop and the political capacity to carry out reforms are so great that, as a Member State that pays more interest, you might in the short term reap the benefits of it, but in the long term remove the incentives to provide sound public finances yourself. That is why I am and will remain against these Eurobonds, but that is really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u248	That's beside the point. I'm not talking about Eurobonds. These are not eurobonds. It is a matter of precedent. There is, because of course this is a first step on a slippery wreck, on a sloping plane. This now sets a precedent, bearing in mind Mr Juncker's words: 'We continue and if nobody objects, we proceed'. That or something like that he has ever said: no one understands and we just keep going on as long as no one rings the bell. That's what you see here. Of course, it is now said that the debt will be paid off on 31 December 2058, but how real does the Minister consider it to be? Because the chances that this is a start to the capital market and that these debts are simply extended and refinanced are, of course, many times greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u249	In view of the speed of the debate, I am not going to comment on the reflections, but simply answer the question: that seems real to me. But we've already heard members who hope to be 106 in 2058. I therefore hope to be still a member of this house in a state of blazing health. I hope to be in good health by then, but that will tell the future. I would therefore like to say to Mr Otten that I think it is real that this is being repaid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u250	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u251	But my question hasn't been answered. I ask whether this has a precedent for Eurobonds. That's what the Council of State says. The Council of State also says that the government has not made this clear. Then the Minister says: no, these are not eurobonds. That's right. We didn't talk about that either, but the precedent is there. I don't hear the Minister about that. We are confusing two things here: Eurobonds and the precedent. The precedent is indeed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u252	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u253	If we read the minutes of this debate again this weekend because then we have nothing better to do, then we will see that Mr Otten's last question was to me: is it real that the amount will be repaid in 2058? My answer to that was: yes, that is real. I therefore believe that that question was adequately answered. With regard to the question of whether this is a precedent for Eurobonds, I should like to refer to the exchange of views with Kox just now: that is not to be ruled out, but in itself there is no title that would set a precedent. Given the great differences, I would consider it myself, but with that I speak as Minister of Finance in a outgoing cabinet, which hopefully is the tail of this cabinet period too, I sincerely do not think it is wise to move to eurobonds. That's not a principle. Basically, you would also be against eurobonds if you were in it with Germany, Finland, Switzerland and Norway. Then you have a different story, because then you all have more or less similar positions on the capital market and also similar policies in the area of public finances and a similar perspective on public debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u254	I hear the Minister telling me that he is not in favour of Eurobonds. I can imagine anything. One of the reasons was that interest rates are no longer disciplined because there are major economic differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u255	Well, there are a lot of reasons for that. Let me give you a theoretical example. One country has a relatively low public debt and pays over that sovereign debt per euro borrowed 1% and another country pays 5% and has a huge debt. That would, of course, mean that the Member State would benefit greatly from moving to eurobonds, because that would immediately reduce interest charges. That, of course, removes some of the incentive, as we are all living in a situation that was unthinkable for my colleagues Kok or Zalm, because for every euro you borrow, you will not get the hell out of your spending the next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u256	I have understood the Minister correctly, but the recovery fund is doing exactly the same, because the Dutch government is not going to borrow on the capital market. Fortunately, because we have our economy in order, we can borrow cheaper on the capital market. So we don't use that, but Italy does because they get lower interest rates and so it works less disciplined according to the Minister. So then we put the cart...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u257	The horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u258	No, as far as I am concerned, we are putting the horse in front of the car and I hope and expect it to be together with the VVD Group, but that will show this debate. This is also part of a much wider set of agreements. What are some fundamental differences with the classic Eurobond? With the classic eurobond as France has ever proposed, each Member State can finance its own sovereign debt with that eurobond, no matter what you do. That's a very different type of style figure. You don't just have to stick to the expenditure you have at the moment, but you can do quite a lot of other things at that hugely low rate. That is, however, quite different. These are plans to be sanctioned by the Commission for a maximum amount. There would be no mention of this in the previous French proposal. The second is this. It is not likely, but what if most of the Member States went under? Each Member State shall then be liable for the total amount. Well, that's different here, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u259	Finally, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u260	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. It is not a precedent that the European Commission is borrowing directly on the capital market. It is a precedent that they used to do that for the Ortoli facility through the EIB and now it is doing it directly. And that is a very different setting, which I pointed out in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u261	Sure. As far as the exegesis of the word "precedent" is concerned, further decorating is taking place in this debate, so is my interim conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u262	We have now talked about incantations and possible precedents for about a dozen minutes. Eventually it is a political process, says the Minister, in front of everyone. He also replied clearly to Mr Kox's point. Actually, I'd like to add something else. There's also a chance. One of the discussions we have had here is that country-specific recommendations are not followed year by year, including by our own country. This gives an opportunity to use targeted reforms that need to be adopted by the European Commission and which are subject to money at a time when the need is highest. So there is an opportunity to achieve something in the mismatch between the ECB, monetary financing and politically lagging behind in integration in Europe. Does the Minister see that as well, or am I too optimistic here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u263	I don't know if you should put that in the color bath of optimism or pessimism. I would then like to cut off the section on the integration of the European Union that Mr Backer mentioned, because I do not think that is what this is about. In my view, this is the mismatch between the economic position of a number of countries situated in the north in particular versus a number of countries situated in the south in particular. That has, of course, been the concern of the Commission, which I also agree with. I also agree with many of Mr Backer's remarks. What has been the Commission's concern? All Member States have a huge blow both in the area of the macro-economics and in the area of public finances. And who's gonna have the hardest time recovering from that? Those are the ones who were the weakest in the world anyway. Well, that's not so crazy, because it's true with more things in life. If you have a good starting position and something nasty happens to you, you'll scramble up faster than when your starting position was already weak. So I agree with that logic of the Commission. I also agree with Mr Backer on the potential opportunity, which the Netherlands has also convinced. At the same time, therefore, the coming period is also so relevant. What we will have to judge with each other is what the debate here is still closed in the future, and that is what the Netherlands sees as the heart of this agreement. Is the combination of investment and reform with money in exchange, including what is next on the mat? If that happens, I agree with Mr Backer that the key factor is the individual Member State that is being pulled over the threshold, and so is the citizens of those Member States. Certainly the young generation, which Mr Ester rightly asked for, has also been helped. Then it is good for the Member State and for the Union as a whole. If Member States eventually decided not to do so, and if that were to be met with money, my prediction would be that this would result in a significant crisis of confidence. Because if that title expires and we continue on the road we were on, then reciprocity is so far-reaching that many, including in the Netherlands, will wonder whether it is reasonable to call on so much solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u264	Mr President, I would almost think of the word 'precedent' at such a time, which is the wrong precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u265	That is why it is so essential that last week I spoke to one of the Commissioners about the execution by the Commission... There is a great responsibility on the part of the Member States, but there is also a very great responsibility on the part of the Commission. Because if this goes wrong and if those who are already sceptical about this were rightly to know about it in a few months' time, then the Commission and the Union risk losing reasonable, sensible, reciprocal forces in a number of Member States, including the Netherlands. That's what's at stake here in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u266	I would like to go back to the exegesis on precedent. If I have listened to the Minister correctly, he says, translated into my own words, that the Treaty does not oppose Eurobonds, but that depends on political considerations and conditions. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u267	No, I've commented... Otherwise, we're really gonna jump to conclusions. Mr Otten stood at the interrupting microphone and quoted how the Council of State itself interprets the remark of the legal service interpreting the Treaty. I can't make all that mine. What is essential here and what this cabinet, and I would very much hope for another cabinet, does not like, is that original form of Eurobonds. Why not? Because I firmly believe that this is not reasonable to the Dutch taxpayer and that, given the lack of reciprocity and the incentives it offers, you will ultimately not help weaker Member States. It's good for the short-term feeling, but in the longer term you really have to wonder if you've been helped with that. But once again, I repeat it, and I think that I am really speaking on behalf of the whole cabinet, and that is something other than saying that you are against Eurobonds in the main. 'Cause that means you wouldn't want them in any way. I am the main one against the death penalty, but not the main one against those Eurobonds. No, because a Union is quite conceivable, at least in theory, in which Member States are so much alike, have the same capital ratings, have the same philosophy about public finances, which may occur once and even the Netherlands could say yes to it. But I think we're a long way from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u268	What the Minister is saying is, in fact, an exact demonstration of political considerations. The treaty does not oppose it. That was my summary. The Treaty does not oppose it, because we have done it this way. They are not eurobonds in the classic sense, but they are a little bit in that direction. The Treaty does not oppose this. I understand very well what you're saying next. You say: you have to see what conditions there are, what kind of Union there is, what kind of crisis situation there is. That is exactly the political balance that comes with it. I'm afraid the Minister is trying not to take the final step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u269	No, I'm not taking the first step either. Mrs Karimi says: in my opinion, nothing in the Treaty opposes these Eurobonds. I'm a crippled lawyer who can't shake that one-two-three out of my sleeve on the basis of the treaty. So if she wants a definitive answer from the Dutch Government, I will contact the Minister of Justice. I don't know how useful that is. On the political front, I agree with her; you can be political for it or against it. By the way, suppose you'd be very much in favour of it, but the treaty would oppose it, then you could change the treaty. The situation is that I do not come, as a member of this cabinet, to the question of whether the Treaty is opposed to the pure Eurobonds, yes or no. My suspicion is that people might disagree with Mrs Karimi. I am not going to answer that question because I think it is an unwise idea in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u270	Mrs. Karimi, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u271	Yes, Chairman, finally. I believe that the Minister does say to the First Chamber that, on the one hand, whether I choose a precedent or not, we can assess it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u272	That is the nature of precedents, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u273	No, no, I wasn't finished. So we can judge that later. At the same time, you say that what is happening now is according to the Treaty. You say that, or you won't put it here. At the same time, you do not want to accept that this will also allow Eurobonds to be found politically appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u274	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u275	I would like to refer to my previous answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u276	Firstly, I am grateful to the Minister for his clear political position on Eurobonds. I think he has explained very well that as long as the divergence in Europe with 27 countries is what it is, Eurobonds would actually be the end of Europe, which we would all like for the future for our children. In theory, you can have Eurobonds in a few countries in northern Europe. My question is the following, regardless of whether or not Eurobonds can legally or not. The Minister is clear about this and I share that view. I am very concerned about the attitude of Germany and France. Germany and France have recently indicated, at the same time or not, that they actually think that the Recovery Fund is a good thing to repeat. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that. Scholz added to that, and I recalled that by saying that the Recovery Fund is actually a step towards European fiscal union. What does the Minister think of the remark made by Germany and France? In Southern Europe people hear and perhaps people think that the rules on the recovery fund are quite strict, but if we do not come out now and we do not reform again, there will be a second recovery fund. Then the pressure on the no longer precedent is much greater and we run the risk of using twice a recovery fund, we are actually in the trap of the eurobonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u277	I should then see those statements more precisely. I do not know whether Mr Scholz made those statements as German Finance Minister or as a campaigning SPD. He's running for Kanzler's office. France has long had the desire to withdraw a euro area budget. Undoubtedly on the basis of the conviction that this is good for the Union, but it will also have been thought that this is good for France. That's okay, too. That's the way it is in the great human world. Mr Van Rooijen knows the views on this specific euro area budget and what the pluses and minuses are. With regard to the precedent, I would like to refer to the extensive exchange of views with Mr Kox. I do not think it is so important whether it is a precedent or whether it will turn out to be a precedent. Next time, based on the content of what is on the table and what is on the table for this country and for the Union, you will have to consider whether you say yes or no to it. I agree with Mr Backer on this point. I find that much more relevant than whether it has happened three times before and yet you say no or if it has never happened before and yet you say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u278	Thanks for the answer. Apart from what Mr Scholz said, let me take a look at France and Germany. The idea of the Recovery Fund comes from there, spring last year, following an otherwise very good starting point, the covid crisis. But my fear is that in the south, where there is no tendency to reform, people are saying: we now have a recovery fund. Some say three quarters has nothing to do with covid, but this aside. I am so afraid that this can be the prelude to a second step at some point, again under the flag of an exception, and that it will lead us to a slippery slope, which means that, without calling it Eurobonds for regular expenditure, we will swim in that trap along a side road. What does it matter what it's called if we're going to carry more and more of each other's debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u279	Yes. As far as I am concerned, that is to say, with conviction, that the Union is built on a combination of solidarity and reciprocity. That the huge importance of this is also that Member States who may be net contributors can and want to experience it. And that this depends on the feeling that there are also fair and reasonable agreements for everyone. What I really like about this plan is that these CSRs, the country-specific recommendations, are finally being worked out, which countries specifically recommend. Why? Because, of course, for three and a half years, for two and a half years in that Union, I saw how countries were incredibly close to it. In fact, the only reason for the average Member State, some of them have done so, but for many Member States, especially those which did not already have the best starting position, this was only done in an earlier stage because the ESM passed it, because that troika passed it. They therefore needed an external incentive. This is a slightly different route. Let's hope it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u280	Mr Van Rooijen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u281	I asked this question on the basis that I felt that we did have elections, but of course they are once again saying that the feeling of solidarity must remain in Europe, as the Minister says, among our people, but also in other countries, especially in the north-west. But then it is essential that those countries that benefit greatly from this solidarity and understandably recognise and accept that there are limits to help us, and that there are also obligations to live up to the agreements together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u282	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u283	That is why I pointed out that I believe that it is important for the long term, and also for the Union as a whole to flourish, that solidarity and reciprocity go hand in hand. That's not a north, south, west or east principle. I believe that this is in the interests of the Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u284	Minister, let me ask you something, are you halfway through your first block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u285	I'm a little further, but it was a winding path full of thorns and thistles. So I do have a few more meters to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u286	Then I propose to the Chamber that at least the Minister conclude the first block first. He'll be able to make a few meters. If he indicates when the first block is ready, then there may be interruptions. I note that the Chamber agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u287	I think I have answered Mr Essers' question about a longer life. The same applies to his question when the debate on a similar recovery instrument would come again. He quite rightly recalled that it was of course also an exceptional economic crisis, which was the inspiration of the whole vehicle. Mr Ester was right to ask about the intergenerational balance. How do you make this work for the young? I think this is a very right point, because if you look at, for example, the state of youth unemployment, especially in the southern Member States, that is something to be very concerned about. Of course, we all know that some of these young people do work, but in the informal economy. Yet these statistics look tearful. That's what we need to do. I also think it is a very good point for me, and for another cabinet, to take it. I do not see, however, that I hope Mr Ester will be able to accept this, and how I can provide an additional intergenerational test for the proposal as it is now almost everywhere. I would like to make a great deal of effort, but this is certainly too much for me. Mr Van der Linden asked who at the time, during the government agreement in 2017, was and was not for eurobonds. At this time of transparency, I would almost like to say that we need to request the minutes. But I wasn't one of them. I have a dark brown suspicion, but I must remain guilty of the answer. We have discussed Mr Ester's question about the precedent. Mrs Karimi asked about the Heads of Government and who did what. The first phase, which was not about this but about SURE and access to the ESM, was located in May last year and was reserved for the Eurogroup and Finance Ministers. The Heads of Government then negotiated this package in July. But as always: when I sit in the eurogroup, I call Mr Rutte a few times a night out of his bed. He's had three days and three nights of meetings. I was in a small and clammy cottage in the south of France and I often had him on the phone three days between noon and six in the morning. There is, of course, contact about this, but it is primarily a matter for the Heads of Government. Whoever sits at the table, with a mandate, naturally has the most freedom of action. Mr Ester asked about the balance between loans and subsidies. I think that balance is reasonable. I have noticed that most Member States are more interested in subsidies than in loans, but that may not be entirely surprising. Mrs Karimi asked how, now that the crisis is taking longer, I look at the size of the fund. I agree with those who have just said that at least it is not the case that countries have completely lost out in the crisis because the fund was not there yet. What I find rather uncomfortable is that the fund is quite far behind the moment when we had the greatest worries. One of the most fascinating things is that no matter how many things go wrong in the economic sphere in the European Union, the need is not dramatically more than three, six or nine months ago. There is still a lot of work to be done in the Union, and there are a lot of things you don't necessarily have to be optimistic about when it comes to the capacity for sustainable economic growth, but nine or twelve months ago I signed up for the situation we are in. Not when it comes to how long Corona has lasted, but when it comes to how much damage we have suffered economically. Especially in the Netherlands, but also in many other countries, it is smaller than I had previously feared and actually expected. Mr Koole rightly asked for the principle of solidarity. We have been able to express this solidarity very strongly and lard with tens of billions. I think that balance is good, but I am in favour of the combination of solidarity and reciprocity. I hope that goes for him, too. Then Mr Kox asked whether it had been considered to cancel the debt burden of heavily affected countries. I am not sure, but I think that in the nights when the Heads of Government sat together, they did not play, because that is much more about restructuring a country in an ESM-like context, where it can no longer pay and get into acute trouble. That is, of course, something different from what has been negotiated here. I'm afraid to say for sure, but I don't think that's what came over. I have answered Mr Backer's question about the Commission and his more fundamental point of view as to whether this potential is also an opportunity. I've done Mr. Ester's part of the loan. Mr Schalk asked what the size of current prices is. 750 billion is the amount from 2018. We assume 2% a year in current prices. You will probably be talking about around 800 billion in 2021 and that will increase. The entire MFF is subject to a 2% deflator; that is not new. Mr. Chairman. Then I've done this block. However, I would like to point out that the next block is of course a lot about the RRF. So I can start with that, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u288	I'm just checking to see if there's any interruptions at the moment. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u289	I lost the order of the cubes for a while. This was, of course, also due to the active discussion that took place. I would like to come back to a point made by the Minister in this block. Maybe he'll come back later. We'll find out. It was about the plans that the Netherlands is going to submit. He already mentioned the CSRs. They're obvious. This concerns the labour market and the housing market. None of that is new. So my question is also whether these kinds of subjects will also be included in the Dutch plans that are now being prepared. Are these the subjects indeed? There is even more in the Commission's opinions. Last year's opinion from the Commission to the Netherlands states that steps need to be taken to fully address the characteristics of the tax system that can allow aggressive tax planning. Is that also part of the RRF plan that the Netherlands will hopefully submit soon? The second element is that the Minister said: we are outgoing; it is chic to wait for a new House of Representatives. A new House of Representatives is now in place. Then he said: we must wait for the negotiating parties. I'm actually wondering if we should. You can still very well submit plans that are submitted to the entire Second and First Chambers. There doesn't necessarily need to be a new cabinet. Of course, the negotiating parties, whatever they may be, are there, but you can prepare the plans, because it needs some urgency to submit them. I'm very curious when that moment really comes. Can the Minister mention an exact moment? The third element, which was also referred to, is what happens after this RRF. Indeed, this RRF is on its own. I'll leave the whole discussion on precedents for a while. You can still think about what to do after. I have heard Mr Essers say that there must be some provision for future crises. I also asked for a plan for after this RRF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u290	Thank you, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u291	Does that mean that the Minister is in the process, at European level and in the cabinet, of discussing possible ideas for thinking after this RRF about a provision for crisis situations where it is also possible, for example, to borrow money on the capital market with all the reciprocity that comes with it and to use it for certain purposes in the Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u292	This was a series of questions that actually sounded like a second term, but I would, of course, like to give the Minister a chance to answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u293	We have, of course, discussed so many things in interruptions that I have done some of the things that are in later blocks. I'll start with the last question. I think that for most Member States they are already very satisfied when we finally push this thing away. It is not the case that we are now discussing the question of doing this again. From a Dutch perspective, I would also like to see whether, for example, the reforms underlying this plan are actually being implemented. In the meantime, I and the whole Eurogroup have an obligation, however difficult that is politically, to do the things that make the Union more financially and economically agile and stable. That is why the discussions on the banking union, for example, continue. That's why the discussions about those AQRs, those asset quality reviews, continue. That is why the discussion is about whether the ESM should look a little different than it did five or ten years ago. So that's all going on. The fact that we are not already talking about something that has exactly these contours again, I honestly find it very understandable, because everyone is now wondering whether it will work when it is ratified. That was my answer to the third question. Then there is the second and the first question. It cannot be ruled out at all that, as a outgoing cabinet, we still have to submit those plans. At the same time, I ask: when did we start to come to that logic that as a cabinet we wanted to involve others, and that we did not want to decide that as a cabinet? That was in the period November, December; then we were in the last months of this cabinet. In addition, the process was significantly delayed by the legal exercise of two Member States in particular. Then, of course, the formation will take longer than expected, so I myself have said in the cabinet, but also in a different capacity, to Mr Tjeenk Willink: if it would take too long, then perhaps there are matters that the outgoing cabinet still needs to resolve. That's where I mentioned nitrogen, and that's where I called it RRF. So it's not out of the question, but I think it makes sense that you're also trying to look at what a future cabinet might want. That, I think, is the last piece of the answer. Look, of course, you're gonna end up on some big sensitivities right away. Because what does Mr Koole call him? I understand that very well from his political point of view. He said: I would very much like to get on with the tax avoidance and the letterbox companies from those CSRs; I would actually like to get on with that. There are also parties who will say: I really do not want to go into this at all; I would like to move forward with less fixed contracts. Other parties could say: yes, but I actually want more security in the labour market, so I want to give priority to fixed contracts. Other parties will say: yes, but I would finally like to get rid of this mortgage interest rebate. Those are such big and sensitive themes that you cannot do that in one very fast movement as a cabinet. So that has been our initial response, and still is, apart from all the official preparation that is of course simply done, "we want to do that with the forming parties and with the Chamber," I really think it's justifiable. Are we gonna make it through to the end? Well, if we're gonna form another six months, then of course we're gonna let that go. Then we are going to have the debate on this. Mr President, I think I have done justice to every main question and every sub-question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u294	Mr Koole's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u295	It's definitely not a second term yet. But can the Minister say on this point when a plan has to be submitted at the latest? If it can be within the formation, it can be within the formation, the Minister says. But if that were not possible, when is there simply a deadline for European action? When should the plan be in place, so that the plans can still be implemented in good time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u296	I should have said that a moment ago, but it was rightly referred to by speakers in the first term. It is not, then, that if you have not settled it on 1 September, let alone today, as Mr Otten suggested a little bit, the money is suddenly gone. That's out of the question. The committee wants this thing to be a success, so it also wants the Member States to spend it. It's not like you're gonna miss income somehow when you don't spend it sooner. It is at best that you can only reap the material fruits of course when you have implemented something. So that's the only thing; that's obviously the loss of time you're running out of. But I don't think it has to be before September 1st, October 1st or November 1st. At the same time, I did not say to Tjeenk Willink for nothing: if it takes too long, then I think this cabinet should lay an egg on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u297	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u298	When is it too long?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u299	It is of course very nice to give a precise answer to that. But just take it today. One of the party leaders has just said that she thinks, expects or hopes that the formation will be ready in July. I don't think so myself. I think that's richly optimistic, but it's her right to find it. What if she's right? The formation on that route will take very serious forms in the fairly short term. Then, of course, it is very obvious that Mr Koole's problem will resolve itself. But what if it fails, that the formation is wrecked again, and the prophecy becomes that you're going into the third or fourth quarter? Then we'll have to get on with it. So that's about the contours as I see them. I see that I have made Mr Koole very happy with the precision of this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u300	In his first block, with all the details, the Minister has made a few points very clear. So far, no use has been made of the ESM already in place, despite the depth of the corona crisis and its economic impact. There are very strict reform conditions that make it possible to use the resources in the EMB. There has also been such an interest rate for a long time now that it is also expected that even countries with less flocusing ratings than the Netherlands can still borrow fairly cheaply. If you look at all this, the following question is appropriate at the moment: why this EMB? Why do all the countries that need it and do not just want to borrow on the capital market themselves, and does not just say to the Netherlands: "Guys, fun and nice, we let this circle pass. If you want to do business in the country, fine. Then go on the capital market yourself, but we'll take care of it." Why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u301	Then I'm back to one of the things I said in an earlier block. At the time, it was the Commission's conviction that the corona crisis only increased the differences between the better functioning economies and the less functioning economies after the corona slogan had crossed the country. One of the ways to get out of this situation is by ensuring that countries finally find the path to sustainable economic growth. This is going to be an important step, whether we like it or not, through reforms and through sensible investment. That is the Commission's recipe. I would have agreed with Mr van der Linden if we had had to deal with a very different type of crisis, in which the capital position of countries is such that they do not actually have access to the capital market. If that situation had changed, you could say that the problem has been solved. It is therefore a different type of problem from the banking crisis and then the euro crisis. Those were countries where you saw the spreads go up hugely. In the end, they threatened to lose access to the capital market. That was a different type of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u302	Now it's going towards the spreads and the like. I am just trying to keep it as simple as possible in my contributions so that people who are less introduced can follow it. Why don't these countries, with all these possibilities, just borrow themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u303	I just tried to answer that. It is the conviction of the Commission and the Cabinet that it is good for the individual Member States and for the Union as a whole if you manage to identify with this package that the Member States implementing the measures are accelerating the path towards sustainable economic growth. This is good for those Member States, for the inhabitants of the Member States and ultimately for the Union as a whole. I hope that does not disappoint the hundreds of thousands of viewers on the website of the First Chamber, but that would be my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u304	There's been a lot of them. Finally, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u305	Yeah, I think millions. Okay, that's clear, but then I also understand that the countries that like to use the fund say, "We prefer not to borrow ourselves on the capital market, but we prefer to borrow through the fund, because then we will be kept in a strong position to carry out reforms. If we borrow ourselves, we're gonna do all kinds of other shit with it." I'm gonna charge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u306	No, it's still different. The most attractive piece for the Member States is, of course, the donations, the subsidies. That is what the reforms are about. Depending on country ratings, these countries will use or not use the loan part. Back in May, I made an agreement that you can borrow up to 2% from the ESM for medically related corona. We negotiated this in a long meeting. None of the ladies and gentlemen then took advantage of it. One of the reasons that the Netherlands thought that was wise was that you left that fund intact as a whole. Mr. Chairman. For the rest, perhaps I should refer to my previous answer, if Mr Van der Linden agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u307	I thought it was Mrs. Karimi's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u308	No, I've been here a long time. I had a question in addition to what, among other things, Mr Koole raised. I do not think it is important for the quality of the answer if there are ten or a hundred thousand people watching the live stream. That shouldn't make a difference. I took a look at the country-specific recommendations. What did the EU say to the Netherlands about what the Netherlands country-specific should do for 2020 and 2021? These are just four points: tackling the corona crisis, ensuring that health care functions properly, mitigating the social consequences of the crisis...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u309	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u310	It's just four points, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u311	This is your tenth interruption today, so you are now at your 30th question. So can you keep the question brief? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u312	Yeah, but it's relevant. The last point was doing something about aggressive tax planning. That's four non-world-shattering recommendations. Why...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u313	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u314	Why can't we find a solution to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u315	The agreement was made to look at the country-specific recommendations and the country-specific recommendations of the past. Indeed, there is a high degree of consistency in those recommendations, which countries have often pursued for years. Of course, things are coming up and things are going down, but in general, you will see that major reform-related issues are attached to them. I think that in the Dutch context you will find great differences in what parties want or do not want. In addition, they will want to trade out when they are at the negotiating table. I think that makes sense, too. I can draw about what, for example, Mr Koole's party would like. My observation is that that is really different from what Mr Van Ballekom's party would like to bring in. If the two of them, and perhaps others, end up at the negotiating table, then they will want to invent a trade-out that does justice to both parties, and to any other parties. If you don't have to, you're not gonna move on that in advance. So I think that makes sense. I very much agree with Mr Koole that this would of course have been different if the deadline had been, so to speak, 1 July. Then you don't want to let that money go. But that money doesn't run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u316	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u317	You are in the government, so you must rule. Well, then you can't tell every little problem that comes up on the road that you need to discuss it with all those parties first? Make a proposal and defend it in parliament, including in the Upper House. Maybe you would have gone a lot further with this whole reform policy. So I think it is a very wait-and-see attitude on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u318	What's your question? You don't have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u319	It was now known to me that the cabinet would never meet Mr Otten's standards. I have to reconcile with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u320	Following on from Mr Koole's question, I have the following question. Under normal circumstances, I would understand very well. If there was no crisis, you could say: okay, that will be part of the negotiations. But at the moment, the Netherlands is on the one hand in a very specific political situation, where you can just say that the formation will take a long time. On the other hand, of course, we have a crisis as a result of the pandemic. It goes without saying that you expect a different attitude from the outgoing cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u321	What is your question, Mrs Karimi?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u322	Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u323	For the sake of clarity, I would like to say: no, or at least not at this stage. Here's what I'm gonna say. We did that precisely because we think it makes sense that you're not going to rule over your grave. I have already indicated that if it lasts long enough, I will not only be making the next budget later, but I will also be doing a great deal of work on the substance. If it lasts long enough, then you also have to go into Q3 and Q4 of everything. At the same time, I think it makes sense for you to do that in dialogue. I also think that the Chamber would have been much more critical, and would have had the right to be much more critical, if we had done so with the old coalition somewhere in the last few months. I know exactly what the Chamber would have said, namely: how dare you, outgoing, so shortly before the elections, take this even through? That would have been the reaction of the Chamber and I understood it. Something else, which I still think is important, is this. Mrs Karimi now says: yes, but the problems are so great that we cannot wait. I do not want to make that 6 billion smaller than it is, but if you see it in the perspective of the many tens of billions that we have paid for corona support, I say this as Minister of Finance who thinks that we should handle the money wisely, then that 6 billion will not change the country drastically. I do not want to free Mrs Karimi from an illusion, but I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u324	I hope we'll get together. Indeed, I understand that 6 billion in proportion to, for example, the 60 or 80 billion spent so far by the government, by the cabinet, is not that much. At the same time, however, it is important for the Netherlands to make use of these measures itself. In this sense, it is therefore politically important for the cabinet to take action. I also understand that the Minister says: I do not want to present a ready-made plan with a missionary government. No one's saying that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u325	What is your question, Mrs Karimi?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u326	The question is whether the Minister is prepared to present the plans he has prepared to the Chamber and to look together at where the consensus surrounding the reforms and investments lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u327	You can't do that. You can't do that. How's that gonna work? The moment there will be an effort from the Netherlands, that is information that does not concern legislation, but which the House of Representatives will probably want to find. Then there will be a debate before the items are sent to Brussels. The Commission will then say: we are pouring it into a particular mould. This will result in cases which will then be transposed into legislation. Then it goes to the Lower House and then to the Upper Chamber. But it really cannot be that we are spreading official documents at this stage and that we are going to find some of them. That would really lead to very curious decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u328	I understand that we are moving towards a different political and administrative culture. This would be a very good time to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u329	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u330	I very much agree with that, but then my challenge would be to improve the governance culture rather than less sensible. I'm not going to put this thought on the list immediately for my second conversation with Mrs. Hamer. But I understand what direction Mrs Karimi's thoughts are heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u331	For the record, Minister, you are now at the end of your first block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u332	I started second. We have done a lot of that by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u333	How about we let the Minister finish the second block and keep the interruptions until after the second block has been completed? Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u334	Mr Koole's question was about the need assessment and a possible future crisis. I think we just did that at the interruption in what you called his second term. Then I think that I have sufficiently deepened Mr Kox's question on the ESM in the comparison between one crisis and the other. Mr Van Ballekom asked: are there any differences between the conditions for the grants and the loans from the RRF? No, there are no fundamental differences between them. It is just that, as I see it, Member States are eager for the cash outs and much less for the loans. Then some questions about how and when we're going to use the RRF. Of course, we did. Mr Essers asked about Parliament's involvement. So we will do that neatly through the regular route. Anything that has to be transposed into legislation or budget laws will automatically come to the Chamber. I can only imagine that, after the cabinet has made a decision and puts things in the mail to Brussels, the House of Representatives will say: yes, but then we would like to have a debate on this first and see if we agree with that commitment. Moreover, given the status of the cabinet, it would be curious if that proposal in question could not count on a majority in the House of Representatives. I think that's exactly how it should be. Then Mr Kox asked why we do not call on the loan part. That is because of the low interest rates that we can bring into the capital market ourselves. I have answered Mr Ester's question about turning it in later and what that means for the Dutch application too, I think. I hope I have also reassured him about the time we have left. I have dealt with Mr Otten's question on the EUR 6 billion deficit. In my view, I also dealt with Mr Ester's question regarding the criteria to be met. Then Mr Kox asked which Member States have already submitted plans and how this process is going to continue. In my observation, 20 Member States and Finland have now submitted their plans. Most of the Member States have said that ratification is most likely to succeed before 1 June. I would like to include the Netherlands in that, for ease of reference, but it would be fine with the vote next week. There are also a few Member States that have said that they probably need more time. That then means that the Commission can give the real start another calendar month later, I believe. That's about the timing we're looking at. Mr Kox had also missed the word "social" in the description of the European Commission. Honestly, I thought that was a sharp observation. Moreover, one of the requirements is that a plan should contribute to "strengthening potential growth, job creation and economic, social and institutional resilience." So it's encrypted somewhere in the text, but I'm afraid less prominent than the Socialist Party would have liked it. Mr. Chairman. I think I have also answered the question from the Christian Union about the subsidy component of the Recovery Fund. That brings me to the end of the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u335	The Minister has just announced that the target date for ratification is 1 June. That's a good target date. But he has also indicated that some Member States have indicated that they need more time. Which Member States are they, if I may ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u336	Then I'm gonna have to get the list. I did... I can certainly tell Mr Van Ballekom that in this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u337	It's okay in second term too, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u338	That's what I'm gonna tell him. I believe there are still seven Member States that have to ratify. That's one less than when I had one of the Commissioners on the phone last week. I reminded him once again of the importance of reform, but he also wanted to talk to me about how long I thought the Dutch Parliament would take it. I have indicated that this is only the Dutch Parliament, not me, but that I had good hope that it could all be settled before 1 June. But I'll be right back to pick up the list. I think I have it here with the pieces. Otherwise, I'll do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u339	I know the list, but I am only interested in your remark that some Member States have indicated that they will take longer than 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u340	Yeah, or possibly longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u341	That could be one, two or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u342	I really need to... Otherwise, I'm gonna do it out of my head. I would like to reassure Mr Van Ballekom. I think I said it to Van der Linden earlier: it is not that if the Netherlands would ratify in two weeks, a week or ten days... I think that would be sometime in the days after a vote in the First Chamber, if it turned out to be positive, and next Tuesday the President will probably suggest that we vote on it. If this leads to a positive result, it is obvious that the Netherlands will start that process on Tuesday or Wednesday. Then I guess it's 24 hours or 48 hours. I honestly don't even know all those details, but then you've arranged it sometime in the next few days, before 1 June. It is not the case that if we have done all that and another Member State says 'yes, but I am not going to join' the situation would have been different than if we had been able to stretch that route. Because if someone says no, then we all have a problem and then we all go back to Brussels or wherever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u343	Since the Minister thinks he has now dealt with all the issues, I have a few comments, first of all on the definition used by the European Commission. However, I am glad that there is still the word'social' somewhere, but there has been a lot of talk from many quarters. I did not make it up myself that it seems as if the Commission is saying at once: hey, we have found money; now we are going to realise our programme. But that's not what the money was for. That money is there to overcome the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. That's why I noticed. This creative way of making money available to the Member States is not to implement the Commission's programme. I got that right, didn't I? Nor should the Commission take this into account in terms of: thank you for having a pandemic, because now we can finance our plans. It seems a bit like that, on the Commission's propaganda pages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u344	Those pages visit Mr. Kox more often than I do, so he knows more precisely what's on them. The Commission has tried to articulate what is economically sensible for the Member States, looking at issues such as innovation, greening and reforms combined with investment. And I would like to see all of them in a social way, as Mr Kox rightly says. In another way, Mr Ester also said this: do not forget the youngest generation, especially in the Member States where it is sometimes forgotten. I very much agree with that. What I agree with Mr Kox, but what I do not consider to be a major objection, is that it is not, of course, the case that each of these specific measures tackles the medical crisis that this has been in the first instance. It is a response to the devastation that has been caused in macroeconomic terms and an attempt to find the path to sustainable economic growth more quickly. I think you should see it this way. I think Kox is right to say that there are certainly things that the Commission wanted five, ten or twenty years ago. I think that these are often sensible things too, and they have now been incorporated into these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u345	Here I can only advise the Minister: visit those pages once. We are reading our own pieces here, but the Commission has a whole propaganda service, and I think they are really saying things other than what we are talking about here. That's what they said. A second question to which the Minister has not yet answered is the following. We have now found a creative way, but I think one with possible precedent and possible risk. Monetary financing is, of course, also a curse in the European Union. But is that not considered at all when the British and Americans said: we are going to do this, we are going to finance ourselves out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u346	No. That would not initially be up to the ministers. That would, of course, be primarily up to the ECB. In my view, this recipe was deliberately chosen by the Commission. The ECB has chosen all the programmes that have been rigged there in different phases. This has led to a very clear effect on the market and, moreover, to further expansion. I seem to recall that it has sometimes been briefly recalled by a Member State in the euro group. But it is not the case that the fundamental exit has been discussed: should we do this or should we actually finance monetary? At least in my memory and in my presence, that has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u347	I'm also quite often the most convinced of my own equal. It's also perfectly normal for people to do that. But if two other big blocks, partners, the United Kingdom and the United States, say 'we're going to do it through monetary financing', then we should at least think about whether there's anything to do with it. I'm never so fond of what the British and Americans do, but that doesn't mean they never do anything sensible. I am asking this because monetary financing, with the problems it raises, will in any case not increase the debt burden of the Member States, and especially of the most affected Member States, and thereby increase the prospects for recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u348	In any case, I always agree that you have to look at what works, what others do and what you can learn from it. The fact that Mr Kox is inspired by the Anglo-Saxon world is, of course, something we have to draw a heavy line on, because that is not every day. The only thing I can refer to is that... The logic of "researching everything," I simply agree with the main thrust. I am only honest in replying that I think that because of what the ECB has already done, because of the obstacles laid down in the Treaty and because of the route taken by the Commission, this combination has not been discussed at least for a long time by the various finance ministers. That's my reflection about 12 months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u349	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u350	Can I ask the Minister if he still has a chance to check whether it has been discussed in the second term? His memory is huge, but maybe not at this point. So not: monetary financing, get rid of it. Has this been discussed in the light of the fact that these two other countries did so and why was it not chosen? I understand, but I would like to know if that has been discussed and why it has been rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u351	I'll be sure to. Maybe I should just show up here with the tail between the legs. It will have been mentioned, but it has not been on the table as anything near an alternative to these measures. 'Cause I'd really remember that. But just to be sure, I will also put that question to my excellent external memory. If it's different, I'll answer that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u352	Are you going to start with the third block of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u353	I wanted to get started on that, but that external part of that hard drive is so careful that I have now received the list of Member States that have not yet ratified it. I thought that for further decorating I could finish the second block immediately. Finland voted on 18 May and possible eight ratifications by the end of May. Today, therefore, there was the parliamentary agreement, but it still needs to be formally ratified there. The view on the Netherlands is also that ratification should be possible by the end of May 2021. Austria will hold a debate in the Nationalrat on 19 May and in the Bundesrat on 27 May. It is believed that ratification should be possible before the end of May. Poland has a debate in the Senate on 27 May. The approval procedure is expected to be completed by mid-June 2021. I don't know why that is, but that's what I see here. I do not have any additional information on Hungary. Romania held a debate in Parliament on 21 May and expects to be able to conclude afterwards. But I don't have a date for that either. This is the list I have. Mr. Chairman. We have already mentioned the rule of law, and this question is actually about that. Many spokesmen referred to the violations of the rule of law by Hungary and Poland, including in relation to the recovery plan submitted. This is, of course, exactly the kind of subject that I believe you should look not only at the macro-economic reality in that Union, but also at what is ultimately being made of all these fine words about the value community. To be honest, I think it is a good thing that the Heads of Government have put their feet behind this state of law. It is also a good thing that Parliament has raised that soil a little further and a little bit. But let us be honest: the agreements that have now been made do not put an end to, for example, homo-free zones in Poland. And they are, of course, from a to z scandalous. I find it scandalous that we are in a Union where such things can exist. You can also see that journalists are having an extremely difficult time in some Member States. In other Member States it is extremely difficult for judges. And actually you hardly have a title to actually do anything about it, not even with the phenomenal recovery plan. So it is right that speakers should refer to that. Once again, I think it is really good that it has come on the agenda at least more pregnant than in an average discussion on the MFF. But I do think I speak for the whole cabinet when I say that there is still a great deal of work to be done in this area. To be honest, I find this really inadequate. I would like to say this in reflection on the comments made by a number of speakers. I come to Mr Van Ballekom's question. He said: I would like to hear an example of a violation of the principles of the rule of law which could jeopardise the Union's budget. As an example, I would like to mention the failure to respect the independence of the judiciary. This could be linked to financial interests. In the absence of effective judicial control by an independent judge, control of authorities dealing with the implementation of the Union budget, this could affect the financial interests of the Union. In such a case, the Commission could propose measures, such as the suspension of payments and commitments, to address such a breach. But that is very specific and this does not quite address the bigger problem of the judiciary, a problem that I really think I see in some Member States. But this is an example. Another example I would like to mention to Mr Van Ballekom and others is about countries that have recommendations, CSRs that are specifically about what you should still do in the area of the judiciary. These two things are, of course, very close to each other. If a Member State fails to do so, it does not comply with the specific CSR. Then the Commission also has a title. Those two things can be done, but the bigger and more fundamental problem is that there is a very different view of some things that really affect us most deeply in our democratic rule of law. We do not have these matters in all the Member States at the level we would very much like, not so much for ourselves, but for those Member States themselves and for the inhabitants of those Member States. I say that with regret, but that's the way it is. Mrs Karimi asked: what is the Netherlands doing about the Prime Minister's idea that we should think about future budgets without Poland and Hungary? For the record, the cabinet is not in favour of budgets without Poland and Hungary. Union law applies to all Member States. This applies to the own resources decision, to the MFF and to the annual budgets. But I think Mrs Karimi refers to the fact that the Prime Minister thinks that there is just a big job there, just like I do. I may say it a little sharp, but I say it with a lot of conviction, and I think the Prime Minister really agrees with me from a to z. It is simply not acceptable how things are going in some places in Europe. So we will seize every opportunity this cabinet has to make this part of the discussion. I would hope that another cabinet would try to do that again. I would hope much more that some Member States that are able to exert even more influence in Europe than the Netherlands would also make this much more serious, because of course you can lead countries to the drinking trough if you really take this seriously. I believe that the issue deserves that, both with regard to the judges and the free press and with regard to matters that we have included in Article 1 of the Constitution. I have a question here from Mr Backer on the subjects of the RRF and the submission, but I think I have just answered it in my response to interrupts. Then I have a question from Mr Van Strien about the growth of the mafia and how it plays a role in this. I think that he is primarily concerned with ensuring that European money is spent wisely without getting into the wrong pockets. I very much agree with him because I think that money that Dutch people, Germans, Finns or anyone else have earned with hard work and decisions to spend deserves a sensible destination. Moreover, in the case of reciprocity and the belief in this type of agreement, it is extremely important that you do not have to read in the newspaper that the money that has been coughed up, whether it has been provided by the Italian, Dutch or any taxpayer, would then have financed all kinds of bad practices. In the end, its assessment is up to the Commission. The Commission should assess whether the audit and control systems contained in the recovery plans that are to be included in those recovery plans provide sufficient assurance. If that were to be considered insufficient, the plan could not be approved. Next, the Commission must monitor this itself, together with OLAF and the Court of Auditors. I would, however, like to assure Mr Van Strien that the cabinet will then be the next cabinet itself, because this is essential for the confidence that we must be able to have in this type of agreement. Mr President, I think I have now done the 'right-wing' block and I am in 'other'. Excuse me, I still have "own resources"; I went a little too fast. Mr Koole asked about own resources versus taxes: what about that distinction? I don't want to make it cosmetic. It's not like I'd want to cover this up intellectually. Not at all, but this is a basis that is calculated on the basis of a national payment. It is a key, just like GNI is a key. That is, of course, something fundamentally different from a blue envelope that you get at home as an individual citizen. This does not affect national fiscal sovereignty either. So it's technically really something else. At the same time, something like "plastic taxation" sounds good. Everyone also understands what you mean by that. Then Mr Koole asked about the introduction of the carbon tax, the financial transaction tax, Mr Van Rooijen immediately jumped up; he was less enthusiastic about the carbon tax and the digital services tax. It is important to distinguish between the tax proposals and proposals for new own resources. The indicative timetable set out in the Commission's Roadmap is as follows: A proposal for the carbon tax at the border will be presented in July 2021. Two: there will be a digital charge. Three: an ETS emissions trading system. So that's relatively fast. At the same time as these proposals come the proposals for the new own resources based on them. The Council would then have to decide in the summer of 2022 on the introduction of possible new own resources by 1 January 2023. To be complete: in June 2024 a Commission proposal for a financial transaction tax is expected, including a proposal for own resources based on that financial transaction tax. Moreover, the Netherlands has said from the beginning that we are not enthusiastic about it. I also think that this is very justifiable. If you do it in a pound and you realize that the Dutch scholarship is just as big as the Italian scholarship and to a large extent also the Dutch pensioners' money goes over it, then you will come up with quite extreme distribution issues if you would proceed to that. So it's not a decision taken by this cabinet but by a previous cabinet. That is why there is broad hesitation about it in Dutch politics, that is my observation, but this is the timeline that I think Mr Koole asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u354	Thank you for the comments on the financial transaction tax and the context outlined. It would be a disaster for our pension funds. We are actually the only country that has such a large pension-private system that is now running through some 1,700 billion, with all of its transactions. Is it sufficiently clear in Brussels that, by analogy with what the French call "l'exception française," in this case should apply "l'exception néerlandaise"? For this would really disproportionately affect pensioners but also those who are 40 and 50 and who are now saving for their pensions. Who makes up the idea that funds that are already unable to index will soon be taxed away by a new tax on the work they do with employees' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u355	I realize I should have spoken the p-word with even more caution, because I could have known what I was going to say about myself. I believe that the position of the present outgoing cabinet is well known in Brussels. I assure Mr Van Rooijen that during the missionary period of this cabinet the FTT will not be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u356	But ruling is forward thinking. I do not want to provoke the Minister what a new cabinet should do, but I can assume that this minister and his party will always say clearly in negotiations: this is a bridge too far for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u357	I did not just refer to those pension funds for nothing and to the situation of that stock exchange. It is a great asset in the Netherlands that it is relatively large. So I really think it makes sense to hold onto that. I am not going to put the different hats on and off because then I am going to make things very complicated for Members. I do think that, strangely enough, there is little talk in Brussels about an intermediate variant, where Member States would all move to a certain kind of tax whereby you harmonise the playing field but the proceeds will be sent to the Member States. In that case, you do not have the problem that one feels disproportionately favoured or disadvantaged; Member States do not often feel disproportionately favoured, but certainly disadvantaged. Well, you don't. You could also solve the other problem of very different regimes. This is also something we are trying to achieve with the flight tax, for example. There are now more countries on the course of that flight tax. You would prefer that in the area of a common playing field. At the same time: if you then pay all that to Brussels, you can count on Germany, France and the Netherlands paying a disproportionate part of the bill because the most widely used airports in continental Europe are located in Germany, France and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u358	Mr Van Rooijen, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u359	But pension funds are not helped if the revenue from this tax goes to the Netherlands in part, because pension funds are private institutions that cannot just ask for money from the Empire. Here's what I have to say. I still feel that Brussels is not sufficiently aware that we have a unique pension system and that we have no idea of the damage that the buy-back policy also has for Dutch pensioners and future pensioners. In Brussels it is thought that this is a big pot and perhaps we will have to make some money out of it. But the harmful consequences didn't interest Draghi and I feel that this minister does share those feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u360	Quite precisely: I did not propose this financial transaction tax for the Netherlands, so I say for the record. I didn't do that if Demissionary Minister of Finance couldn't do it from here, either, as CDA's group chairman in the Lower House or as CDA's party leader. I merely pointed out that in that discussion I noticed that it is very often or one, namely leave everything to the way it is now, or the other, doing it all in the same way and then skimming all the proceeds to Brussels. There's an intermediate variant to think of. You can see some movement in that direction in the area of flight tax. That's what I wanted to mark. This is about the first part, otherwise I will not be able to get Mr Van Rooijen away from the interrupting microphone for the rest of the evening. As far as the second part is concerned, I think that this cabinet, as well as the previous cabinet and delegations from the Second and First Chambers, have once again made that noise. If I were ever looking for someone with a megaphone to make this sound in Brussels, I would know who I would call first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u361	Minister, you're about to begin your fourth block. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u362	Yeah, I'd like to start on the block. No, I've got one more thing lying around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u363	From the third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u364	From the one-after-last block. Mr Ester wanted a statement by the Minister on the Dutch policy on European taxation. I'd love to. It also sounds nice, a vision statement. But if I let the number of months I've been expelled work on me, I don't know exactly where that's gonna land. Could I refer Mr Ester to the discussion we just had, together with what we have been trying to do with the cabinet over the past three or four years and certainly with the Ministry of Finance when it comes to fair, bearable taxes in the Netherlands for the different groups in society? Think of relief, especially for citizens. And we have also taken really great steps, not so much me, but the Secretary of State for Finance, in the field of greening and what we consider fair when it comes to letterbox companies; the perspective has, of course, changed. This cabinet has taken really great steps in this direction. With his permission, I would like to refer to that, otherwise I will start to blush a little with that concept of 'vision statement'. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few other things in the category. Mr Backer asked about planning agency research and the welfare perspective. The essential point that he raises, I think, is that you should stress it every time, including in debates of this kind; you should start with this every time: what is the reason for the European Union for the Netherlands? I am and remain convinced that the Union has great added value for the Netherlands, not least in financial and economic terms. We have benefited greatly from it in the past, and I believe that we will most probably do so in the future. At the same time, there are important questions on the table, for example about the euro. As much good as there is to be said about the Union as a whole, so much can be said about the way in which, in my opinion, we have introduced this sensible idea of the euro. But that is not so much a discussion about what, as a discussion about how. Many of the looming errors with regard to the euro have been pulled out with traps and standing up, but I do not think that we have finished that journey. See the discussion on the Banking Union. See the discussion that is still going on about, for example, the capital market union, where I would also like to take steps. At that time I was very content that I had managed to seduce the Germans and the French to participate in an initiative. I would just like to say very specifically to Mr Backer what we can do about this and how we can get that perspective. The first track is new CPB research into the impact of the internal market on the Dutch economy. We're expecting a report this fall, but I don't have any initial findings available. Mr Backer is still being served on that. The Cabinet remains in talks with the Planning Offices and the Court of Auditors on ways to better understand the societal impact of EU policies in sub-areas. That is the second track in the longer term. Many of the discussions we have here are often about whether you are ideologically for or against them. As a result, the real essence of what the effect has been sometimes does not come above the table. Then you're going to see an idea that it's true what a lot of research from the past shows: that the European Union has a great added value for the Netherlands. But under the hood you are likely to see large differences in the effectiveness of different policy measures. I expect that this will be the subject of an intervention. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester said that there are a lot of funds and instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u365	Thanks for the first part. I was afraid for a moment that the second part would come in a drawer and the Minister confirmed that concern by his answer. I would like to know from him whether he wants to see or urge his colleagues to do so, that this second part also has hands and feet. I think this is very important, because it adds value to areas of broad prosperity, particularly the European Union, which is never really counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u366	Sure. Look, caution is in two things. The first is that I cannot be the principal of the institutions I mentioned. The second is that they have indicated that they are doing this, but also want to go about the moments of those insights. What I would like to say to Mr Backer is that I will take this subject again in conversations, as I have with the President of the Court of Auditors, for example. That's just a bit different from other research institutes where I can just say: listen, can you figure out this question for me and then I'd like to have it every once in a while. That's actually the only clause I've ever wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u367	The President of the Court of Auditors must be a mistake, because it is about the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u368	It concerns the planning agency, but also the Dutch Court of Auditors is interested in matters relating to broad prosperity. See also the whole debate that we have seen in recent years, among others by Mr Snels and Mr Sneler in the House of Representatives. This is about broad prosperity and the Court of Auditors is interested in it. The Court of Auditors is interested in the impact of policies, including European policies. That's why it could get a place there too. I say to Mr Backer that if there is information available from any of these tracks, I will share it with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I was just repeating Mr Ester's list of the funds and instruments that are all there. I agree with him that this is an impressive list. There are just a lot of policy instruments and funds. It is true that, in general, they serve very different purposes. Some are aimed, for example, at preventing unemployment, such as SURE, or at absorbing the costs of health care. That was the ESM Pandemic Crisis Support I referred to earlier. And then there's business that's really about the recovery capacity of the economy. RRF is the most important example of this. I'm not so afraid of overlaps between these different funds myself. What you do see is that Member States are able to take advantage of the opportunities that exist. Look, for example, at money made available by the EIB. It is very varied how Member States use them, how many applications they submit and where they go. This is a different type of theme than whether these funds compete with each other. That is, especially looking at what has been rigged up over the past year, not so much my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u369	I've been trying to figure out what's going on with the funds. We've got the ESM. We have the national covid funds. We have Invest-NL, we have the MFF, we have the European Semester and we have the resource decision. No matter how you spin it or turn it, it's a bit much. It's a little busy and it makes the impression that it's a huge patch blanket. This can also provoke strategic behaviour on the part of actors. I had a very specific question about the relationship, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, between, for example, Invest-NL and the decision on resources. The Netherlands does not have a plan in the form of a plan which I will comment on in the second term, but the question is: is there no overlap? It is about making the economy stronger, its sustainable component, its future prospects and all the difficult words that we have devised to achieve this. Is there not a one-to-one relationship between the Invest-NL fund and the resource decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u370	I understand very well what Mr Ester is saying. It's all vehicles to eventually make your economy stronger, more sustainable, more robust and more growth-proof. I also see that common denominator very clearly. At the same time, if you then peel off the titles and also the modus operandi of the various funds, you still see great differences. That is also a bit of the discussion we have sometimes had about the National Growth Fund and Invest-NL. Those are actually, if you look closely at them, very different things. One is revolver and is about loans, the other is cash out. The size is also different, as is the scope and the humanization. There are great differences in both objective and formatting. At best you could argue that the supreme level of abstraction is of course the goal of contributing to prosperity and hopefully also to wider prosperity. But I don't think those things bite each other. I'm a bit searching, but I'm not so worried about a coincidence that you wouldn't want between EMB and, for example, Invest-NL.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u371	For example, the construction of a railway line between the north and the middle of the Netherlands, or whatever regions you take, can be done via the funding decision, but could also be done via Invest-NL. Doesn't that lead to a curious strategic behavior that also has negative effects? People could optimize the opportunity and think: do I do it with one or the other, or maybe both? Isn't that a bit of a mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u372	I don't think so. Moreover, I would expect that such a railway line will not come to Invest-NL, given the scope. At best, you could expect it at the National Growth Fund. If that is what Mr Ester means, I can imagine. At the same time, who is talking about that money from the National Growth Fund? That is the committee that we have set up, with all the guarantees and parameters that apply to it. Who is talking about plans, reforms and investments as we submit them to the European Commission? That's directly the cabinet. The only thing I do agree with Mr Ester is that I expect to see it, but that is a very different type of discussion that there are undoubtedly parties who have set their sights, or have set their sights, on the National Growth Fund, who are then unable to achieve results and who then continue to lobby parliamentary groups in order to realise their plans. They're free to do that. So in the national dynamics, I do see that between the National Growth Fund and the normal fiscal policy. Of course, it is not a good thing if you were first rejected by the National Growth Fund, because then it does not contribute enough to these parameters. So I can see that, but I am less concerned about that at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u373	Mr. Ester, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u374	I'll weigh that differently. But who's got the national direction on the patchwork?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u375	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u376	If you find less that there is a patchwork, you may also have less need of someone who would set up the cap of national direction. If there were people who would play the most essential role in this, I would end up with the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economic Affairs and occasionally another colleague. I think that's what you're talking about. Mr. Chairman. Mr Frentrop had another question. I realize now that it's the first time I've said his name, but hopefully I've already answered many of his questions. He started with: I actually only have one question. There were, however, a few other questions in it. I hope I answered that. He also asked: why not cut back on cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy? For the record, the CAP and cohesion policy budgets have fallen by 14% and 12% respectively in real terms compared to the previous MFF. The CAP and cohesion policy now have less European money. There is also more focus on sustainability in the CAP. We are satisfied with these results as the Netherlands. What I agree with Mr Frentrop is that if you look purely at how the Netherlands would like you to focus even more on those things that provide structural strengthening and innovation and that you would like to phase out the things that we believe have less added value. But I am not dissatisfied with this particular outcome of the negotiations. Mr. Chairman. That was the end of the block. I have one more thing that has been given to me and that I am going to do in the first term: a final rebound towards Mr Kox on monetary financing. The good news is I don't have to read this with the shame on my jaws. As I said, the finance ministers are not about monetary policy, they are about central bankers. I also mentioned that this is prohibited under the Treaty and that it does not necessarily facilitate discussion. That's what my external memory has added here again, and fortunately that's both true. It is true, as I have just recalled, that there is often an explanation given by the central bankers in the euro group. In the April 2020 eurogroup, ministers discussed in a broader discussion the innovative financial instruments to finance a recovery fund. But more than that, even when looking, it hasn't been. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your patience in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u377	Thank you, Minister. Mr Essers has another question on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u378	I was curious to hear the Minister's answer to the question on Article 116.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u379	Does Mr Essers agree with me coming back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u380	That's the case. Then, on request, I shall suspend until 8.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u381	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u382	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply in the first term. In substance, I think it is very important to stress that the European Union can work well with that budget and with the recovery fund over the next seven years in this crucial time, when the world is faced with many challenges at the same time. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I had invited the Minister to reflect on the relationship between the government's commitment and the final outcome. He didn't. He didn't go into it in any way. This is important because we have a high stake every time. There are tough negotiations and then the result is different from the original commitment. To present it as being in line with the commitment is simply not good for the European Union's support. In my view, the Minister and my group find each other in the need for the broadest possible support for the European Union in the Netherlands. The invitation's on. I wonder what he will say about this in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Two more points. The first is about the Dutch plans for the recovery fund. There's something a little complicated about the Minister's reasoning. He says on the one hand that the country-specific recommendations stand and are repeated year in, year out. I'd say you can't do cherrypicking. You cannot then make the choice to do one reform and the other not. You can't trade in a tax haven for the mortgage interest deduction. So you have to address all these topics. In that sense, I believe that the outgoing cabinet can also work. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. The: Mr Karimi and Mr Koole proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the formation took longer than expected at the time of the legal treatment of the own resources decision in the Lower House;]] [[noting that, unlike most Member States, the Netherlands has not yet submitted a recovery plan to the European Commission;]] [[Whereas Member States' recovery plans will be assessed by the Commission in the near future and the Council approves the assessment of the recovery and resilience plans by means of an implementing decision based on a proposal from the Commission;]] [[Whereas, in times of crisis, rapid recovery measures reduce the negative effects of a crisis more quickly and delay the long-term recovery plan costs more money and can exacerbate the crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan so that a detailed plan can be submitted to the European Commission before 1 July in cooperation with the Missionary States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35711-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u383	Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the rule of law. I fully agree with the urgency expressed by the Minister on the state of law situation in some countries. I also agree that, with the mechanism we have now agreed, not all problems with the rule of law can be solved, but every small step helps. That's why I put in the next motion. The: Mr Karimi proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rule of law is under great pressure in several EU Member States;]] [[Considering that the Multiannual Financial Framework has entered into force jointly with the Regulation on a general conditionality regime for the protection of the Union budget from 1 January 2021;]] [[Whereas Member States' recovery plans will be assessed by the Commission in the coming weeks and the Council will approve the assessment of the recovery and resilience plans by means of an implementing decision based on a proposal from the Commission;]] [[whereas the Hungarian Government recently submitted a recovery plan risking the use of EU Restoration Fund funds to increase government control over Hungarian universities through State aid and thereby restrict academic freedom;]] [[considers that the government should continue its efforts to ensure an effective link between the receipt of EU funds and respect for the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to co-evaluate the recovery plans of EU Member States on their compatibility with constitutional and democratic principles;]] [[calls on the government in the Council to object to implementing decisions on recovery plans contrary to these fundamental EU values,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35711-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u384	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u385	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u386	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I did not ask any substantive questions, because that had already been done in writing, and I have already received sufficient answers to those questions. I also thanked him for that, but that has led to some ambiguity, so I would like to say that this own resources decision does not introduce new taxes. It is only proposals that have an impact on the basis of the payment, otherwise. The Dutch Government is free to introduce, if this Parliament agrees with that, a plastic tax, yes or no. That is not necessary, on the basis of the decision that is before us. Then on the financial transaction tax. It's been on the agenda for 20 years. These are future ideas, and they remain future ideas for the VVD. That is what we are going to decide unanimously, should it ever come to that. But the last time a third country tried to impose a tax on us was Mr Alva's Tenth Penny. That was once and never again, and if that happens again, you know who won at the end of the ride. That's the Netherlands. I understand from the Minister that there is no Gesamtverluitung. If there is no payment, or if there is late payment, or if there is unwillingness to pay, it will be settled against the payments of the following years. That's a method. You could also say: if it is really unwillingness, then the subsidy flow stops to that country. Then I think you've had the same effect. We have already discussed the precedent. It is not there, but it is in the sense that the Ortoli facility went through the EIB and not directly through the Commission and the Bank. I still have a problem with the Minister's answer in the first term. He indicated that some Member States had indicated that they needed longer for the ratification procedure. They seem to have made that public to the Commission. Then I get a list of seven Member States; that list is known. These are seven Member States that have not yet ratified, but they are not the Member States that have informed the Commission of any longer than the apparent deadline of 1 June. I understand from the Minister that at least Poland is involved and that Mr Orbán has not yet given a shuffle. That is very unfortunate, because I see Mr Orbán in a position to say, when everything is ratified, yes, but I have not yet done so; I do not do so until this, that, sister and so on is settled. That brings me to my most important point. Perhaps we will vote on this own resources decision next week, but if the Minister has listened carefully to my first term, then he has heard that we very much want the notification to come to an end, namely after Mr Orbán has assured us that it will remain here. As I said, the reform package is a watery package. This should not be watered down further; certainly not under the blackmail of Mr Orbán. I find it disappointing that the Minister has not responded. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that. The Minister doesn't have to say anything. I also agree with him when he says, "Whoever doesn't say anything, agrees." I would like to make sure that we do not ratify until Mr Orbán and the one in power in Poland, and that we certainly do not notify, because that is quite a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u387	I have one more question. In the first term, I mentioned a passage from the government agreement of 2017. It states that the joint financing of Member States' debts is undesirable and that the EU should not become a debt community. My question was which parties brought it in. The Minister has responded to this. He was diplomatic in that. Mr. Van Ballekom, is that something your party found and still finds? Then what changed with this EMB?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u388	I haven't been there. I didn't write that coalition agreement. I am not bound by it in that sense either, but if it was not my party, that would disappoint me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u389	Okay, that's good news. Do you think that with this EMB there is no question of the EU taking a step towards a debt community?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u390	No, because I made it clear in my second term that there is no Gesamtverluitung, at least if I understand the Minister correctly. If I don't understand the Minister correctly, I hope he corrects that in his second term. Yes, then I have a big problem, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u391	I have listened carefully to Mr Van Ballekom. In the first period he made a number of conditions to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u392	I only asked one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u393	He mentioned three grounds...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u394	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u395	... which made it come true on one condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u396	Yeah, one condition, not three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u397	I'll take my question again. Mr Van Ballekom raised a number of issues... not conditions, but elements, on the basis of which he ultimately formulated one condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u398	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u399	But now I understand better that the real idea behind this is that Mr Van Ballekom believes that the Hungarian Prime Minister should not be in a position to make additional demands. I can follow that thought on my own. My question to Mr Van Ballekom is: is it the task of the First Chamber to determine the government's negotiating strategy on a subject on which decisions have long been taken in the European Council, and which has already been discussed in the European Parliament and in the House of Representatives, by imposing an additional condition relating to the negotiating strategy? Other than this, I can't understand him. Does Mr Van Ballekom consider that to be the task of this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u400	I think it's up to this Chamber to make a decision, which you know exactly what you're up to. If you don't know that, you don't make a decision. I think that's the job of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u401	I have no supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u402	I only have a clarification question following the first part of Mr Van Ballekom's speech. That bit was about not talking about taxes. Short and good, the word "plastic load" has fallen a few times. Mr Van Ballekom called it 'plastic taxation'. Isn't it a semantic discussion whether it's called a tax or a tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u403	No, because if there were a European tax, it would be levied directly by Europe. That is not the case. It is a tax, or a tax, whatever you want to call it, which is included in the basis of the payment. So if the Netherlands does not introduce that tax or tax, then the amount of plastic used will determine the final payment. This has therefore been introduced in order to ensure that Member States handle the consumption of plastic as efficiently as possible. We have asked questions about this, which have indeed been answered in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u404	I'm trying to understand. But then the words 'tax' and 'tax' start to get mixed up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u405	No, because I mean by a European tax, for example, the direct introduction of a financial transaction tax, which is collected by the European Commission. I think this is a European tax, or if the Dutch government is forced to introduce a financial transaction tax that we must then implement. That is a European tax, but that is not the case when you have the freedom to introduce something or not and when it only changes the basis of the payment. I also said in my first term that it could have been much easier. The easiest thing is simply a contribution based on the GNP, on which 80% is already based. So why not the last 20%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u406	Mr Van Ballekom just spoke in the debate on notification. In a small debate with Mr Backer, he defended his position with: you will not make a decision until you know everything. My question to Mr Van Ballekom is: does he know everything now to make a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u407	If Mr Orbán walks to the Court of Justice tomorrow and withdraws his trial, I have more confidence that it will go as it should. But if a government leader puts his colleagues on display in this way and goes to the Court of Justice within a week of reaching the political agreement, then I have my doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u408	But as it looks like, we are going to vote next Tuesday and we are going to make a decision. Does Mr Van Ballekom know everything to make that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u409	If the Minister guarantees us that we will be the last to notify, we will be voting in favour of the own resources decision next week. If not, we can also postpone the vote until Mr Orbán has given birth to his decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u410	Mr. Koole, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u411	If the Minister doesn't agree...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u412	As I told you this morning...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u413	Does the VVD vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u414	No, then we have a very intrusive discussion within the VVD Group. I have also said that I hope I can inform the President of this next week. You knew at 2:00 this afternoon that that's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u415	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u416	This intrusive discussion should lead to "for" or "against." In the European Parliament you can still abstain, but that is not possible here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u417	I'll give you that next week...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u418	This means that this debate must be based on a position of the VVD Group, of our group, of each group: 'for' or 'against'. I would now like to ask whether you think you have sufficient information to make that decision on Tuesday. You say you don't make a decision until you know everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u419	Mr Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u420	Once again, if I know that the lawsuit that's going on is dropped, I'm sure of everything. If Poland and Hungary have ratified by next week, then I know enough. If that is not the case, then we have the discussion as I indicated this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u421	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u422	Mr. Chairman. No wonder the cabinet formation is taking so long. Negotiation is a trade and apparently not all players master this trade. The EU's own resources decision, the seven-year plan we are discussing today, is an ultimate example of poor negotiation. Using the "corona crisis" alibi, the Netherlands agreed to finance the EU's megalomaniac Green Deal in an ill-thought-out negotiation session and a debt and transfer union has been established. Something that many Southern European Member States have long wanted has now been achieved. "Une premiere" celebrated last summer's common debt union by French President Macron. But the Netherlands also pays 9 billion a year for gifts to southern Europe in particular. In the worst case scenario, the Netherlands has a budget of EUR 27.4 billion, as I understood by the Minister, EUR 27.4 billion, on the hook for guarantees from other EU Member States. Because this cabinet was not able to draw up a plan for four fairly clear recommendations from the European Commission - the so-called 'country-specific recommendations' - I have just briefly summarised them in an interruption - we are now missing another EUR 6 billion and the Netherlands as the only Member State has not submitted a plan. I also asked the Minister: what is the plan? We have not yet received a very clear answer to that. I have heard this question from other groups. Pay for it, but don't take advantage of it. This cabinet throws money in the pot and plans a holiday with 27 friends, but stays home alone. It will pay, while the other 26 take out the flowers. Moreover, the Rutte Cabinets have made every effort to bring government debt down, while private debt, which was already very high in the Netherlands, especially in comparison with countries like Italy, has increased further as a result of the corona crisis. In many southern Member States this is exactly the other way around. We pointed this out earlier in a debate last year with the Minister on the COVID-19 crisis measures. We also tabled a motion on this at the time. We have kept it, but I would now like to retable this motion with a modified text. This concerns motion 35433, letter C of Cornelis. I'm reading the modified motion now. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has further increased the mismatch between the Dutch government debt as a percentage of GDP (which is among the lowest in the EU) and private Dutch debt as a percentage of GDP (which is among the highest in the EU);]] [[Whereas the proposed European Union own resources decision, which provides for a programme of EUR 750 billion (including 390 billion of grants), does not stop this development;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of establishing a form of debt transition in which private debt is more in line with that of other EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35711-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u423	35433, letter C. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u424	I note that you have withdrawn this motion and that you are replacing it with the motion that has just been read out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. As we also note with the VVD Group the necessary scepticism about this poor outcome of the negotiations of the Rutte cabinet from the statements of the VVD Group, I understand that there are differences of opinion and given the very important importance of this own resources decision, I would ask for a roll-call vote on this own resources decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u426	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I note that you have asked for a roll-call vote on this. We'll set it up as soon as it's possible. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Strien, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clarification. Unfortunately, however, I am not reassured by that, quite the contrary. In particular, I heard relativistic comments, such as 'we are not talking about Eurobonds', 'there is no precedent for this operation' and more of these answers, which do not increase our enthusiasm. Worse is that I have not heard any consideration of this outrageously large expenditure against the enormous problems that we face in this country and which need to be financed. That leads me to table the next motion. The: Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to approve a EUR 750 billion Recovery Fund for grants and loans to weak Member States;]] [[noting that the Netherlands should contribute EUR 43 billion to this fund, of which EUR 23 billion are grants to other Member States;]] [[whereas these billions can be spent much better in the Netherlands, as we are in the biggest crisis since the Second World War;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to this megalomaniac recovery fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35711-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his clear statements and the answers to our questions, but also those of several colleagues, who were extremely instructive for the whole of the debate. The way in which he discussed the issues in connection with each other also reflects the complexity of the issues and the scope of the recovery plan in particular. There are a number of colleagues, besides myself, who have asked the Minister about what the fund is not and should not be, namely, a prefix to the Eurobonds or a precedent for other things. I believe that the Minister has clearly explained what the fund is, namely a one-off, temporary and special solution for a very special time of the coronapandemic. This pandemic has been mentioned relatively little, but millions of deaths are now to be regretted in Europe. The Group also understands the Minister's attitude to submitting his own plan, depending on progress. I see the links to the cabinet formation. I note, however, that in Dutch politics the cabinet formation can also be a moment of acceleration. Anyway, we'll see how that timing finally works out. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, the country-specific recommendations were discussed. Four of them have been mentioned. This actually shows how complex and complex reforms are in our country. It is sometimes strange to see how railing and stereotyped negative other Member States are spoken of when they are unable to make choices. Well, we've got a few of our own to deal with. We may, of course, be critical, but I also think that we should keep it a little balanced. Mr. Chairman. What I don't understand is what Mr Van Ballekom has to say. I'm just saying it the way I see it. Firstly, the VVD Group intends to make this subject subject to a complaint from the AfD to the Bundesverfassungsgericht. Mr Van Ballekom then links the debate here and the notification to the position of the Member States of Hungary, Poland and Finland, where the right-wing True Finns have also held up that debate. Finally, he insists on being the last to wear the red lantern. I think it is completely inappropriate for this Chamber to carry the red lantern in a negotiating position. I am giving an unsolicited opinion to the VVD Group: choose your political friends. I would not want to make my own choice dependent on countries, Mr Orbán and others you mentioned. I wanted to make that point anyway. Our group, the D66 Group, will certainly not want to make the notification of a hopefully positive decision by this Chamber dependent on other Member States. Mr. Chairman. In an interrupting debate with the Minister, I referred to the Recovery Fund as 'an opportunity'. We have discussed all the risks and all the possible incantations, but it is an opportunity for reform in Europe. It's an opportunity that wasn't there before, because there was no leverage; there is now. That's a one-time thing. That's making the need a virtue. I think it will ultimately benefit all of us, including the Netherlands. The Netherlands also benefits from reforms in other countries. I'd say let's take that opportunity. I will advise my group to support the proposals without any reservations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u429	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and his staff for answering our questions. We look back on an important and intensive debate on the EMB. All things considered, my group welcomes the proportionality and subsidiarity of the proposal. This co-vid crisis calls for major steps, including financial steps, including those of the European Union. This positive approach is without prejudice to the need to pay close attention to the temporary nature of this new Recovery Fund and to the role of our national parliaments. The Minister has agreed to accept his responsibility here. This also applies to preventing us from slipping into eurobonds. The EMB must not set a precedent. The debate has made it clear that these issues are reasonably secured. My group will follow this process closely. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few brief comments. To be honest, I didn't think it was such a strong argument that the Netherlands didn't submit its own plan. I do not think that the cabinet's outgoing status is a convincing counter-argument. Our recovery priorities are actually quite clear, such as the labour market and the housing market. Other examples have also been mentioned. In other international cases, too, we do not actually use this reasoning. Today alone, we are taking a very far-reaching decision on EUR 750 billion. Apparently, a missionary cabinet can. Then there are the Eurobonds. It is good to hear that there is no paradigm shift towards Eurobonds. The Minister was right to say that national parliaments have their own responsibility in this matter. However, this raises the question of whether all Member States share this negative assessment of Eurobonds equally. That's what I'd like to hear. Then the intergenerational balance. I was a little disappointed by the Minister's response to that. I know his concern about the position of young people. The Minister considers this important, but in one way or another does not consider himself the appropriate actor to map those intergenerational effects. They're pretty important, aren't they? It's about young people, but it's also about the elderly. It is important to bring that to the fore. My simple question is whether he would be willing to submit this question to the CPB and the SCP. I'd love to hear that. They're good at it. They've been prepared for it. I think this is important. Thank you to the Minister for his positive appreciation of the call for a thorough evaluation of the Recovery Fund. It should clarify the status of the many questions that have been asked today and the concerns that have been shared. However, this raises the question of whether the Minister can outline his evaluation criteria. He indicated in the debate that he had answered that question, but that was not entirely up to me. Mr. Chairman. It is now a matter of helping the European economies through the crisis. The EMB will help with that. We are thinking in particular of the vulnerable southern Member States and the worrying position of young Europeans. We need to prevent a boomerang effect. In assessing the EMB, the Christian Union Group bases itself, as I indicated in the first term, on a combination of solidarity and sobriety. In the end, we will come to a positive balance. The European Union is also a community of values. This obliges mutual assistance in these draconian times. Values are not non-binding and values are not free. Mr. Chairman. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the own resources decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u431	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister. The key word for me in my second term will be "interpretation." Our President has sometimes set the example of an unnamed European Member State where the milk packets instead of 'opening here' were given 'opening home' to avoid misinterpretation. This is also the case here and there. I got a nice explanation from Mr. Van Ballekom about the words "tax" and "levy," but it's just how you interpret it. Or take the example that the Minister mentioned of another MP who has not yet been mentioned, who said today that there will probably be a cabinet in June. It's just how the interpretation goes down. Is that 2021 or 2022? In other words, we have a lot of questions of interpretation in this debate, including, for example, what Mrs Karimi quite rightly said in connection with my first term. She indicated: you actually only radiated the word "soberness," but you left the other values. She mentioned a very important value: what do you do, for example, with mercy? In the context of this debate, which deals with astronomical amounts, and in relation to values, it is very interesting to think about such a key word'mercifulness'. The question may be a bit philosophical, but I think it is an important question: how do you look at that? Is it merciful to prevent borrowing, or is it rather merciful to make borrowing possible? Is it then merciful to ask for the loan back? Is it merciful to have someone pay their debts or just to cancel their debts? Mercy always has a counterpart in Christian tradition, and that is justice. Mr. Chairman. Another point of interpretation was about the word "precedent," the precedent effect. The risk of this is well-reasoned by the Minister, you might say, on the assumption that the Netherlands does not want a precedent to arise. But a precedent arises precisely when something is actually happening. So there is a precedent and it comes down to the resistance of the Dutch government. Then I don't mean resistance in the financial sense. I could do that, too. Because when it comes to financial resilience, it's fair to face what we're heading for: 750 billion. The Minister has already indicated that 50 billion has been added since 2018. If we charge that to 2027, it's going to be about 900 billion. My question to the Minister is: is that pass-through correct? 'Cause I haven't even counted interest on interest yet. My group believes that this goes a long way, including with regard to the risks to non-paying countries. Mr. Chairman. My final point of interpretation is about something the Minister said at some point. I was rather dismayed, I must say, when the Minister told one of his colleagues that he would not have much else to do next weekend: let us read back the Acts. That gave me a bit of a shock, until I came to the conclusion that the Minister was undoubtedly referring to the Acts of the Apostles. Then I thought, "Well, then I'd advise you to take Chapter 2, and he'd have the Pentecostal Gospel for the weekend ahead." Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u433	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u434	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the many questions that have been asked and the pleasant debate we have had. I have a few comments and a few questions. The first point is that I would also like to thank the Minister for the timeline he has given on all these charges or taxes, or whatever they are called. That gives us some insight into what awaits us all. My second comment concerns what he said in a small debate with Mr Kox. He said that he found it striking that Mr. Kox also looked at the Anglo-Saxon world. I saw Mr. Kox shaking his head too. I fully agree with Mr Kox that this can be done. I would like to point out to Mr Hoekstra that Labor Day was really invented in Chicago. So don't say people on the left side of the spectrum can't look at the United States or the Anglo-Saxon world, too. On the contrary, I'd almost say. One final comment before I start asking my questions is about the rule of law mechanism. I have also said in my contribution that it is good that it is there, but that it should have had a broader effect. The Minister has indicated that this is indeed not the case. It does not include the fact that lhbti or homo-free zones are declared in Poland. The mechanism doesn't make any sense. Unfortunately, I'd like to say. However, I was very pleased with the Minister's statement that he thinks that such areas should be called 'less than'. I think I can only agree with that. I have three more questions and one final comment. The first question is about that notification. We have just discussed it, also in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Ballekom. Mr Van Ballekom just said that this notification must come to an end, so after all the other countries. So even if Orbán or others slow it down even further, it has to come to the very end. I ask the Minister whether he agrees that the notification by the Netherlands will take place entirely at the end of the process, i.e. after all the other countries. Or can it be done as soon as possible after approval by the Dutch Parliament? My second question concerns the RRF package. We've talked about that a lot. They say not during formation. But the Minister also sees: if it takes too long, it does. Suppose the formation would indeed last until 1 June 2022, I repeat after Mr Schalk. Then that plan must have been submitted by now, mustn't it? May I conclude from this that at the latest a plan will be submitted by the Netherlands in the autumn at the latest? And in order to stimulate the minister, I co-signed the GroenLinks motion. My third question. Today, Commissioner Gentiloni said that there will be a European approach from letterbox companies. Does the Minister agree with that? Will he at least ensure that this approach is not weakened by the European Commission's proposal? And does this also fit within a Dutch proposal of the RRF, or is it completely out of the question? Finally. Our group welcomes this particular own resources decision, with the RRF included. It's coming in the middle of the corona crisis, still. It is based on solidarity and European values. A lot of things can be improved. It's not ideal. I said: my group is not in favour. But because it is based on solidarity and those values, I will be very happy to advise my group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u435	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Kox. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u436	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers to our questions, as well as for his remarks that he would like to present his career as a reincarnated Jan van Veen Candlelight at a later stage in his career and end his career as a senator and his life here in this Chamber at the age of 100. That's really nice to hear. Mr. Chairman. It is important to repeat what I said in my first term, namely that organized internationalism in times of a pandemic is really a better and more effective answer than short-sighted nationalism, block formation and risky geopolitics. I say this in order to make it clear that it is not a question for the Socialist Group of the Party of European Socialists whether help should be provided, particularly for the countries most affected, but that the question is how to help. What we need to help is an issue of international solidarity. How to help is to use a matter of your mind well. Then I notice that the government is now an enthusiastic advocate of a plan that neither the Minister of Finance nor the Prime Minister himself has devised. It is clear that the Netherlands is now following what has been conceived in other capitals as a solution. The Minister, who is open-minded, has now thought that under the circumstances this also fits in with his thinking. In our view, the choice to finance the recovery fund through loans on the capital market and then to split it up not only into grants but also into loans to be repaid and which weigh on the Member States, remains too one-sided. I've asked the Minister about other options. Why hasn't anyone thought about debt restructuring? That is what we were thinking about in the previous crisis. Only then it was linked to "austerity politics," but that could have been done now. I asked for monetary financing. Indeed, over the ocean and across the North Sea you can sometimes see things that you think might be worth it, such as Labor Day, a National Health Service and the fact that the American President is now much more progressive than the European Union by saying that patents should be released in times of a pandemic. In short, we believe that the European Union has quickly joined something that is popular in some capitals. Monetary financing is prohibited. Borrowing for spending is also prohibited. It's just how you deal with it. Mr. Chairman. If this fund is to be established, a legitimate question, including from this Chamber, is what we will do with the drawing rights of the Netherlands. I think that's totally correct. Several groups have spoken about this. There is still a lot to do in the areas of care and living. I shall therefore take a positive look at the motion by GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I shall continue to think about what Mr Van Ballekom has said, because there is something in it, I shall say: should we say yes now when other countries may still be manipulative? We will see that, but I am also waiting for the consultation in the bosom of the VVD. Which will be our final judgment, I'll tell you next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u437	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u438	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for the clear answer. I am glad that he did not say 'once again' with regard to the recovery instrument. He's giving it a fair chance. He looks at the results that will be achieved with this fund, which is explicitly linked to a very serious crisis, and he says: if this leads to reforms and investments in exchange for the financial investment, then it is fully worth it. I would add that it is also worth further considering whether we should not use such a recovery instrument in a structural way. It is clear that the European Union's financing needs are only increasing. That is why it is not a coincidence that the proposals for new taxes are fluttering across each other. We should not close our eyes to that. It doesn't necessarily have to be a threat, but we need to think carefully about the criteria within which we will accept these possible new taxes. I have said that the principle of subsidiarity is very important in this respect, but also what is sometimes summed up as the principle of no taxation without representation. If you look into the origins of that principle, you will find that in the beginning Mr Van Ballekom called it the Tenth Penny of Alva.... had a very different meaning. Then it was more like "no taxation without consent." There was a small elite group that had the power to accept or not accept the king's or emperor's request. This is quite different from demanding that citizens in a country represented in a parliament decide on taxes. This is also illustrated, because once the Spanish were defeated, a tax was introduced that was much more serious than the Tenth Penny of Alva, but that was accepted by the elite. I am very curious how the Minister sees the function of Article 116. Democracy is important today. The question is whether you should not think about the possibility of a qualified majority when it comes to taxation. On the other hand, it is also important to prevent too easily the views of minorities being rolled over. Article 116 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is a very important provision in this respect. Only, it has never entered into force. But I would like to give you a note that the European Union is really thinking about doing this because of this greater need for funding. Then it is important that we have thought very carefully in advance. So I would once again like to ask the Minister's position on this. Finally. I will advise my group to approve both the ratification and notification of this own resources decision and not to make it dependent on the position of a country such as Hungary. As much as I understand Mr Van Ballekom's thinking and concern, I think that Mr Orbán is only pleased that he is now being confirmed in his position. We've got to get behind this. We've got to get behind this. Mr. Van Ballekom, you yourself said that you are behind that own resources decision. We must make that clear to the outside world. It also does justice to the efforts of the Prime Minister and the Government to achieve this recovery tool. Then we must be able to accept that before 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u439	Thank you, Mr. Essers. That puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u440	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u441	I fully agree that if we vote here on the own resources decision, the government will then be able to inform the President of the Council the following day that there is no problem with the substance of the decision. But as Mr Backer accused the VVD of choosing the wrong friends, such as Mr Orbán, the Polish Prime Minister and the AfD, I think it is the other way around. We don't want to be blackmailed by people who aren't our friends anymore. That's the point. So we can say tomorrow or next week at the end of the day: President-in-Office of the European Council, the Netherlands has no problem with the own resources decision, but the substance is neat, but we want to wait for notification until every blackmail instrument is off the table, because we do not surrender to that. Because indeed, Mr. Backer, they are not our friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u442	But what is your question to Mr. Essers, Mr. Van Ballekom? 'Cause you're interrupting Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u443	I would like to add that to comments: the difference between notification and ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u444	Ah, this was your third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u445	Yeah, this was my third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u446	I interpret it as a question. There's always the possibility of blackmail. You said the same thing yourself. So whether we notify or not, we still depend on the whims of such a country; that's the way the system is. You can't avoid that. I understand your reasoning and I share your concern, but for me, you are choosing the wrong way to reconcile that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u447	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Finally, Mr Van Rooijen has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. Would you like to put on a mask as you move through the room? Thank you. I call Mr Van Rooijen. That remark was not yours, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u448	Okay, I figured... Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm actually waiting for one answer to the question I asked at the end. In the case of future debts in a large number of European countries, we believe that too much is hoped for to grow out of the problems. I asked the Minister whether he also felt that the suspension of budgetary rules should be brought to an end as soon as possible and that new proposals should be made. For us, then, it is crucial that new rules promote debt reduction at a reasonable pace. Let me repeat that question. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the VVD Group, in line with what I said in the first term, also believes that the European budget should be financed primarily, if not entirely, on the basis of gross national product. That is indeed the case now for 80%. This actually means that European taxes do not fit in and of course Eurobonds are even less. I am also pleased, yes, as you can see, with what the VVD Group said about the financial transaction tax, the position was, is and remains no. That goes for us, too. The financial transaction tax is foretellable, but it has a long past and no future. In this context, I think it is important that the Dutch veto should remain. In this context, I am a little surprised by Mr Essers' remark that Article 116 on qualified majority voting still needs to be reviewed. I believe that we should have the right of veto in the Netherlands. I also wonder what the Minister actually meant, although I think I understand, when he said: in the financial transaction tax, you can also think of an intermediate solution. The proceeds of Brussels do not remain in Brussels, but flow back to the countries that have contributed most to it, such as the Netherlands. I noted that I am not very happy about it either because it would not help pension funds. Finally, Mr President. In the House of Representatives, you said to the VVD Group that you replied to Mrs De Vries 'that the question 'approval here and then notification' should be handled prudently and wisely; I have just recalled that. I think that is a wise wording. I would like to give it to the Minister, because we share the concerns expressed here by the VVD Group and also by Mr Kox of the SP: we must be careful not to enter into a phase of negotiation and not to stick to 'a deal is a deal'. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u449	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? No? Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u450	I will reopen the sitting and give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u451	Mr President, thank you. I have a few more questions from the first term I want to answer. There are a few things that I would like to provide briefly with a qualification and then I come to the motions. I'll start with Mr. Ester. Thank you for the various compliments he made to the cabinet or me. He thought I was a little short on the intergenerational balance and sought further enrichment for that. The only point I have tried to be realistic in is my ability to add another intergenerational key to the plan at this stage of the process. I find his suggestion to investigate it further and to map it a very good one. However, I propose a different route. I suggest to him that I contribute to one of the euro groups and I will ask the Commission to monitor that. My suspicion is that Mr Ester really wants to know what is going on in the various Member States. I can do it all for the planning agency, but I think that is more difficult than it is for the Commission. I see him nodding, so he seems to be able to agree with that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Essers rightly asked at the end of the first term about his question about Article 116 and the Treaty of operation. I'm gonna have to do this very precisely. The Commission has indeed indicated that it is considering whether Article 116 of the Treaty of Functioning can also be applied in relation to tax systems. This may be the case if the national legislation of a Member State does not comply with the conditions of competition and thus distorts the internal market. At present it is not clear whether and if so, when the Commission will present an analysis or proposal on this matter. I think it is prudent to say that I hope that Mr Essers will be able to follow that view when the Commission's position is known on the precise role of Article 116 of the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union and to what extent it is going to play in the field of taxation. Because then I have to relate myself to those views of the Commission. Until then, I find it premature. With his permission, I'll wait for that. As soon as I have that information, I will share it with the Chamber and then I will take my position. If he's okay with that, I'd like to meet that double whammy with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u452	The Minister is consistent in his answer to my questions. I still don't have his opinion, but I understand the prudence very well. It also gives me some insight into how he stands on the other side. If he had fully embraced Rule 116, he would have said so a long time ago. Or am I wrong now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u453	Then we come to the exegesis of what the cabinet might have meant. An exegesis must always be left to others, is my conclusion. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole was there as the chickens, because Mr Gentiloni has said a few words about the letterbox companies today and earlier in the last few days. Today, the communication on the subject has been published so I must say. What I would like to do is that, as usual, the government informs the Chamber via a BNC sheet, because that means that there will simply be an official analysis of the document. I suspect that this is primarily done by Finance, in conjunction with the other financial and economic departments. Then it goes to the entire cabinet and then to the Chamber. I think that's the right route. If Mr Koole agrees, I would be delighted to do so. I'll make sure the BNC chip gets back to the First Chamber. Then Mr Van Ballekom asked how we should proceed with ratification. It is a good thing that we should first perhaps mention exactly how this process works, so that we at least have that in focus. Then I will say something about the timeline and then about the way in which I think we should move forward. For the record, that notification is a notification. That is a letter from the PV to the depositary, which is in turn the SG of the Council, which states that the national approval process in a Member State, in this case in the Netherlands, has been completed. With notification there is ratification. It is de facto the end of the ratification process. That's all steps ahead of that. This is the first part of the answer, at least of the route that should lead to the answer. What steps do they take in advance? Vote in the First Chamber, the signing by the King, the preparation of the publication of the Approval Act JenV in the Official Journal, the publication in the Official Journal, the entry into force of the Approval Act and then the letter of the PV. That's the trajectory we have to go through. What trial did the cabinet foresee? Tuesday 25 May the vote, Wednesday 26 May the signing by the King, Thursday 27 May the preparation of the publication, Friday 28 May the publication in the Official Journal, Saturday 29 May the entry into force of the Approval Act and Monday 31 May the letter from the PV for notification. That is the process as the cabinet sees it. Also because the Netherlands, the Prime Minister and I have also indicated earlier in the dialogue that, of course, the First Chamber is concerned about this, but that in itself we think it is logical to follow the path of ratification afterwards. That is, moreover, the Prime Minister has once again urged me to do so, because even during the period when we were already decommissioned and busy with the elections, we wanted to start that debate with the House of Representatives. If you had looked at short-term politics, you could have said that I would spare myself in the pre-election phase. But we thought it logical to do so, also because that demand was there from Europe. Then the First Chamber said: we want to take more time for it. As a cabinet, we simply have to accept that. But we think this is a logical process in itself. The fundamental point of Mr Van Ballekom is of course: be careful that you do not, because you do it faster, allow yourself to be messed up in something that makes you check afterwards and someone else, by signing last, is still failing you in the second instance. In itself, I very much agree that you should always watch over process tricks, which could lead to a Member State messing around somewhere. At the same time, the cabinet does not believe that this is the case. After all, if a Member State called Mr van Ballekom Hungary "wait a long time for this to be introduced," there is no treaty. This means that no euro can be spent on it. This means that Hungary itself, as one of the major recipients, cannot make use of it. In the end, it is decided that this treaty will not be accepted, which would surprise me very much, then the whole thing is broken. Then we're gonna start over. And then my assessment is "but that too would still be described in the stars" "that the Netherlands would not be the only Member State to say: at least that means that in a second round we will not be rewarding the person who trained the whole process for that behavior as well. That combination means that I myself, listening carefully to Mr Van Ballekom and weighing everything up in the cabinet too, have had discussions about this. If the Chamber were to please it, we would be voting next week. We are presenting the proposal here and the cabinet hopes that the Chamber will be able to accept it. Then it doesn't matter in half a day. I have just tried to put it into words that the route will take a few days before it is complete. Is something dramatic going wrong when you do it on June 1st? No, of course not. At the same time, I think it is good faith witnesses to conclude the process, like many like-minded countries, without deliberate delay. That is the conclusion I come to as a member of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u454	I welcome the overview of the timetable given by the Minister and all the steps mentioned: 31 May, perhaps 1 June. This results in the letter from the Permanent Representative to the Council. My question to the Minister is this: is this scheme completely independent of what is happening in other Member States with these processes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u455	Yes. Again, these are the intentions. It's all ice and reverend. If something should happen, the Minister of Justice is unwell and he is not able to sign that afternoon, but only the next morning will the whole journey take a day. I think 31 May should be feasible. I do not think that the world will end if it becomes 1, 2 or 3 June, but I also see no added value to steer on additional delay of a few days. If the Chamber were to unite with it next Tuesday, we are going to have the ball do the work along this line. I am not going to look at what is happening in the other six Member States with half an eye in all normal variants, which are now being overlooked. When the world ends, you always have a different debate, but in normal circumstances there is no kind of lurking towards the neighbors from the Dutch cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u456	I welcome this answer, because I conclude that it does not depend on the behaviour of other Member States in this process. And if the Minister of Justice gets sick, it does matter a day, but those are internal events. Is that a correct conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u457	No, the cabinet's intention is that, next week, the Chamber would unite with it, this process will end. In doing so, we would respect the Commission's ambition and request to the Member States to do it before 1 June and not to play consciously on postponement. I would also like to say to Mr Van Ballekom that I think that this is important for the balance sheet in the debate, and that I understand that Mr Van Ballekom is saying: do not be naive about what is happening in the international arena. A priori, I very much agree with that. Especially when you see how this went before, especially with the two Member States which first complicated the negotiations and then walked to the European Court, I understand that he says: to what extent does everyone now do this in good faith? I understand. Only when I look at the matter in a material way do I not fear that, by doing it now, I am maneuvering myself, the cabinet, the Netherlands in a less advantageous position than if I were waiting for Member State X to do so on 15 June and I say on 16 June: now we have done it too. I don't see any upside of that strategy. I understand Van Ballekom's basic attitude very well, but I think that this should be the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u458	I can follow the Minister's reasoning, but experience has shown that the Parliamentary word in Brussels is sacred. I would then like to know from the Dutch Government what it intends to do if we have completed the ratification decision and the notification here and are told in the Hungarian Parliament: that own resources decision is fine, we would like to ratify it, but we still have some problems with the rule of law regulation. And the government also has some problems with that rule of law regulation, which went to the Court of Justice. So we want to ratify it, but then there are some passages that need to be changed. So what's our bet? We will then lose our power to sign that seven-year own resources decision again in seven years' time. What is the advantage of ratifying and notifying on 31 May compared to notifying on 14 June? It can only come into effect when the last Member State brings in the notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u459	Let me start with that last point. I cannot argue that there is a great material advantage of 1 June compared to 2 June, 2 June compared to 3 June and so on. Moreover, I do not know at all what speed the remaining Member States will do so. Mr Van Ballekom is right that you will arrive at the first of the next month anyway. It's kind of like signing a lease. Then you are always stuck with the first of the next month, sometimes with an extra month. So it is true that that does not matter, but there is also something like the good relations you have with each other and with the Commission. We know that Finland, Germany, France too, all these Member States have done this. Of course, we also weigh down whether there is a catch somewhere and we are in a moment confronted with something we would not want. So you bet those countries will also have looked at power politics. Then I come to the conclusion that, unlike the matters relating to good faith negotiations, with commitments to the Commission, there are no major material disadvantages for the Netherlands to wait. But there aren't any of those benefits either. Considering everything, I think it's best to do it. So that is my request, on behalf of the cabinet, to the Chamber. In reply to Mr Van Ballekom's first question, we have a major problem with each other. Then we have a big problem. This cannot be solved otherwise than in the text. If you want to resolve it in the text, you have to go to a new treaty and it will be submitted for ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u460	No, because the rule of law is not a treaty. It's not being presented. It won't be ratified. It is simply negotiated by a qualified majority. If I'm in a difficult position, Minister, I'd rather have another stick in my hand that would allow me to move people to normal behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u461	I'm trying to tell you what the pluses and minuses are. I also point out, because I think that is just fair to the Chamber, that as a member of the cabinet, I really prefer to do this in a proper way and therefore try to complete it by 1 June. I also indicated that the world would not forget if you waited a few days, but I just don't see very well what you're getting out of it. I do think so, but that is more the political side of the matter as a Member State, and then another Member State where Mr Van Ballekom is rightly critical of the substance of the matter, namely the importance of the rule of law, but also the behaviour earlier in the negotiations, would say that they have slept on it again for a couple of nights and come to the conclusion on 20 June that they do not want to do so, domestically speaking, breaks the hell out. That will not only be in the Dutch cabinet. That's gonna be in a lot of other places, too. It will soon become a machover if you say exactly what you will get out of your arsenal, but I don't use that domestic term for nothing and you're not going to get it alone in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u462	Finally, Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u463	We can also record our goodwill in a letter to the Commission. That's no problem at all. We can say that we have no problem with the content of the own resources decision, but we do have a problem with timing. We're a reliable partner. If we write that in a letter as a government, everyone can assume that there is no problem. I think that is the surest way to avoid running the risk of having to renegotiate something that is already rather weak in its content in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u464	I would like to join Mr Van Ballekom. The Minister is always talking about "negotiating in good faith" and "we are a decent party," but you are dealing with 26 others, some of whom have very different negotiating tactics. I have also seen it happen with a state-owned company from southern Europe that was ready to sign with the lawyer for a billion-dollar deal, but it was simply said that we still have 20 million to sign off, otherwise we will not sign off. In other countries they have other mores. It doesn't have any downside to wait for this. In fact, that's very wise. I don't think the hell breaks out in the Netherlands if this deal doesn't go through. I think a lot of people in the Netherlands say: hallelujah, we're done with this unprofitable deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u465	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u466	Well, I'm falling for Mr. Van Ballekom...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u467	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u468	What's the advantage of not waiting? Because the Minister can't explain that to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u469	I think I have just answered Mr Van Ballekom's question in three instances and in various layers. I would also like to refer to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u470	But that wasn't convincing, because the minister says we're negotiating in good faith. I found Mr Van Ballekom's option to confirm this in a letter and, nevertheless, to wait, a very ingenious, straightforward approach. What's against that? That has only advantages and no disadvantages. What's against it? 'Cause I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u471	I have answered that, but I have often noticed in these debates that no one seems to know how to negotiate as much as Mr Otten. So at the moment that book about how it should appear, I'd like to have a signed copy, because then we'll learn how to really do it. But I don't see a big downside and that's exactly why I think this is justifiable. If it were to involve a great deal of material importance, I would immediately agree with Mr Van Ballekom. But I don't see it. I don't see what you could be messed up in, given that the treaty would collapse like a plum pudding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u472	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u473	We can talk about negotiating strategies ad homily, about who can do better or not, but that it can do better than this result is not so difficult in itself. Negotiation is also a matter of mainly proactive advance. You have seen and experienced this at KLM, but also in this case. I would nevertheless advise the Minister to think ahead about what is happening at the time of this notification, because that is where the final negotiation is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u474	As I said, Mr Otten really knows much better how to do this, and we all benefit from that, even in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u475	I had already quoted in the first term from the commitment to the House of Representatives, or at least the Minister's reply to Mrs De Vries: 'What if we deal with this in a prudent and sensible way, heard Mrs De Vries and wider the Chamber? I see her nodding, Mr President, so I will go this way together with colleagues in the cabinet." Is the suggestion that Mr Van Ballekom makes here not going down that road? What is wrong with making it clear, even if it is said yes next week, that the notification with which everything becomes final is still waiting in a prudent way? That's not just to see what Hungary and/or Poland are doing, because there are seven more. What's against it? I understand the minister, June 1st or July 1st, in rental contracts and so on, but this is not a rental contract. It could be June 15th, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u476	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u477	Is June 1st a fatal date? So it's gonna be July 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u478	Yes, it is. And again, I didn't want to argue here that this is a big deal. The cabinet's proposal as it is on the table...Of course, the cabinet has the conviction that this plan, weighing everything, is sensible, and with it also the wish and hope that the First Chamber would be able to agree with this plan. Then, as a cabinet, we say: all things considered, we think that it is wise to follow the normal route as I have just outlined. Why? Of course, something has happened again over the last few months. What some expected from the Bundesverfassungsgericht... did not come up with anything that made this ship water. That was something that, I think, was also the inspiration for Mrs De Vries in the debate which Mr Van Rooijen just referred to. That makes me, weighing everything, think this is wise. But I agree with everyone who says that the world probably won't end if you tie to it for a few more days. On one point, I must disagree with Mr Van Rooijen. It's not like you can choose whether it's June 1, June 15, July 1 or July 15. No, apparently the deal is that it starts on the first day of the next month. So it's gonna be July 1st or even August 1st. I'm sure there'll be people who say, "What difference does it make if you wait 12 or 13 months?" At the same time, I think that if you agreed to this a month or ten ago, you have been delayed so much that I don't think it's crazy to make unnecessary delays yourself. I would then myself like to understand from the Chamber what the material importance of further delay would be. If a Member State does not ratify, there is no treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u479	I understand the Minister's approach. That's not what I'm talking about. I am a little concerned about the image that Mrs De Vries got from your answer. I was thinking: the VVD Group in the House of Representatives thinks that this is a sensible, prudent way, which the cabinet would also like to follow. It was unclear what exactly is prudent and sensible, but that will tell time, I would say. What's against letting go of the date of June 1st? What is happening here is simply an autopilot: after ratification, it will be published in the Official Journal within a few days and the letter will be sent to Brussels. So that is not a prudent and sensible way, which is somewhat different from the formal route that always applies. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u480	Two things. It's gonna be a bit of a repeat of moves after all. I do it on the basis of my memory, but Mr Van Rooijen has the minutes in front of him. I believe that Mrs De Vries did not say that we want to be the very last. I believe that Mrs De Vries has said: I do not think we need to be at the front; I prefer to see how the field develops and then I prefer to be at the last cohort. Or they were similar words. So that's different, because we're now in that last cohort. That's one. Two. In that debate, and at least in public opinion, it was at that time that a case had been brought before the Bundesverfassungsgericht. This, in the opinion of the Dutch cabinet, has not led to the whole thing being put on strong water. Then you have the balance as I have outlined it now. Once again, I really agree with Mr Van Ballekom a priori that if there was a potential material interest with a small chance of it happening, but with great consequences, it is always wise to say: why not take some extra time? At the same time, I see how this is developing. We ended up in the last cohort. It is not the case that the Commission says: the world will perish if you do not make it to 1 June. We are also looking at Member States such as the Netherlands. Is there any objection to trying? I honestly do not see what we gain from trying to make 31 May, 1 June, 10 June, 20 June or 30 June. Frankly, I don't see what we're gonna gain from that. If the Chamber later says 'it is excluded from us', I would almost say that the cabinet will not fall for it, but we do not have that possibility at all. That's about how the cards are. I'll paint that with all the nuance. Considering everything, I think it's wise to walk the normal route. But if Mr Van Ballekom and Mr Otten and Mr Van Rooijen want to take a different route to the summit on his back, then we will have to relate to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u481	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u482	My group is not there. What progressive insight is there between the debate in the Lower House in mid-February and now, three months later? The cabinet said at the time: Mrs De Vries, there is indeed ratification and then, as a separate act, notification. That is not automaticism, so within a few days through the appropriate paths, but that is done prudently and wisely. That's what I read from the answer. I read that the commitment was that we would think again about how that would go. And now I hear the Minister literally say: no, we are going to follow the normal process three months later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u483	Let me begin with a quote from former President Cameron to Mr Van Rooijen: I admire his tenacity. That he wants to drill this out at a quarter to eleven, at his venerable age... I wish many. But I just wanted to argue the nuance in the conversation with Mrs De Vries, which took place in February. In that she does not ask to be the very last. I saw the last time I said that Mr Van Rooijen supported that with head blows. She said, "Don't be the first." She said, "Look how the process is developing." There were then concerns and questions about the Bundesverfassungsgericht. So the discussion was in that color bath. At the same time, I also think that I would be unfair to the nuance of the debate if I pretended that hell and damnation would break loose if we were two days later. Just, I don't see the upside. And I know exactly what the next discussion will be like. It will be as follows. There has been one and has also ratified, but not yet. And one might have belonged to those few hundred thousand viewers of the Dutch debate, and they found out that the Netherlands is postponing. Perhaps one of the Member States will say: you know what we are going to do, we are going right after the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u484	I feel like we're really repeating ourselves now. Mr. Van der Linden, do you have another question that hasn't been asked yet? Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u485	Yeah, I do. Following the interruption debate between the Minister and Mr Van Ballekom, I would like to ask for some clarification. The Minister indicated the following should this situation arise with the Member State which treats it last. The example of Hungary was mentioned. Suppose the parliament there, dual as one is, says: no, we do not like that passage in the treaty and we have to get it out. I heard the Minister say that the whole circus will then start again and that such a treaty, in a modified form, will pass here again, in the Chamber, in the Senate and so on. Mr Van Ballekom said that this was not the case, but that it would then be negotiated. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u486	I don't see that. A treaty is ratified when it is ratified by all the Member States. Therefore, if one Member State does not ratify, there is no treaty. It's as simple as that. Here's what I just said. Suppose a Member State makes an effort at this stage to get some extras out of it, and say that that Member State has, moreover, explicitly put its mark on the negotiation process, not only in a positive way, initially, but then through the corridor to the Court. It seems to me very undesirable and frankly also impossible to believe that if all this has happened, the Netherlands and Denmark and Finland and Germany and France will all say: we are going to reward that again, so we are taking a few ounces off the rule of law. That is true in any case where it concerns the Dutch cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u487	That too is a repetition of something we have heard before. Mr. Van der Linden, do you have another point you'd like to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u488	Yes. My question was whether it would come here, in the Lower House or in the Upper House. Suppose such a situation occurs, or hold on or negotiate, does it come through here again? Or is it concluded for this house before this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u489	A brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u490	At the moment when the Chamber comes to power and it is ratified in all the Member States, this treaty is a fact. If each of the Member States ratifies it, it has the power of law and the power of law. At the moment when a new treaty would replace it, even if it is only changed on two lines, the normal process will simply take place again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u491	Mr. Van Ballekom, do you have a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u492	Yeah, that's right. But the own resources decision is a treaty and the rule of law is not a treaty. That's a regulation. The Minister keeps returning to the Bundesverfassungsgericht. I don't have a problem with that. It is not the German Government which submitted it to the Bundesverfassungsgericht. That is the big difference with the rule of law, because that is what the government has done. So that's too bad faith. In the other case, just a citizen did. But I have a compromise solution to allow the vote to continue next week, as far as I am concerned. Can you not now ask your colleagues from Poland and Hungary why the ratification process in these countries is so slow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u493	However, about the Bundesverfassungsgericht: I used this purely to describe to Mr Van Rooijen what colour bath it was in. I also agree with Mr Van Ballekom that you have to relate to that, but that is different from what a state actor does as a negotiator in that process. The Commission has carried out this inventory. Last week I spoke with Mr Hahn, one of the Commissioners, about where we stood as the Netherlands. Then I asked him: what do you think is going on in those other Member States? Then he gave me insight into it. At that time the debate had yet to take place in Finland. So I think that's the only thing that's changed since then. His perception was that it was going to be about the rate I sketched when I read that list. He has not appointed in all the finesses which party has what view in which parliament, but I think we have it with us. That also gives me sufficient insight into how the cards are. So again, it's not a big deal, but I think it makes more sense to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u494	Mr Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u495	Then I wonder: why don't you ask your colleagues? Why do you ask a Commissioner at the Commission? You can ask your colleagues: gosh, I note that you have not yet ratified, what is the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u496	I can ask you that, but I did not call the Commissioner to ask what is going on with the other Member States, because the cabinet, just to stay in that metaphor, had already ended up in the last cohort that Mrs De Vries had asked us for in the House of Representatives. I see that Mr Otten is almost getting excited. It was a relevant debate, because Mrs De Vries asked that as a member of the House of Representatives and part of the discussion that Van Rooijen rightly refers to here as far as I am concerned. That's what we said. That was also the way it went. Then I get a call from a Commissioner who asks: can you give an assessment of how this works in the Dutch Parliament? I said: the debate is scheduled for this Tuesday, the following week the vote will take place and the Dutch cabinet will see no obstacles in itself. I then said that I thought that the problem would be with other Member States earlier and that we could probably make it to 1 June. No guarantees, but probably could make it. I have once again emphasised, as I emphasise to every Commissioner and every colleague, that this combination of'reform and then money' is right up for the Netherlands, because it is also mentally linked to the title of the whole thing. I would like to give the following undertaking to Mr Van Ballekom. I will see some of my colleagues in Portugal next Friday at the informal Eurogroup or Ecofin. That's where I'd like to name that one more time. My suspicion is, moreover, that the Commission is going to say this once again: get on with it. But I honestly find the added value of such a conversation to delay for another few days in that ratification, which notification... I think that's a little wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u497	Mr Van Ballekom, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u498	Then we'll disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u499	That can't be ruled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u500	Mr. Schalk, do you have a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u501	Maybe a point of order. We are talking for a very long time about how things might be, but I do feel that the Chamber should know very well in a moment whether the Minister will start immediately after a vote on that route, or whether an intermediate phase will be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u502	I think that's crystal clear. As a cabinet, we intend, at the time of the adoption of this law by the First Chamber, to complete the normal course and not to add additional delays to it. If that were the case, I would not hope that, for that reason, the Chamber would decide to postpone the vote, or to buy another time in the procedure, then we as a cabinet have to relate to it. I will not be on the Council of Ministers on Friday, but I will have to inform the cabinet that groups in the First Chamber are concerned about this. I will have to say that in January and February we had discussions with the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives about 'please hurry up', but that there is a further delay in the First Chamber. I will then have to say that I find that all this is very unfortunate, but that there is no dramatic error with an extra two days, and that I have also shared it with the Chamber. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u503	I think that's clear language. The minister assumes his own course. If it's different, we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u504	I think it's the other way around. The cabinet is here to defend the bill. The Chamber is about its own agenda. The Chamber is about the moment of vote. I have tried to put into words why, weighing everything up again, it is not a matter of course, in my firm belief, that something does not go wrong when you would take the next week and then set you in motion. So that's the cabinet's commitment. If the Chamber were to say 'we think that is an insurmountable bump and so we are not going to vote', or 'we want a motion that has postponed ratification', the cabinet would have to relate to that. For example, we should look at whether or not we are going to carry out this motion as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u505	Thank you for letting me make a point of order. It's obvious to me. The Minister tells us which route he's going. If things are different, the Chamber will have its means to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u506	Mr Van Rooijen, another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u507	A quick question. If the Minister is prepared to talk to colleagues from the remaining countries in particular on Friday, will he be prepared to inform the Chamber about this before the vote next week? He is prepared to discuss this in informal consultations if necessary. If that makes any sense in any way, is he prepared to ensure that we get that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u508	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. Only, what I find vulnerable to that figure... Let's agree I'll write that letter anyway. I have no objection to that. What I find vulnerable is that I do not want to become the owner, certainly not on the basis of a relatively short conversation, of information that I get during an informal Ecofin and eurogroup that deals with other issues and where colleagues make an assessment of how they expect it to go in their parliaments. These are processes that they are not entirely in control of either. Suppose it had been the other way around, that I had been called yesterday by one of the other colleagues and that he had said: how do you think it will go in your parliament? I would have said that I will be there tomorrow and my expectation is that it will be voted on next week. Then I probably would have had this overview and I would have said: well, ice and again serving it will probably be 31 May and if it isn't, it will be one or two days later. What would my answer have been? What if the First Chamber were to say, "We all find it... It feels too much for us as the speed of light and we want to slow down." Then it's up to the First Chamber. In the information I would have given that colleague, therefore, there would have been a high level of coffee. I would like to ask my colleagues, but there is also a high level of coffee. I do not want to become the owner of the perspective that these other colleagues have on speed in their own parliaments. With this connotation and with this framework, I would like to write a letter about it, but I would like to make sure that the Court concludes on the basis of that document. To be honest, I think it is more fundamental: either you find what Mr Van Ballekom is threatening to find or you do not find it. Otherwise, I'll know exactly how it goes. Then two weeks later, the Chamber says to me: well, the estimate was that three Member States would do it in two weeks, and it was actually just one. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u509	Minister, may I ask you in addition if that letter can be in by noon on Monday, noon, so that Members have time to study it and possibly the consequences...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u510	I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u511	So you promised a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u512	Before noon on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u513	... to Mr Van Rooijen and he will be in next Monday before noon, noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u514	Yeah, that's excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u515	Thank you. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u516	Finally. I hear the Minister all the time about his obligations to other colleagues, but we are, of course, mainly concerned here with the Dutch interest in this own resources decision. Then you can open negotiations with the rest of the EU with the kimono, but that is not going to end in an optimal result. So it's not about a few days more or less. The point is that you have to wait until the last minute for the dynamic that Mr Van Ballekom indicates to you and then you get a better result. That's the point. It's not about: does anyone want to spend a few days more or less? It is not about opening that kimono too quickly, which the Minister is inclined to do every time, I get the impression. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u517	I'm already going to read that book that's about to appear brush Mr. Otten's image in that open kimono off my hard drive. I would advise you and the Members to do the same, but of course that is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u518	Continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u519	Mr. Chairman. I think I've solved almost everything in second term. I would like to say to Mr Kox that you must be very careful when Mr Koole takes up Mr Kox's point of view in the Anglo-Saxon world. Then it is really time to pay attention, not just to me, but also to Mr Kox himself. But I promise him that I will not tell Mrs Marijnissen. Let's see. Then we've got another...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u520	The motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u521	The motions? No, I've got a whole stack of them, Mr. Chairman. No, we're gonna drink the poison cup all the way out. I think I answered all the other questions in the first term. I also agreed with a number of Members who said: you know, if you look at that budget, that is another reflection on what Mr Van Ballekom said. That's right; that's how the cabinet looks at it. Why? Because that's relatively predictable and unisono, and you can see how that works out year after year. So I would like to say that I agree with him. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the motions. The first motion is from Mrs Karimi, and she has also been able to seduce Mr Koole into that motion. It concerns the motion with the letter E. For this I have to agree with what I said in the first term. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. We should not want to do that now before 1 July. In the meantime, many group chairmen in the House of Representatives have insisted on urgency, so let's take that for face value. If the trajectory were to take longer, the cabinet would really pick it up. But I do not think that we should commit ourselves to doing so before 1 July. I do not think that is wise, so we must discourage this motion. Mr. Chairman. The second motion tabled by Mrs Karimi, with the letter F, requires a number of words. For the record, nowhere in the RRF is there some sort of separate rule of law test. So if Mrs Karimi means that not so much the cabinet as the Union should always consider what is generally applicable to the rule of law, then I agree with her in itself. I can then also give the motion judgment Chamber. But then the motion does have some signs of unnecessaryness, I say in all courtesy. But does she say that I want the Cabinet to apply an additional rule of law test? If she says that, I must discourage the motion, because that would mean that I would add an extra layer to the balancing framework. And I just can't. So I think Mrs Karimi should argue which of the two tastes it is. Would it be the first taste, then I can give the motion, with the qualifications I just gave, judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u522	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u523	I think that the Commission has also made it very clear in its own words that some of the rule of law principles are actually the basis of the assessment. The motion actually asks: 'Dear members of the cabinet, be very vigilant and take those elements into account in your deliberations as a factor in your judgment.' So this is not an additional mechanism; this can be done through the existing mechanism. That's right. But in the motion the cabinet is asked to be very proactive in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u524	I'm always in favour of the good sense of life, but this is how we're gonna ask for what we always do. Mrs Karimi then leans on the first leg of the two options I suggested. That's possible, and it's late at night, so I'd like to give the motion a ruling room. But fair is fair: everything the Commission does and everything the cabinet is committed to, of course you want the principles of the rule of law to be respected. Nor do I foresee that there would be any implementing decisions in which the rule of law could suddenly be thrown out of control. Moreover, this does not solve the fundamental problem that we had in the middle of the debate, which is about what is wrong in the area of, among other things, Article 1. So I do not want to spoil the pleasure, but I also want to be realistic about what the motion will be able to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u525	I fully agreed with the first part of the Minister's reply. So it didn't have to be a "but" after that. What's important? It is important that the Minister, the Cabinet, like those proposals, should be on the table, just very seriously, allowing the rule of law elements to be taken into account in the decision-making process. And then when the Minister comes home and it turns out that he has agreed to a proposal that goes very clearly against the principles of law, that is when the cabinet has to explain itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u526	I am trying to dance with Mrs Karimi to an exit where 'judge chamber' is above, with all the ifs and buts, but my answer was also not so for a grabletton that only the part before 'but' could be read. So I just need to maintain the appreciation to the full. If Mrs Karimi can agree to this, I can express my opinion on behalf of the cabinet on Chamber. I am not going to push up Mr Thorbecke's doctrine of discontent here, because it is too late for that. I have the motion by Mr Otten (35711, letter G). With regret in my heart, I must discourage that motion. It is also a repetition of moves that we have walked on with each other before. Then I have the last motion, (35711, letter H) of five members of the PVV Group. Referring to the debate that is disappointing for Mr Van Strien, but not surprisingly, I must also advise against that motion. Mr President, I would like to make one final point. In the letter that you receive before noon on Monday, I will briefly quote much more than an impression, and it will not include a number of things that we have discussed in this debate on this particular point and the latest state of affairs. Then the Chamber can weigh all that in the final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u527	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-eerstekamer-5.u528	I'm here to deal with the bill. There has already been a request for a vote on this bill by roll call. I propose that next week, in accordance with the request of the Otten Group, we vote jointly and severally on the legislative proposal and I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Finance Minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
