ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on two reports of further written consultations with the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport on the implementation of Mr Janssen's motion. on determining control of the States General in the event of the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and the draft Decision extending the duration of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. We need the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u3	Mr President, thank you. First of all, thank you for the flexibility today to be able to combine my initial programme today with the invitation here in the First Chamber. It's good to be here in the First Chamber. I'm way too little here. It has been referred to regularly that it was four months ago, and that could be the case. To be honest, I didn't exactly check the calendar, but it could just happen. And I would love to do that much more regularly. Mrs De Boer made an invitation to this, and I found that Mr Van der Voort's questions actually included a huge invitation. For how wonderful it would be to discuss this once more, and there is not enough time for that this afternoon, because this afternoon's discussion is mainly about extending the temporary law and the Janssen motion and how to deal with it. To begin with, Mr Grapperhaus will look at the details, the letter, the advantages and disadvantages of the various modalities and how to deal with them. I shall just say a few words about this, therefore, Mr Grapperhaus will go into this in more detail. Mr. Chairman. Maybe start with the temporary law and the need that, I think, everyone feels to continue with that temporary law. I would like to say that this temporary law was not a law that would give the cabinet a lot of powers to get through this crisis. We discussed this in the course of dealing with the law at all, namely that this temporary law was actually more of a better regulation of the democratic process and was precisely a better positioning of both chambers rather than giving more powers to a cabinet. The cabinet already had those powers under the Wpg, and that new law was not necessary for that. However, this new law was necessary in order to have adequate democratic control over the powers that the cabinet needed to combat the crisis. Well, that adequate democratic control, that necessity, of course, still exists. The need to combat the crisis, of course, still exists. And that it is a temporary law, that is a good thing, because that at least raises the idea that we are dealing with a temporary situation. We also have that; it seems that we are also just dealing with a temporary situation, but there is, of course, a moment when the epidemiological situation is over and the endemic phase is entering. That corona helmál would be over and that there would never be a corona patient anywhere in the Netherlands, that is not very likely. What is likely is that we will have to deal with it at some point when we are all vaccinated, that, for example, the most vulnerable groups will have to have repeated vaccination, and that there is a certain cross-immunity that will at least make us less ill, if we still get sick. But that stage, we are not in it for the time being; for the time being we are really still in the epidemiological phase, in the outbreak phase, in which we simply have to fight the crisis, with measures; that is one. In addition to everything we can do, including testing, to make things that might not yet be epidemiologically responsible possible again. And also, of course, vaccinate, because that is the real way out of this crisis. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to answer a number of questions concerning, in particular, the extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u4	I hear the Minister say that there is a certain phase, that there are also certain times when we can say: we are now in an outbreak phase, there is a follow-up phase. Can the Minister indicate what specific criteria are being used for whether we are still in an outbreak phase or are entering another stage, and how this is being aligned? What indicators are used for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u5	That's not so easy to say right now. I have heard a question about this. It was a question from the VVD Group, I think, because: isn't it crazy about that road map, that if you completely reduce level of risk 4, where we are now in gross mode and what measures are in place, you will be back to level 1; when will that level of risk 1 end? That was actually the VVD's question. That depends, I think, on the need for this temporary law. I'd think that had something to do with the need for distance. That's actually what this law regulates. It regulates the 1.5 meter distance and also the taking of measures through all kinds of delegation provisions. The moment when that is no longer necessary is when you say goodbye to this legislation. It may be necessary to opt for an adjustment of the Wpg at that time. I can't see that right now. That will be at a stage where everyone has been vaccinated, or at least most of the people have been vaccinated. This means that the risk of outbreaks, of a rapid spread of the virus which can cause people to become very ill, is no longer so present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u6	I actually still hear the Minister speaking in terms of "will" and "maybe." It is all very conditional, but are there not clear points to which the policy is geared, with particular policy direction and a certain step being taken? On the basis of what concrete, verifiable elements are these considerations made? Now it is: it will probably, in the future. All that kind of confusion. Can the Minister indicate what the balancing framework is for the policies he intends to pursue, to deploy and scale up certain policies or to scale them up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u7	I believe that this was also the contribution to the treatment of the law, so Mr Van Hattem is extremely consistent. Let me tell you why this is so complicated and then agree with you. Why is it so complicated? For example, because at the moment we know very little about the extent to which vaccines not only protect against becoming ill but also from making them sick, so the extent to which vaccines prevent transmission. The second thing we don't know yet is the extent to which those mutations of the virus will be accelerated. As more pressure is exerted by measures and by vaccination, you will see escape mutants emerge. They will speed up, but it is very difficult to tell whether it will make people sicker, whether they will be more contagious and whether they will be susceptible to the vaccines we have at the time. By the way, the vaccines may be adaptable again, but at the moment it is very difficult to say how fast that can be done, up to the production and delivery process. That's what makes it so difficult. I understand that we all want to be able to color on the calendar for a moment with: go, end of crisis. But there's just no way to do that. At the same time, I believe that you should want to work with indicators. So that's what we're doing. The Roadmap has been adapted to this point and has been updated. That certainly won't be the last one, I say. As an indicator, not only the number of infected people has been chosen, but also the number of hospitalisations. This falls from risk level 4 to risk level 1. If you are even lower, you will of course go to a kind of zero situation, in which you can say goodbye to the current situation, the current basic measures. At the moment when you can say goodbye to the current basic measures, you no longer need the law that legitimized those basic measures. So that's gonna be the time. When that's in time, I just can't say well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u8	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u9	I understand that the Minister cannot say the exact moment in time, but certain factors apply to the roadmap, as the Minister himself says. This may indeed be the level of effectiveness of the vaccines, but the R-value may also be a factor. Can this be made quite specific, so that we as a parliament can check which indicators the cabinet takes with it to take certain steps or not? Then we can also make that assessment clear and we know whether a law is necessary, whether there are certain adjustments and whether things can be withdrawn. Then we can perform our controlling role as co-legislator adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u10	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u11	Sure. I'd certainly like to do that. I will involve this in the scenarios that have been asked for. We have been asked to outline scenarios of what the future might look like. That's what the VVD asked, as well as, among other things, the CDA. What do these future scenarios look like? This will be accompanied by a lot of uncertainties, but I will outline them when the time has come for you to be able to say goodbye to the measures at all and when the need for separate legislation expires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u12	The need to scale down measures: that's where I really want it... I'm not a virologist, but there are a number of things that stand out in the discussion. Firstly, even at the lowest level on the roadmap, the number of infections still plays a very important role each time, as does the number of hospitalisations and the number of ICI admissions. I understand the latter when it comes to the question of whether we're keeping the care to ourselves. But has it ever occurred to you that at some point we have to go to a certain level where the number of infections doesn't really matter because we have a protected population, except that you have to keep an eye on whether there are no dangerous mutants between them and whether the vaccine still fits the virus? That indicator should in fact be phased out at some point. Then there's something else. We also discussed this morning that the virus remains among us. We will probably have several years to deal with the need for a higher level of care. People who do get infected will confiscate hospital beds and ic-beds. I understand that it is not possible in crisis time to scale up care, but at some point we could also say that we need to go to a higher level of care. Just phase it out when everything's back the way it was, it's not gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u13	What is your question, Mrs De Bruijn?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u14	So my question is: is the indicators also being looked at in this way, so that we can really deal with them quite differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u15	In the longer term, I agree with you, but in a much shorter period, we will do so by asking the OMT to give further advice on the indicators every three weeks. Why do we do that? Because you know that it is estimated that some 3 million people have been through the disease and have antibodies themselves. It may well be that those antibodies also decrease a little bit and antibodies for the variant we knew a year ago are different from, for example, the South African variant. Nevertheless, if you've built up antibodies, you'll really stay protected for a while, and if you get sick, at least it'll make you less sick. 3 million people are protected by natural means and 1 million have been vaccinated. That makes 4 million people protected. If we continue for a while, I expect another million people to be vaccinated by mid-March and perhaps another million by the end of March. And so, of course, we will only go on rapper in the coming time, with all the uncertainties of that. But there's going to be a moment, somewhere in the second quarter, that you've vaccinated so many people, plus the number of people who have already gained protection naturally, that the number of infections is going to decrease, or - and that's even more likely - the number of recordings is going to decrease compared to the number of infections. So we asked the OMT that the roadmap should be updated periodically on the indicators by which you put the measures, because the ratio between the number of infections and the number of hospitalisations is just going to change. That has been somewhat alternance in the past period, but that is going to change even more and more quickly. And then all of a sudden, it can go really fast. That's actually what you see in Israel right now. That's what's interesting about that. By the way, we now see it in nursing homes. In the figures that will be presented this afternoon, you can see that the number of nursing homes with an infection is falling enormously and that the number of infected 90-plussers is falling dramatically. It is therefore very interesting to see how rapid vaccination can actually lead to an effect. That is, in all uncertainty, the hopeful of what we are seeing now. I also agree on the longer term. We will at some point just have to deal with an endemic situation, the moment when the virus is here to stay, but in such a way that people get sick to a much lesser extent, and if they get sick, they will probably need a bed to a lesser extent. If there is a structural adjustment to the new situation, then of course we will have to do so. That's why we're working on scenarios. I'd like to share those scenarios with you. You mentioned the time: prior to a further extension. I'd love to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u17	The need therefore remains for some time to come. That was actually the port of the introduction. I said something about the Janssen motion. We have also had the debate on the decisive control of the Upper Chamber at the beginning of this law, which I believe is that the Upper Chamber with all the instruments at its disposal has quite decisive control. Nevertheless, you said: we do not think so. There was then a motion on this which was adopted. So the cabinet has to relate to that. In the way in which the cabinet would like to do so, Mr Grapperhaus does so. We understand, of course, that you want to see this implemented. On the question of how we could do that, also in relation to the House of Representatives, Mr Grapperhaus goes in this way. Then a number of questions have been asked about the extension. How does the cabinet look back on the process of the past few months and on the role of the First Chamber, on those double debates? I did mention that one. My concern was that I would spend so much time in at least one of the two chambers that that wouldn't necessarily help the fight against the crisis. In any case, that fear has not proved to be true before the First Chamber; let that be said. Of course, I have regular contacts with my colleagues in Europe. I don't think there's anyone who sees a parliament on the inside as often as I do. My Italian colleague, at most, will be present. But that is a reproach that could not possibly be made to the Senate, because it is true that we do not meet so much at all. In fact, maybe we don't meet enough to discuss the questions that live here in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u18	Mr Janssen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u19	But does the Minister still think that he gave that opinion when dealing with the Twm..... that the amendment that regulates control, blocking right, is an improvement for the Lower House in any individual measure of the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u20	That was the Heink amendment, wasn't it? Or are you referring to the Buitenweg amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u21	I am talking about the Buitenweg amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u22	Yes, the Buitenweg amendment, but for the Lower House, not for the Upper Chamber. Mr Grapperhaus will deal with that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u23	If you will allow me one more question, Mr President: what is the content? The Minister now refers to the fact that he is often in the Lower House, but he has given that amendment there judgment Chamber because he thought it was an improvement on the bill. As a result, the Minister is so often in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u24	No, I don't believe that, honestly. I am rarely actually in the Lower House because a formal decision has to be taken. I'm just there because the House of Representatives wants to start the debate at some point and that happens quite frequently. That's more the background, actually. That is not so much about that amendment. I am not here to complain about the House of Representatives, of course, because otherwise it will be ball again. We shouldn't want that. We'll be back tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u25	I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u26	Then we'll ask the following questions. It has been said: the cabinet shows too little initiative to involve the First Chamber in and inform about the corona approach. Let me say first of all that I like to answer. I like being allowed to do that. I am happy to be in a debate on the measures we are taking and on the need for them. It is part of our work as a cabinet to answer for. I would like to acknowledge that at times we have not informed your Chamber sufficiently or too late. The times when you pointed this out to us, we also related ourselves to this. I believe that, after a number of times we had not done quite well, we have shown some improvement. I think that's what happened. If there is a time when you would like to address us again, we are, of course, open to that. The Party for Animals and the SGP asked: can the Twm be renewed each time without the formal involvement of the First Chamber? I think that this question is rather touching on the Janssen motion, so I think it would be wise if Mr Grapperhaus were to deal with it in a moment. Has the duration of the crisis not led us to a situation other than that provided for by the temporary law? That was a question from Mr Nicolaï. I believe that the law should be extended by amendment with a much shorter period of time than initially proposed. I believe it was a year in the original bill. When it came back from the Council of State, we made it six months, but then the House of Representatives said: well, that can be done by half. That's how we ended up at three months. I don't think last year, when the law was passed, there was someone who actually thought that we would be out of that law within three months. Unfortunately, he wasn't that temporary. I hope, however, that the temporary law will not last as long as Mr Otten's examples; I hope, however, that there will be something of a temporary nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u27	Mr Nicolaï of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u28	My question was not really about what the Minister is now answering. My question was: aren't we living in another situation? As the minister said, it goes from pandemic to endemia. Aren't we stuck with a law that's gonna take a lot longer than we even imagined? Should this not mean, also in the government's view, that parliamentary involvement, and especially that of the First Chamber, should be restored?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u29	Then again it relates to the way in which the parliamentary involvement of the First Chamber has been shaped. That is part of the Janssen motion on which Mr Grapperhaus will return shortly. Those are the modalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u30	I think it is very good that Mr Grapperhaus is addressing the legal-technical issues, but it is now more about the question: how does the VWS Minister look at the development of the virus, against the idea that we will not lose it anymore? Should this not, from the point of view of combating the pandemic and the endemic situation, mean that we must also take into account a "normal" situation in our legal instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u31	I do not know if that is a separate argument as such. Anyway, Mr Grapperhaus will soon discuss the role of the First Chamber in the temporary law. As regards the transition from the epidemic to the endemic situation, I have said that we will outline a scenario of how we see it and indicate what factors influence it that we do have in our hands, what factors have a very great influence on it that we hardly really have in control, how we wish to act on it as a cabinet and how we wish to prepare ourselves for it. One of the things you have to prepare for is shaping the legal instruments. Does the Wpg provide a sufficient legal instrument for this or does the Wpg not provide for it? Then you will also have to make a separate legal arrangement at that time as a follow-up to a temporary law as we know it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u32	I agree with the Minister. But then the question arises: if we do change that Wpg and we are no longer in a crisis, then Parliament's involvement should not be as normal as it is with any legislation. That is actually the question I asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u33	Sure. I can imagine that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u34	Please continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u35	A number of questions have then been asked about the measures. Let me say first of all that I would like to take a more detailed look at the reasons for the measures and the choices that the cabinet makes or does not make. That invitation was actually made by Mrs De Boer, but it was also in Mr Van der Voort's question. I shall now briefly mention it in the hope of another invitation. Then we can discuss this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u36	I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u37	When can we partially drop the Twm, Mr Van Dijk asks. Of course, we talked about this in part. That's gonna take a while. I'm not gonna repeat that. We talked about that. Don't let the church be the fence shutter. The Roadmap does not provide enough leads. Well, the roadmap obviously provides insight into the measures per level of risk. The churches as such do not have a very large place on that road map, because they have a separate constitutional position. Therefore, they cannot be limited or closed by legislation. One could say that they are limited by the covenant or actually simply by the belief community's own view that you should act in accordance with what is applicable in the rest of society. That's a special position. That's a special position, you might say. In addition, a church would not be subject to other group sizes. These are the group sizes as indicated in the roadmap, related to a certain level of contamination. Again, these indicators are updated periodically. But they actually apply to the churches as well. I hope and believe that the covenant will develop as these indicators develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u38	Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u39	I had actually expected that the Minister of Honor would return to this, but very well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u40	He could have done that even better, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u41	Maybe I'll come back to it later. My question was actually a bit of a question for an explanation of the situation. I know that there has been a lot of consultation with the churches in the past. Now I'm hearing less about that. There is talk of relaxation. Church services are highly structured meetings. I'm just wondering if the cabinet has them on the retina. Are relaxations that are conceivable in this corner also caught?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u42	At the risk that I am already going to light up a very small tip of this afternoon's shutter: I would like to say something about the idea that we are now in the phase of 'come, let's relax for a while'. In the last few weeks, we've been told that that third wave is coming. I think you could say that we had the first cautious week of that third wave. We saw an increase in the number of infections last week. The week before, we had a decrease in the number of infections. So you could say that last week was perhaps the first week of the third wave and that the week before that was the last week of the second wave. That's the epidemiological situation. We see an R of about 1, where we know that we still have about 100,000 infectiouss, which now consist of more than half of people infected with the British variant. The R of that British variant hasn't been under 1 for a moment. Not for a moment, with all the measures we've taken. On the one hand, the epidemiological situation. The other side, of course, is the support for the measures. That is incredibly important, precisely because we know that if we all stick to those measures, we need to take much less. So of course we're looking for: what could possibly be done to give something of air, space and oxygen? With oxygen, you always run longer than with a lack of oxygen. That's how we want to look at it; that's a bit of an affair. We are not in the atmosphere of "let's relax a lot," because it really isn't time for that yet. I think we're at the stage of thinking about how with a little more air and space, with small steps, we can look at what we can do again. So far I understand your question, but it is really up to the church to think about it: what could happen again? When it comes to group sizes, I would really like to be very reluctant to change anything about that at the moment, because that is just not the stage yet. With 100,000 infectiouss at present still growing........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u43	Clear. Thank you for the substantive answer, which I understand. My call is mostly next. We're looking for some oxygen. I like the way the Minister puts it. Forget about the search and the search for oxygen, especially not the churches. That is my call, in particular, to use the space and, if necessary, to give them a hand-out of: so and so there might be a little more. In any case, I would like to call for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u44	I understand that very well. I understand that very well. Mrs. Prins says: you must avoid the possibility of yojo policy in the event of relaxation. I understand that very well. That would also be my answer to all those pleas that you read in this and that newspaper and sometimes even on billboards to open things up under the motto of "restore." This will, of course, only take longer to recover. A plan to separate vulnerable people and then take a lot more risk with the rest of society is, of course, not really a plan. That's more an expression of corona fatigue than it really is a plan, because that would just be deathly dangerous to do. By the way, if we go too far in relaxing, if we take too big a step there, if we do that too much rücksichtslos, then of course that is a recipe for regret afterwards. So be careful with too big steps, because that always leads to gejojo. Then you're pretty sure you're already creating that you're gonna have to close the whole thing down in a while. You don't want that, because I believe that only strengthens the corona fatigue. Then maintaining homework.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u45	Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u46	I thank the Minister for this explanation. We are also specifically concerned with looking at a form of recovery plan for all groups, in a certain balance, ascending to what can be done from the vaccines and from the infections, so that people feel: if that is there, then we can do it and we can do it. We have to do this from different angles. I would like you to make that clear to us again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u47	I'd love to do that, maybe fly along a few lines. The first is that we know that there are a lot of people who are suffering from the virus or could potentially suffer from the virus. For them, you have to take all these nasty measures. In the meantime, I think there are other people who are suffering from the measures against the virus. That does not mean that you can let go of those measures, but it does mean that you must also be aware of them and see how to soften and alleviate them. Hence all the economic aid packages. They are, of course, astronomical support packages that we are doing on this point, rightly and also necessary. In addition, we have also made a social aid package of 200 million, not least in order to alleviate the first need in this area, not so much because of the virus but because of the measures taken against the virus. That's all for the shorter term, you might say. For the longer term, it is simply damaging. Of course, the damage done by the schools has been so close for so long and has been teaching online. Of course you haven't recovered that with a few tens of millions. You're really going to have to invest heavily in order to actually shape that recovery. We have also done so, with astronomical amounts again, spread over several years. That is a recovery plan for education. We have also said that we expect recovery plans to be needed for several sectors. In the meantime, it is necessary to give perspective again, because it is not only by mitigating measures that you can ensure that the damage is reduced. You should also, where there are opportunities to give something of space, want to exploit those opportunities. You should let all students in higher education go to school one day a week than you should put a psychiatrist next to all students to improve their well-being. That is the way we want to look at it, of course. So if we can do something again, we want to weigh and divide that space well and offer handles for how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u48	This is entirely in line with what we want to see. We would like it if those plans were actually made available, so that people also know that space will be available when it is possible. That might help. I appreciate it if you can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u49	Sure, we're gonna do that. Then maintain homework. Homework is one of the ways to limit contacts. We know that if you don't, the workplace is a pretty important source of contamination. At the moment, that's not so bad. Fortunately, we have managed to reduce the number of infections in the workplace very much. I have to say that all previous attempts to make agreements with umbrella organisations and industry organisations to ensure that everyone keeps to that work at home are finite. If you can still get stuck in traffic during a lockdown, you know that some of the people don't stick to that. By the way, if you observe that yourself, you're one of those people yourself. Well, that's the case, then. I've been one of those people from time to time, I say, because working at home just doesn't always go. For some people it is true that working at home is not really possible, by the nature of the matter, by the profession that one carries out. At the same time, I think that more people could actually work at home. So we stress the importance of working at home and all measures very strongly. We work with social partners on criteria to further stimulate home working. Mr Koolmees does that. We are urgently working on a legislative proposal to allow temporary closure of business premises if there is a risk to public health through the further spread of COOVID-19. That is what Mr Grapperhaus and colleague Koolmees do. Thirdly, the cabinet explores limiting the maximum group size per office and per business space. Fourthly, the cabinet is going to communicate more strongly about working at home. Fifthly, the cabinet is examining the possible additional measures of a mandatory nature. By the way, we are also working on test track 2b, I say for the real gourmet of all 100 pages of letters. Testtrack 2b makes it safe to work in those situations where working at home actually doesn't go better by working there with high-intensity testing. So that's what we're working on. We're doing a lot, but it's not working enough yet. So we need to do more. Then there's the road map. VVD, CDA and SGP have pointed this out. We talked about the scenarios. These are scenarios for the longer term. How do you expect the economy to evolve? When do you expect it to end? If I were to plot it myself in time on the way there, I would think that at the end of the second quarter of this year we have so incredibly vaccinated, that you can really do so with a lot less measures. Then you'll actually have a relatively normal summer. But only under the condition that there are not all kinds of new variants that do not appear to be susceptible to the vaccine at all, under the condition that the vaccines contribute significantly to the inhibition of the transmission and under the condition that sufficient vaccines are supplied, of course. Those are the conditions we're dealing with. But if I had to estimate that now, I'd say, "Around the summer, you actually vaccinated all groups with an increased medical risk." In part, you have vaccinated the healthy 18- to 60-year-olds. Then I guess you're, on your own, going for a relatively normal summer. But how do you take the steps on the way to summer? That's what the road map's about. Then how do you get to work just after the summer? That's what those scenarios we're gonna make are about. We'll send you both your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u50	Mrs Pouw on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u51	I have a question for the Minister. The Minister said that it also depends on the extent to which the vaccines control the transmission. If we know that the chance of getting sick by the vaccines is greatly reduced, does that risk of transmission still matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u52	We work in a period of scarcity and that always makes this whole vaccination campaign different from all the comparisons that are made. You're vaccinating as fast as you can, which is as fast as new deliveries come in. These have a varying effect on protection and probably also a variable effect on transmission braking. So you will always be in the situation that part of society has been vaccinated and not yet part of society. What if I'm a nurse in a nursing home and I work with older people who have all been vaccinated? If he's got 92% protection from that, they can still make people sick as long as they can transmit virus. If I've vaccinated 100 people in that house, an average of eight people can still get sick. So as long as I can still spread virus, I'm gonna have to stick to the measures. That's the hard part. I come home, then of course I am still able to infect the rest of my family, even though I have already been vaccinated myself. So you will always have to consider transmission inhibition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u53	Just to clarify. It's about absolute transmission... They don't say at some point... The Minister mentions a 92% chance. If we consider that acceptable, are we prepared to weigh that against the benefits of reducing the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u54	Oh, yes, I do. It's about when you reach group immunity by vaccination. This is related to the vaccination rate and how high the vaccination rate should be depends on the effectiveness of the vaccines and on the infection of the virus at that time. We know, of course, that we have been dealing with more infectious variants and we know that we have switched vaccines in terms of protection ratio. So you'll have to take that into account, and the estimate now is that you're going to have to go through the 70% and maybe get something through the 80%. That was initially a matter of concern. I think they were also shared here in the previous debate. If you look now at the vaccination readiness, you will almost reach Korean figures in the groups that have now been vaccinated. These are the care workers in the acute covid departments in the hospitals and the care workers in the nursing homes. Everyone is in the front row and that is the positive effect of scarcity of natural weather. Everyone wants that scarce stuff to have. I think that is very positive, because a high vaccination will help to establish a high level of protection in the population and thus to achieve herd immunity earlier. But apart from that, of course, it is true that if there is a certain degree of protection and a certain degree of transmission inhibition, as in Israel, for example, you will see that the number of infections is falling and that the number of hospitalizations, the number of hospitalisations, is falling. And that simply reduces the need for very strict measures to protect people. The aim of our approach was always twofold, on the one hand protecting the most vulnerable people and, on the other hand, preventing hospitals from getting overwhelmed by covid patients. These two objectives remain, but the need to take very strict measures to do so naturally decreases as the level of protection, the degree of vaccination, increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u55	I'm a little freaked out, if I understand correctly. I actually hear saying: if there is 92% protection, then we always have an 8% chance of infection and then you have to avoid that still...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u56	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u57	So that doesn't have to be those very strict measures, but if we do end up with mouth caps and hugging... Do I actually hear the Minister say: as it looks like now, we can't hug and wear mouth caps for over a decade, as long as it's endemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u58	No, I didn't say it that way. Also with the percentages I do the reality, which of course is always more complex than a few numbers, deficit. A protection ratio of 92% of Moderna among the elderly group is very special, because that is a mRNA vaccine. That's a new generation of vaccines, isn't it? It is normal for vaccines to decrease their levels of protection as age increases, but those mRNA vaccines continue to provide protection up to 90%. You have different types of protection that are being investigated. Think of protection against hospitalization, from severe illness or from mild complaints. These investigations all show different percentages. That's why the newspaper reports are always fluttering about that. As more people with this type of vaccine are protected, the need for measures is greatly reduced, especially with these types of vaccines, with an enormous degree of protection. The question that we often get now is: the people in my nursing home have been vaccinated and the employees are also broadly Modo, so can we let go of the measures already? I'd say don't do that for a second. Because if you have 100 people in your nursing home, you still have a serious chance of dying. You shouldn't want that. It'll just be your grandmother. So I think we really need to wait until we take that type of risk. Does this mean we're gonna walk through the middle of jut-jut with a mouth cap? No, definitely not. But I still can't make an assessment of when to finish it. This is precisely because of the scenarios that we need to develop and the roadmap that we need to further develop. I believe that we have said here and on the other side of the debate on the law on masks: there must be a moment when you say goodbye, namely when they do not contribute enough to safety. The same applies to the safe distance standard. Your question was: when can you say goodbye to the temporary law? I can't say yet when, but we have to say goodbye on the threshold of the epidemiological phase to the endemic phase, is one thing that is certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u59	Finally, Mr Nicolaï, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u60	I heard the Minister specifically say: 92%, then you have 8%; then you go home and you have to take action. If we do not have 100% protection, that is the Minister's view, does the government still believe that protection should be provided?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u61	There's no such thing as 100% protection. Those risks are going to be given the background to the epidemiological situation at that time. I was just telling you, we've got about 95,000 infectiouss by now. We now have 95,000 infectiouss in the Netherlands. That means that as a grandmother in a nursing home you have a relatively high chance of being hugged by a grandchild who is actually infected. If we build up a much higher vaccination rate with each other, the extent of the epidemic is shrinking and shrinking. In the long run, you'll have the situation we had just before the summer. At that time, I think we had estimated by the RIVM at some point about 2,000 to 3,000 infectiouss left. Then try getting infected by a hug. That is not easy, especially if you have also received a vaccine with a level of protection of 92%. That protection is therefore not an absolute fact. This protection is a relative fact and relates to the extent of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u62	Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u63	Oh, boy, now the doctor's getting up to correct me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u64	No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u65	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u66	Are you afraid of doctors?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u67	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u68	It's getting more and more interesting now. Gradually, the chances of getting infected will become less and less great. Until when is the government going to say: these are the measures? Where is the border and how does the government deal with it? How small should the chance be before you say: there might be room for a nursing home itself to decide whether or not to make a decision? Do they get that space at a good time and where is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u69	Not yet. The question is also whether that is a straight line down. In fact, I think that the chance of getting infected could increase even in the beginning. Let me explain. As we have more people vaccinated and we are going to see effects at the first vaccinations, we are already seeing the effects of 90-plussers and workers in acute care and in nursing care that the infection rates are going down, even though we have just begun; that is very special, there is going to be a call for relaxation, because we know that we will have to take longer measures. I can't say exactly what it's like in time, but somewhere in the second quarter that might lead to a slightly higher number of infections but lower hospitalization. The phenomenon you have argued for in recent weeks is going to occur: if you first vaccinate the people who are most likely to have hospitalization, you will see that you can handle a higher number of infections before the purposes of the crisis response are compromised, so before you put at risk the number of vulnerable people you know how to protect and the number of hospitals you can protect from overwhelm. In short, I think it will be as follows in the coming months. I think that during that period you may first see the number of infections going up, and that at some point you see the infections among the most vulnerable people, and therefore also the hospitalization, going down and down. Then you come back to another stage, in which you have vaccinated so many people that you will see, also through transmission inhibition of that vaccination, that the number of infections will also decrease very much at all. This is a very low risk of infection, even if you have been vaccinated with a non-mRNA vaccine, i.e. with a vaccine that is not very high. Yes, then you can actually say goodbye to the most restrictive measures. And when will that be? Yes, I would so like to point out a moment on the calendar on which that might be possible. If I had to say it now, I would estimate that at the end of the second quarter we have really vaccinated all the groups that the Health Council has been able to come up with, and more than that, and that you have avoided a whole lot of risk of serious disease and risk of mortality anyway. And with that you have also removed the need for serious measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u70	Then I would like to see the Minister and the Cabinet be so alert that if the number of infections increases, but not the hospitalizations, then perhaps that is a reason for allowing relaxation, because that need is so great in society. So there's got to be that alertness. We shouldn't lose a few more weeks there in caution. I would also like to congratulate the Minister on the enormous medical knowledge he has gained in recent times. It's extraordinary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u71	Well, thank God. Thank you. I always feel a little shook up. Oh, I can see the President being moderately enthusiastic about this. That's the LUMC, isn't it? The LUMC is always a bit more critical. Well, I'll get on with it. So we've all become a bit amateur virologist on the couch; that's how it goes. We're all the best union coach, too. That's right. Well. I come to the effects of curfew. How am I going to show the effect of curfew? I have a viewing tip: look at Jaap van Dissel's technical briefing tomorrow. 'Cause next thing you know, we're gonna have a whole methodological debate here, and then I'm really gonna be the amateur virologist. I'm doing it very abstractly. Grosso mode is the case that the curfew and the arrangement about one visitor at home are not very easy to separate. Why not? They entered at the same time, and you've seen that from that moment on, it has done something to reduce the number of infections. Why did we do that? Because we knew that third wave was coming. Why did we know that? Because that British variant below the surface was just an ever-increasing proportion of the number of infections, where the R-value of that British variant was never really below 1. In addition, the R value was below 1. So you saw the epidemic as a whole shrink. In addition, the R-value was 0.95. She also stood at 0.9. But you always saw that the British variant was actually above 1, and the classic variant was actually below 1 because of the measures we took at the time. Now that has lasted for a while, but by now we see that this British variant is a thick two-thirds of the number of infections, and thus also pushes up the average R-value. And with that you will see that we have actually been in a mess in the last week and will just go up again. The effect of that curfew has of course been to reduce the epidemic in recent weeks. But can we say that you must want to separate the curfew from that one visitor arrangement? Can we break that up? The answer is, no, we can't take that apart. But you can certainly see that curfew and that one visitor arrangement have helped. On the question of how exactly this is in the statistical basis, I give the tip to really look at Jaap van Dissel tomorrow. But international comparisons also show that curfew does somewhere between 8% and 13%. "Does," because of course there are always cultural differences and there are always differences in relation to overall package of measures. But we expect the curfew in the Netherlands to do about 10% on the R.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u72	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u73	Mr President, it was not quite clear to me, but I saw the Minister looking my way, or at least looking in that corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u74	I was watching Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u75	You were looking at Mr Van Dijk, and he would have asked. I was afraid for a moment that the Minister had misunderstood my comment. I said that, because of proportionality, it will soon be necessary to clarify whether that curfew works. I was afraid that the Minister had taken that remark as a question for an explanation of exactly how it should be calculated. In any case, that was not the case. But the President allowed you to speak out for a long time, so perhaps my comment is now a little mustard after the meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u76	I saw above "SP and SGP." I thought that was an exotic combination, and that inspired me to make a whole argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u77	Of course, if the minister was so blurry, I don't want to sit around. I'm not going to talk about the effects of curfew. I want to link what the Minister is saying more to what he said earlier about the predictability of policies: no yo-yo policy or anything like that. Is it not very unfortunate that the Prime Minister said only a few weeks ago at the press conference that the curfew is the first thing that would go off and that it is not suitable for change? He used very sturdy muscle language: "We kick it down the gutter first." There would also be no trade-off with schools. Now we see, at least, that has been leaked, let us say that the curfew is being used to facilitate relaxation elsewhere. That's not consistent and predictable, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u78	Although this has been tried trickyly, I cannot anticipate tonight's press conference or the measures we are forced to take. I can say that, of course, everyone has a stomachache from a drastic measure such as curfew. That is how I see the Prime Minister's statements, and I can fully follow them. I also think that everyone has a stomachache from schools that can no longer meet physically or from what you just mentioned, namely the churches that can not actually celebrate their worships live anymore. So I think everyone has their own stomachache when they take measures. To be honest, I understand that a liberal has great difficulty with this type of measure. I think we all do. In addition to the OMT opinions, do you include other advice in the decision-making process? We happened to have thought about this in detail, not by chance, I think, last week, also in the cabinet. In fact, we have always done this by taking a cross-cutting test on the package of measures we are taking, as we call it in rather ugly Dutch legislation from the point of view of the economy, from a social and enforcement perspective. As I said, there are people who are suffering from the virus and there are people who are suffering from measures against the virus. Although that second often does not mean that you can do the first thing less, it does mean that you have to take that into account and that you also have to want to make an integral decision. So what we are doing is, of course, that we always submit the package of measures to the OMT for advice on what its impact is on the pandemic. But we also do a test on behavior, on communication, on implementation, on enforcement and on its socio-economic effects. Those opinions and tests shall be involved in the decision-making process. In this way, we ourselves ensure integrity in the weighting we do as a cabinet. The recommendations of the OMT, as well as the main thrust of this test, are now simply sent to the Chamber with the documents on the day of decision-making and the press conference. Thus, every Tuesday that has been decided on, you have to work through a whole cube of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u79	Mrs De Boer, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, because this overlaps with the debate we had here on Friday, in which the Minister of Justice and Security, on behalf of the government, has promised to make this cross-cutting test more transparent and also to involve the Segers motion. So I assume that there will also be further steps to do so even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u81	Oh, did the minister tell you we're going to make that more explicit? That's what we want to do. We will. In this evening's letter you will see a first improvement in our lives, because it was usually somewhat behind, very much in the annexes and so on. We are really going to put that in the front of the letters, to show you how we actually make that cross-cutting test. In addition, the cabinet will ask the planning agencies to look at the possibilities of providing social and economic advice, all the way in front of the decision-making process and to intensify it. So that's definitely what we're gonna do. The conversation about exactly how we're going to do that is taking place right now. Then I had one more question from Mr Van der Voort. That is the question about stimulating new treatments. You will hear us very often about vaccination, testing and all new applications of testing. Kluytmans, for example, spoke yesterday about rapid testing in higher education. I also mention self-tests, self-take-out with employers, tests to enable safe study, access tests to make events possible again. We are also working on all that sort of thing, not only with vaccination, but also with all that kind of stuff. As far as treatments are concerned, I'm often a little more reluctant. I have sometimes considered injecting hydroxychloroquine in front of the camera, but then I thought: perhaps it is better not; let's leave that to others. In fact, I believe that this will put politics on the doctor's chair rather quickly. Are innovative treatments not to be stimulated by political governance at all? Well, I guess so. That is why we have made a great deal of money available to all kinds of research programmes in this area. We have set up an advisory panel to look internationally at the most promising developments and identify them, and advise me on them. For example, I have been given the advice very regularly about a particular treatment "you actually need to buy preemptive items that we may need if this treatment proves effective," on which I just more or less followed the order that I received from that advisory panel, and purchased that stuff. And sometimes a treatment turned out to be somewhat effective and sometimes not at all. In any case, I think you can explain much better yourself with what means and with what means that was not the case. Sometimes the hope was very high and later much lower, and sometimes the other way around. This also has to do with the different stages in which it has been used. So far, the main focus has been on new uses of existing medicines. Then it's about dexamethasone, for example. In addition, new, innovative treatments specifically targeted at COVID-19, antibody therapies, for example, are also emerging, which we have invested a lot in. Given the possible scarcity of these treatments, I always choose to buy an adequate quantity, although we do not know enough about the effectiveness and employability of these treatments. In addition, we are participating in a joint procurement of the European Commission on this type of treatment. As soon as medical-scientific insights and treatment advice allow, these treatments can be quickly used in the Netherlands. Suppliers indicate that the initial delivery of those products, i.e. those antibody treatments, could start within one to two months, depending on ongoing contract developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u82	I am very surprised and very pleased. I see this as some sort of bonus answer, because I had not asked this question in my opinion. But it doesn't matter, because it's interesting information anyway. So I really appreciate it. What I have asked is not to think forward late or late, and to put strategies in place properly. And when we're talking about testing and testing society, how come we're only as far along as we are now, when we were able to test from gross Modo April last year? Of course, the antigen test came a little later, but it would have given us so much perspective if we had thought ahead and had been farther than we are now. I think that was a question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u83	Could it be that it's actually not so bad with that being too late? Take the whole access test. At the moment, I do not think there is any country in Europe that is actually doing it. I believe Denmark is considering it, too, but there is no country that is currently doing it. With a lot of treatments, such as plasma treatment, which I myself have been very much involved in, we are far beyond other countries. With a lot of that kind of treatment, we are actually very far. A lot of resources, which you know much better than I do, have been bought in stock, far ahead, without knowing anything about their effectiveness. At the moment, I think, 35 million rapid tests are ready, but it is also about an epidemiological situation that makes it possible for you to do so responsibly. At the peak of a wave you don't sit up and quickly test and think that education can open up again. So, frankly, I'm fighting a bit of the image that it's always too little, too late. I do think that's the picture in the average morning paper, but it's the question if that's an adequate picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u84	Finally, Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u85	Yes, I understand you see it differently. The fact that other countries are still no further than we find no excuse in itself not to be a little further. I think there were opportunities. The question I also raised about testing policy, which is linked with it, is when it becomes possible to do those home tests. I understand that it has yet to be done by someone who has been certified to do so. Of course, it would be a huge threshold reduction if testing could also be made accessible in the home setting and everything that follows that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u86	I very much agree with you. That is exactly the way we are working on it. You've been taken off by a medic. The certification has often been done for this purpose. The CE marking is related to a decrease by someone trained to do so, or a decrease under the aegis of someone trained to do so. The market release is that of a medical device. If you change that, the manufacturer has to give his own permission first. Of course, he says: can we also talk about its liability? We know that in case of self-take-out and guided self-take-out the scores are something else. So we first did the validation of those tests in a different situation than they've ever had a CE marking for. We now have a lot of validation studies on this. The second thing you do is see if you can get rid of the legal bumps. As a minister, you could delete it by making a decision to actually grant an exemption for having a CE marking. If you do that, you're gonna ask the IGJ for advice. It will only give a positive advice when all kinds of liability issues and reliability issues have been resolved in a good way. You're gonna have to take a few steps to do that. I will put it as quickly as possible, because with you I think that guided self-degradation and ultimately normal self-degradation is the way to start testing very much more frequently than we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u88	It is always a big threshold for people with complaints to go to the test street. If you just have such a test at home next to the toothbrush, then it is a lot easier to test after brushing your teeth. Still, it won't be a day-to-day activity if you have to shove that thing in real deep. So it's still more pleasant to be able to do gargle tests, sabbatical tests or any of those other innovative methods. As soon as there is something beautiful and new, we buy it and we go to work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u89	I have indicated in my contribution a number of directions that we could take, so that we can at least try to speed up. Accelerating is needed to create support. You can see that support calving down every week, and that's fatal for our policy. So you should do something about that right away. That's what you're doing. That's not the point. But as far as we're concerned, it can go faster. We believe that vaccination, rapid testing and the creation of bubbles is the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u90	But what is your question, Mr. Raven?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u91	My question is: do you want to respond in that overall context? You have indicated that you are not ready for relaxation after all. But with that combination of vaccinating, quick testing and creating a social bubble...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u92	Thank you. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u93	...we could get rid of it within a foreseeable time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u94	Honestly, I don't really believe in that social bubble, because our society just works differently. Take, for example, the contagion just after the summer with the Spanish version of the so-called "society" we never mentioned, but that was the one we were given at the time. That was actually an infection that occurred from young people, but it didn't take long before that variant was common to all other generations. Fortunately, because that means that there is a lot of contact between generations. That's only good. I do believe that, in addition to the route of vaccination to control this virus, tests can make a great deal possible along the line of detection and control. We're testing for that, too. We now have a huge capacity ready and there a lot of large-scale and high intensive testing can be done. That's what's gonna happen. In addition, you test to make things possible again, such as making education and work safer. We will. We will. I have actually just responded to that. That will mean that at some point you can do more, also things that actually given the epidemiological situation may not make any sense at all, because hospitalization is decreasing and the number of infections occurs especially among groups that are less vulnerable to serious illness. So I honestly think this is exactly the route we're going on. I don't call it a marshall plan or a delta plan, as I sometimes hear, because as a Zeeuw I think: there really was only one Delta plan. And by the way, there was only one Marshall plan. This is the plan to get out of this crisis again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u95	The term "marshall plan" fits the metaphor of the war we wage against the virus, so in that sense I used it. In your answer at first, I also notice a bit of false accuracy. Is that the road we should be afraid of? You state that you cannot give 100% certainty and that we must take 92% into account. That leaves 8% and 'I have to take all kinds of measures'. Are we not doing so much false accuracy that this is just troubling the way to return to a normal life?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u96	No, I don't think so, apart from the numerical example. I just said that you should see it in the light of the epidemiological situation at the time. With a low number of infectious agents, you can afford more risks than with a high number of infectious agents. I think the risks at the moment are just very big. Look at the countries around us. Look at Britain. In the middle of December they thought: come, we're going to have a merry Christmas, because people have earned it and then they might last longer afterwards. They've been so sorry. It could take hours for you to get an ambulance if you needed one in London. They've really been out there with their legs on the ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u97	We're gonna wrap it up a little bit. Minister, where are you on answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u98	Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u99	You're done. Mr Nicolaï has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u100	I asked another question for this minister alone. I saw him order his folders and thought, "He thinks he's done." But I had asked the question about the possible mandatory quarantine. As a government, don't we do too little about that? It's a measure that's just in the law. You don't have to do anything else. Why isn't that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u101	I have reported this to the Chamber in writing many times. The possibility is currently in the current Wpg. Why is it in there? That's for an A disease. When is that gonna work? At the moment when someone turns out to have an ebola infection or some other creepy infection, but they themselves are not impressed enough and just leave the door. What does that require in legal proceedings? The GGD must tell the mayor, or indeed the chairman of the security region, that it is not justified because someone is a major risk to public health. Subsequently, the chairman of the security region shall impose a quarantine obligation on that person under the Wpg. Then we have to go to court, so the district attorney will have to get to work on that. Next, the court will examine whether there is sufficient evidence that there is indeed a risk to public health... Well, you heard, and I'm only halfway through the procedure. You will hear it: far too cumbersome; will not work. So what we are doing, Mr Grapperhaus and I, is that we are preparing a much simpler administrative variant, especially for that group that is the worst of the quarantine: the travelers. Only 27% of these are subject to urgent quarantine advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u102	Let me ask you a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u103	There's another bill coming your way at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u104	Did you say that question was with the written questions in this Chamber or in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u105	In all those thick piles of paper we send every Tuesday, so in those hugely bulky letters; it is answered exuberantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u106	Then I don't think you're going to follow up on that. We do not intend to repeat questions which have already been answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u107	It was not so much a question from Mr Nicolaï as an excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u108	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u109	They were actually just arguments on my part in those letters, because I am very excited about that myself, about the quarantine obligation. But it doesn't work so well right now, so there's got to be something better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u110	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u111	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I know the whole legal procedure, because I had asked questions about it myself. I wonder if it wasn't about the isolation that Minister De Jonge is talking about. But now the question. I hear there's something in preparation. Can the Minister tell me and the Chamber when he will come up with something in that area?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u112	March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u113	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u114	In March, so that could be late March, it could be early March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u115	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u116	In a day or seven. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u117	Now that the minister said he was ready, one more enlightening question. The Minister himself did a very large part of the debate in October, both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. I made a very specific reference to this in my speech and asked a number of questions about the views and opinions of the VWS Minister who had largely done that debate. Am I to understand that all this is now moving to the minister of JenV for today for the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u118	Well, look, the Minister of JenV has interfered with the letter of modalities as you know it, and that is what Minister Grapperhaus is now working on. That's very entrusted to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u119	Certainly, but my contribution was also largely about the attitude of the cabinet and also the minister. Mr Bakker even went so far as to call a statement of reasons by the VWS Minister for an amendment 'inappropriate'. So I did ask a number of questions about whether there is any progressive understanding, including with this minister, of the role of the First Chamber. Before the minister's gone...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u120	No, I'm not leaving. I'm gonna stick around for a little while. Mr Grapperhaus is really going into this. And the cabinet really speaks with one mouth. Otherwise, I will do half of Mr Grapperhaus' answer. And we both get paid the same amount, so that wouldn't be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u121	Sharing honestly, that's what we SP are for anyway, and equal pay. But then I await the answer of the Minister of JenV, especially if the Minister says so firmly here that the cabinet speaks with one voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u122	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u123	And we understand that you will leave at the end of your part of the answer, in the first period. If you say that it is not, it may take a lot longer, because then you will also stay with the Minister's reply...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u124	No. It would be nice if you could, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u125	That's what we agreed. If you don't come back to that, it stays that way. Mrs. Prins on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u126	Then I think I have the happiness to ask you one more question, via the President, of course. You have just indicated that in the letters that are now going to the Chamber more attention is given not only to the opinions of the OMT but also to those of a number of other organisations. In my contribution, I also asked a question about communication. I have the feeling that the cabinet is failing itself by not communicating any more the considerations from the different perspectives, so as to give people a basis so that they can understand why certain choices have been made. And I think that that also helps to create support, and hence the effectiveness of the measure. Can I have another answer from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u127	The shortest answer is that I agree with that. I do think that we could do more, that we could outline more of the dilemmas that we just run into. We have a chance to do it right again this afternoon, so I hope you will see that we are learning that lesson better and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u128	I'll be happy to watch tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u129	Like Mr Janssen, I would have expected a somewhat more substantive response from the Minister to the position of the First Chamber, but it is mainly an argument on all kinds of medical and corona aspects. I may be mistaken, but I think my question about the Corona app, which was so much to do last year, has not yet been answered. I asked what was going on with that, because I don't hear from it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u130	I have reported a great deal about this question to the House of Representatives. I also think you got those letters. Not all of them, but I think you've had some of those letters, too. I don't see him in the set here. Let me do it out of my head. That corona app already has quite a number of downloads; I believe about 4.5 million. In over 100,000 cases where someone had an infection, there has been reason to instruct the people with whom such a person has been in contact to inform about it. In the meantime that has had quite an effect. I'd be happy to send you the latest figures. We are looking into that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u131	That's a promise from a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u132	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u133	Thank you. Then I'll take a look around and see if there are any questions for the Minister. That is not the case. Then I'll suspend for a few minutes so there can be a reshuffle behind the government table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u134	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u135	Mr. Chairman. I would like very briefly, if that is all right with you and also with a view to loosening the tongue muscles, to give a brief reflection on the fact that in a book that is to be published some time from my hand, I am very much in favour of the existence of the First Chamber. I also really say that it reflects on new regulations and fundamental rights, as has been pointed out by a number of people. Mr President, it has been said by a number of your Members, to speak with an old schlager from my youth, that should we have these two emergency treatments that we have had? I say personally that I found the debate we had last Friday a very valuable and substantive debate. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, the question arises as to whether that is the way in which we as a cabinet and the First Chamber should only understand us with each other. It almost evokes the image of that cartoon of two football captains who exchange vanes in a full stadium and say to each other: we must stop meeting each other like this. Mr. Chairman. In fact, your Chamber must have pointed that out. Indeed, during this period of corona time there may be a more stable, regular exchange of views with each other. I just want to say that again at the beginning. Of course, I note from all kinds of reflections and motions that have been tabled here that your Chamber is looking for ways in which, at this time of crisis, we can ensure that the reflection for which your Chamber was meant to be the first is therefore adequately addressed by the First Chamber. This also immediately explains why we struggled with each other in the cabinet with the question of how we deal with Mr Janssen's motion. At some point I said: let me continue this struggle on my own, because it is really something important for the question of how we should relate to each other in the ménage à trois of the First Chamber, the Second Chamber and the Cabinet, at such a time of crisis. Mr. Chairman. In the letter sent on 28 January by my colleague, also on behalf of me and the Member of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, nine modalities were outlined. Eight of these modalities require a legislative amendment. For one, modality number nine, it's not. I would just like to point out that the cabinet's preference is that, in other words, it is a serious political commitment. As I said on Friday, I simply promised to discuss this with the House of Representatives. But first of all, I would like to say a few words about the other modalities, before I go into the question of what modality would be nine. These other modalities require a legislative change in all cases. Then, if we have just had the legal process ourselves, a legal system in this area is a little unusual. Moreover, a legal process is unmistakable. Mrs Pouw pointed out an even more uncertain point, namely that we believe about 25 days I want to get rid of it, because February never counts so good for people who do not have a study but only have a course of elections. That's part of it. At the moment, at least there is not much enthusiasm in the Lower House for a legal provision which could block the entire State-General from extending the Twm. Firstly, the amendments of the House of Representatives were rejected at that time by a large majority of two thirds of the votes, but also the written questions we received from four political groups in the House of Representatives at the end of last week did not vote optimisticly. I saw that VVD, CDA and SGP in the Lower House in any case do not need the legislative amendment. I should like to say quite frankly that the SP has spoken out for it. However, despite all the urgency legislation, the timetable for such a bill would be considerably longer than that of, for example, the emergency law for which we were here last Friday. A bill like this would not be possible without consultation. I really want to add the following to that. I emphasized that in the House of Representatives on Thursday about the Twm. In the House of Representatives there was a feeling of: well, the subject we talked about Thursday and Friday could have been in the Twm. At that time I pointed out that the Twm, as it initially went into consultation, was rather trimming, so to speak. A great deal has been done and more has been taken out of Parliament's proceedings. If we were to legislate on this, it could be a considerable obstacle road.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u136	I hear the Minister say that it cannot be done without consultation, but suppose that Article VIII of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which contained the clause of decay, had been amended by the House of Representatives by amendment in a manner consistent with what the Janssen motion expresses. Then it would've just become law. There would have been no consultation and even the Council of State would not have been involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u137	That's right, but that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u138	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u139	I know it didn't happen, unfortunately. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here with the questions we're asking the Minister. I would just like to point out that the Minister bases his argument that such an arrangement, which really only concerns the control of the First and Second Chambers, is absolutely impossible without consultation? It is not about social interests, it is only about the state's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u140	Well, no, no misunderstanding. I said that if we were to opt for an option that would involve a legislative change, I would expect, apart from all the other points I have mentioned, that we would also need a consultation round and that the consultation round would lead to the necessary things. That's all I said. I referred to how difficult and difficult the route around the Twm has already been. I am thinking, for example, of Mr Nicolaï, who says: yes, but what about these two emergency laws? Let me just mention last week's law. There was, of course, a route ahead of that, with at least a large majority in Parliament for the introduction of a curfew and only questions about the basis were raised by the court ruling on interim measures: is this the right basis? But you would have to go back to the point of consulting everyone about such an adjustment of the Twm. I would like to stress that there are also parties who believe that there should be more dynamism and less democracy in the fight against crisis, or I do not know what. I think it would be a real shame if we had to go all the way through that in the consultation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u141	Mr Nicolaï, third time, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u142	The Minister says that he only said that he could come. But is there going to be a consultation round, isn't that just decided? That hasn't been established anywhere else. That's one. Secondly, there was no consultation on the new legal basis for curfew. If there are issues that require speedy legislation and which only concern the position of the States-General, then you can obviously do so without consultation. I must tell you quite frankly that my group thinks it is an exaggerated argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u143	There was a consultation round at last week's bill. I have also explained, in both chambers, that this time it went faster than last time. A month earlier, under the Continuation Act, the Council of State, understandably, also took a week for it. But a consultation round is not yet the Council of State. There's just a lot more to it. You really should do that here, because this is really fundamental. If you're going to change the law that way, you're going to change one of the fundamental institutions of the process of this law. I don't think we should do that by changing the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u144	I think we should do it by amending the law, but I would like to object to the way in which the Minister puts the debate in the House of Representatives in October as an open debate, with an open exchange of arguments. That was a debate that was closed in advance, with amendments agreed by a number of parties a week before the debate. They then discussed what this Twm should look like in order to be able to count on the support of those parties. And nothing else was possible in the debate. So it wasn't an open debate. Perhaps the Minister could also respond to the fact that a number of parties who at that time, because the deal had been made that they would not support anything else, voted against the Heink amendment, are now under the Janssen motion. So where the Minister raises all the objections and problems and explains why there might be major problems, including at the Lower House, which will meet in 25 days' time in a different composition...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u145	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u146	My question to the Minister is: does he not see it all too gloomy? Would he rather than tell us why it can't all be done, not want to think with us about how it can be done in a quick way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u147	This is not an advertisement for myself, but I did get the response last Saturday morning from a number of people that I had been an incorrigible optimist. Of course, we all have to wait and see in the final evaluations that we are about to receive. So looking at something gloomy, I'm not gonna do that fast. Firstly, how or what is a debate in the Lower House and what is preceding it; I think it is quite clear that as a minister I do not have or should not have any judgment on it. I couldn't even do that either. That's one. Secondly, I see, of course, that a majority of the First Chamber needs a certain participation or at least an additional exchange of views on Mr Janssen's motion. That's why we took it seriously. I'm trying to unite things now. I thought we were going to be a whole end on Friday with my promise that I will talk to the House of Representatives about this. But what I keep trying to make clear is that there's a catch 22 here. I've dropped that understanding before. There is a kind of snake here that bites itself slightly in the tail at this point. That is why I maintain that it is at least the most important that I speak on behalf of the cabinet in the House of Representatives. That's one. That's what I promised. Then there is also that point of modality number 9. That is the serious political commitment. But I might be able to explain that further after the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u148	The Minister mentioned nine modalities. In the last letter, there were ten. Because there was another one added. That was the delegation subject to reservation. It was added. That is what several Members referred to in their first term. That is the Wgggb variant in terms of shape. We referred to that. Perhaps the Minister should read the letter from the Minister of the United States of America just as well. It was sent on his behalf. That is the tenth variant it contains, namely that as variation on modality number 6 there is also, according to the line of the Wgggb, a possibility that the cabinet prolongs and then immediately sends a continuous law to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u149	Maybe this is something for the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u150	I would like the Minister, before he forgets to take that option, to treat that modality as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u151	I absolutely do not blame Mr Janssen, but it is the Wbbg. The donkey bridge I learned from my officials is: we can work it out. When you put it that rhythmically, it's convenient: Wbbbg. But there is also an element of legislation in this. As I said on Friday, we always have very good, sharp debates, especially from Mr Janssen's side, but let me be quite clear: I doubt a little between the snake that bites itself in the tail and the catch 22 or whatever. The point is that we can only break through this by saying, as a cabinet, that we are going to raise with the House of Representatives that the First Chamber believes that there should be a clear and serious interference. Then we have to see if the House of Representatives... I also say honestly: if we are very realistic, then that must be the House of Representatives after 17 March, because otherwise we are still a bit busy pour le besoin de la cause, because it is still two weeks. We really have to talk to each other and say: listen, could we change something about that? Mrs Pouw is gone now, but what she touched about the fact that there will be a new House of Representatives, you can also see as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u152	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u153	That is why I do not want the Minister today to confine himself to saying his own words: I just want to make a commitment, because that legislation is far too complicated, because in October the House of Representatives voted against a pre-concluded agreement. I would therefore ask the Minister to take up the opportunity offered by the legislation in the course of his speech. I have not prepared a motion on that point, but modality 10 is preferred by many colleagues. I therefore ask the Minister to take a serious look at this and see what can be done there. If this includes consultation, Mrs De Boer will say something about it, then that is part of it, but that does not have to take 23 weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u154	I would like to await the Minister's reply on the modalities, and I would like to point out that, as far as I am concerned, it does not have to be "or-or" between modality 9 and any form of legislation. I think that can very well exist side by side. Let's talk about the Internet consultation. I was a little surprised that the Minister now calls it an argument or objection to a legislative process. I've been looking for government.nl. It says about consultations: no participation in all laws, ministries decide which proposals are suitable for consultation, internet consultations are particularly appropriate if the laws and regulations change the rights and obligations of citizens, businesses and institutions. What this Chamber proposes as a legislative amendment does not change the rights and obligations of citizens, businesses and institutions other than the States General. By definition, the States-General will be consulted when legislation is introduced, because they will have to pass judgement on it. The argument that internet consultation would be needed is now falling out of the sky. I would have expected it in the letter on the modalities. I don't think he's very strong, I must say. I therefore support Mr Janssen's call to see what can be done. If the cabinet says "yes, we feel this Chamber and we are going to make a proposal in accordance with modality, submit it to the Council of State and submit it to the House of Representatives..." At that time, so if there is a positive attitude of the government and the House of Representatives says no, then we are done talking here. But we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u155	It's about internet consultation now. I'm talking about consultation and the obligations there are. When I was minister for a few months, one of my most experienced legislative officials showed me some sort of school record of the legislative process in the 1950s, which is now framed in my room. That's 17 steps. It is a very nice, nostalgic album, which I can recommend to anyone who can afford a list as reproduction. They also showed me how things are going these days and how many steps it takes. Although I've graduated from college well, I've done a course in state law, I really have to say that I fell off my chair when I saw how incredibly many parties are involved. That's what I'm talking about. That's not an internet consultation. I really do, and there is no question of me getting rid of it easily; quite the contrary. I care about that point. I have often said this in debates, both in October and early January, last week and now again to Mr Janssen. I'll take a look at him through you, Mr. Chairman. But we've just had a whole legislative process with that Twm. I've already outlined what's been cut and shaved and what's not. If you see in the legislative process that the House of Representatives has made a certain choice very consciously, which has been discussed in the First Chamber and has continued without a novelle, then I find that you cannot say: we are simply throwing another law into the House of Representatives. Then we really need to do that carefully, including consultation. Last Friday I promised Mr Janssen that perhaps that is also a state-law novel that I will discuss with the House of Representatives about how we can shape this in a good way. I promised this not only to Mr Janssen, but to your entire Chamber. But he took the initiative. Before the interruption comes, I really want to emphasise that we are talking here about an urgent pandemic response. If this was a legislative proposal on the management of the Dutch flora and fauna in the light of nitrogen oxides, it would also be an important issue; there is also an urgent matter on which I could imagine a slightly different situation. We have an extended law here every three months. That's a short time. I am telling you quite frankly that in the discussions we have had in both Chambers we have been unable to fully foresee how much this would still control our lives and how long we would still be in this pandemic. There's a point of urgency in this matter that I've just explained. That makes it much more meaningful, I think. I'm not talking about all the technical points. I'm talking about making that heavy political commitment because I said: if I'm going to do that through a legislative amendment, I need to have the new House of Representatives behind it first. Then I have to go through the whole consultation process and so on. In my view, this makes less sense in the context of the fight against pandemics than in the course of this serious political commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u156	That Twm will be with us for a while, unfortunately. There may also be a change, a recovery or an adaptation to current events. If that is prepared, the power of the First Chamber can also be taken away. Much more important is: what discussion does the Minister intend to have with the House of Representatives? A discussion in which the minister says "I want to carry out that motion, House of Representatives, because that is what the First Chamber wants, so can we see how you can agree to it?" I find a meaningful conversation. But a conversation where he says, "The First Chamber wants something, but I don't like it; you don't?" That's what I'm saying. Forget it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u157	I said something about that on Friday. Then the question came up: are you going to be completely motivated behind it, or not, with your thumbs down? I said neither of them should. Otherwise, I'm going to be some kind of advocate for one parliament after another parliament. That is not the role a member of the cabinet should have. I did say, however, that as a cabinet, I think we should refer this matter to the Chamber and say: listen, this is a point which we should have the debate on and hear from you how your Chamber is opposed to it. Insofar as there is talk of communicating vessels at the First and Second Chambers, I think it is good that this works directly without the cabinet entering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u158	Is the Minister then prepared to say to the House of Representatives: pay attention, the wish of the First Chamber is different from the rejected amendments and motions in this area? As far as I can see, these are all on a kind of alignment of the powers of the First Chamber with the Second Chamber and not specifically on the Temporary Law measures. And two. At the time, we made agreements with that Twm. But as far as the position of the First Chamber is concerned, you are free to go back to that. Would you like to give the House of Representatives room on the side of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u159	If this is the misunderstanding, I'm gonna get rid of it right now. So I'm not going to the House of Representatives with some kind of positive advice from "do it now," but I'm not going to take a negative advice either. I am going to say literally: a motion by Mr Janssen was adopted some time ago, and this is intended to enable both chambers to decide independently from each other whether or not to extend the Twm in the framework of the veil. We're not in a mutually exclusive situation right now, and so on and so forth. I don't need to repeat all that here. I will go on to say: House of Representatives, I would like to join you in the debate to hear from you how you are looking at this and that is the new House of Representatives. Then I say: the communicating vessels within the States-General themselves must be able to continue to feed that debate, so to speak, without the cabinet having to play an active role in it, because I feel very unhappy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u160	I don't know if it's a commitment, but that's what I call it. I note that the cabinet would at least take a more neutral position and would not say, after a weighting of its own, "we prefer variant 9" or something like that. Then you'd go back to, "Don't do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u161	I have already expressed my compliments for this, but for all of us Friday was a firm, concentrated and strenuous day. I am looking at my colleague, but I think I literally said on Friday that I will not be voting on 'you shouldn't want to' or on 'do it now'. I'll really say, people are playing this and we need to get through it. What bothers me is that your room says "we're not moving forward with that motion." I say that this must be the case with the House of Representatives. So that way!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u162	I heard the Minister say: but we are talking about a pandemic and the structure of that law is what it is. He also said in between: yes, and no novelle has come either. No, of course not. We're not gonna come up with a novelle when it comes to a major crisis bill. The Minister should not make such a lame remark, I think, but that aside. My question to the Minister is: is it not true, precisely because of what happened recently, on 9 January and last Friday evening, that we can deal with emergency laws? Mind you, the First Chamber also has a right of consent. In other words, should the House of Representatives stop the idea that we are some kind of delay club, which occasionally comes together, and that you should not involve them, because then we go from evil to worse in a crisis time. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u163	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u164	... proved that we can deal with emergency laws the same day or the next day. Would you, therefore, at least take this neutral view into account that we have a positive basic position in this respect? Like the Minister, I am an incorrigible optimist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u165	Two things. Let me start with the good news. The good news, of course, is that I have said here and in public that it is very appreciated that both chambers, and certainly your First Chamber, were prepared to look at it in the very short term. Nota bene, when we were here in January, that was nice for the Guinness Book of Records, because that was even the first time that there was a meeting on Friday. Mr President, you yourself told me that it had not actually happened since 1738.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u166	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u167	That's the good news. The bad news. You have noticed that I get a little prickly when something unkind is said about my officials. And I'm getting a little negative when things like "flawed comment" come in. I've just explained how the trial went and I really appreciate your Chamber having accepted that Twm. But the point is that if they had said "well, we're not going to do that, because..." I might have had to come back with a novelle to the House of Representatives. "Even if" because that depends on whether a majority could be found for that. That didn't happen. In fact, we didn't get there at the time and I appreciate it, so I end with good news that your Chamber also realizes that we are dealing with something we have never experienced before, a serious pandemic that has been going on for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u168	I have not now received an answer to my question. I'm already glad we moved from "maybe a little negative" to "neutral." My question is whether, when choosing a neutral position, he can give what I have just said to the House of Representatives. I am referring to the argument that this is independent of whether the Lower House is a higher body than the Upper House, because you can find it, but that is nowhere; we are equal legislators...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u169	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u170	Does the Minister intend to take into account in this neutral position that what has happened here are facts and that the House of Representatives must give serious consideration to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u171	I'll come back to "more worthy of honor." Mr Janssen has already forced me on Friday to take a neutral stance. Unfortunately, I cannot allow Mr Van Rooijen to do so anymore. Then there's another point. I think of myself as the famous messenger of Greek antiquity. We may never see each other again after the debate in the Lower House. I'm just gonna bring neutral news that's out there. I'll say: this is playing; dear House of Representatives, how can we solve this? You know how it turned out in ancient times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u172	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm gonna wrap it up. You have asked for the floor and I have given it to you, but I only now realize that there is already a spokesperson on behalf of 50PLUS today, Mr Janssen. Now we have two spokesmen on behalf of one group. That's not really the point. Why don't you go in conclave with Mr. Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u173	I don't have a question anymore, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u174	Well, that's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u175	The advantage of this is that the honour I always give to Mr Janssen, for a certain percentage, also radiates to 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u176	It already did, because Mr Janssen spoke on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u177	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. That's great!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u178	I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u179	I feel like we're starting to get somewhere. I hear the Minister say: I made a commitment on Friday, and I think it is now a little sharper to submit the desire of the First Chamber to be decisively involved in the extension to the Second Chamber as soon as it meets again. He said: I will do so neutrally with regard to the modalities. I have two questions about that. The first question is: can you promise that you will also include modality 10, so to speak, which is included in the further answer? The second question is as follows. You will transfer it neutrally. Suppose this Chamber would give a preference to one of the modalities. Then I assume that you are also willing to share that preference with the House of Representatives. That is my second question. I also have another question; for convenience I agree with it. You say: it would be nice if the Chambers would also consult each other outside the cabinet. We have talked about this in our committees in this Chamber, but I see so badly how we should shape that state law. I don't know if the Minister has any further thoughts on that, but I'd like to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u180	The Minister. I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u181	I understand very well what Mrs De Boer is saying. It's hard to create a kind of room in which exchange takes place. Perhaps that would be an idea, by the way, but we still need to adapt something in state law. But the communicating vessels are also there through the debate itself. What we're saying here today is coming out. What your members say in opinion articles and elsewhere are also things that come out. So there's always a good way to communicate things. I would also like to give the following to Mrs De Boer. We talked about this in one sentence last Friday. It is good to consider it in greater detail now. I have always said, therefore, that I have drawn this part to myself, apart from all the legal aspects, so that there is no misunderstanding about this. I think that we really need to put this debate on the map quickly. As soon as the new House of Representatives arrives, I'll have to stop you from putting that on the map. We must really try to do that somewhere in early April, because we are always talking about an extension of three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u182	In view of the time, I would like to know how far you are with your cubes, with your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u183	I've got a few more cubes. They're all very thin, so I got through that fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u184	So you're a long way. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u185	Questions I asked the Minister didn't answer. I asked if he was willing to include modality 10 in his conversation with the House of Representatives. And, if this Chamber is to express a preference, is it going to convey that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u186	Yeah, that's my fault. Modality 10, I think, is modality 6bis. I have said about this: that is also legislation, and I am fine with all those things... Let me say that this letter will also be shared with the House of Representatives, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u187	The letter and the further reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u188	Yeah, exactly. Because it's a letter to you, Chairman. But if your Chamber agrees, I would simply like to share everything in it with the House of Representatives. I might be able to take over the letter as my letter, partly on behalf of the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u189	And let's say we prefer it. Does that mean the same thing? Will you take that, too, as information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u190	Yeah, I said I'm gonna play the part of that person whose head ended up on the block. But, well, let's hope for the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u191	I call Mr Nicolaï, who is about to make his ninth interruption today. Shortly, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u192	Thank God they're all very short, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I hear the minister say he's neutral. But the Minister's field of expertise also requires you to think about the state of law, don't you? Does the Minister agree with me that you should also ask the government to ask herself the following question, regardless of that neutral position in that fight between the First Chamber and the Second Chamber? "We are asking for an extension of a law that is very important for fundamental rights. If it could be without formal involvement of the States General... That's what we made back then, scared of the pandemic. But we are farther away now, and that also leads the government to think again. Can't we just take it one step further?" That is actually what I belong to all my fellow senators. Why does it have to be so neutral in that sense? It's not about being elected...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u193	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u194	...but the point is that as a minister, you must also defend the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u195	This is not short, Mr Nicolaï. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u196	Yes, but the rule of law has, of course, been part of a proper legislative process in the context of the Twm. That process began with the consultation. I'm saying by heart that that was the beginning of June 2020. That process has been completed in your Chamber, said in my mind at the end of October or early November. At that time it must have been: you keep me for good. In that process, a certain structure of a law has been set up, which should be extended for three months each. And in that structure, your two Chambers have agreed to the approval each time for those new three months by the House of Representatives; let me put it quite simply for the viewers at home. We do have a debate with the First Chamber, but the House of Representatives can basically, if you put it very simply, stop it. So all this has been weighed up and, frankly, I think that is really very legal. In the meantime, and also in the context of the rule of law, I think it is a good thing that we can say to each other, on the basis of Mr Janssen's motion: well, we need to look again at whether we still think that is the ideal situation. That is why I said that I really feel obliged to enter into this conversation with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u197	Finally, Mr. Nocolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u198	My question to the Minister is: does he think that is an ideal situation? The Minister can answer that question, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u199	I find the question about the ideal situation incredibly difficult to answer. I'll explain why. Many people have already forgotten, but in the period from 27 February to the end of June it will have been, I think, 30 June, but I know that we did not have an exact crisis structure. That crisis structure means primarily that the Prime Minister and, yes, you will be sitting in front of it, and the Minister of Justice and Security will decide how to deal with a number of issues in the context of the crisis in question. This crisis structure means that the entire government process and the parliamentary process still have a certain degree of subjugation to that crisis. That could be different. During the MH17 crisis or the Hurricane Irma crisis on Sint-Maarten in the autumn of 2017, a lot of processes continued. Here, in this crisis structure, everything was really centered for four months around the fact that we were trying to steer the crisis very carefully, in the end, with four ministers. I don't want to go back to that time; let me put that first, but that was really the most suitable model at that time. I'll always stand for that. Then, when we got more control over a number of developments around the virus, we switched off or shut down the crisis structure; what do you call it? There was then a period when we still worked on the basis of emergency regulations for a number of months without the Twm. That's what the Council of State said: don't take too long. Fortunately the Twm was there from the beginning of November and there is now this parliamentary process. At the beginning of April I would like to speak to the House of Representatives and say: we may be a further phase. I hope, when I hear about last week's predictions, that perhaps 2.5 million or 3 million people could have been vaccinated. We hope we have that third wave then maybe a bit behind us and then it gets nicer again and all that kind of stuff. So we're in a new phase. You hear me keeping this long story because I want to outline that there is not just one ideal solution for every situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u200	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u201	How we shape the rule of law doesn't depend on the number of infections? We've been five months since the Twm came into being. Then we can take stock of the situation again, right? So my question to the Minister is again: why should the Minister not choose to say that there is now a time when we can also increase Parliament's involvement in this state of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u202	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u203	I just said something about that at the end. So that's what I'm referring to. But I'm also going back to the beginning, about the rule of law. I keep telling everyone that Prime Minister Rutte and I spoke at the very beginning about how we should do this. Then we concluded that we would not declare a state of emergency, as some countries did. We are not like this in the Netherlands; we are not like this. We don't have cops kicking people out if they don't follow a rule 100%. We have a different society. I may say it with a little too much drama in my voice, but we have always watched that state of law. Now, following the Janssen motion, it would be very good to discuss with the new House of Representatives how she looks at this. Then that neutral approach comes from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u204	Thank you, Minister. I suggest that you conclude your speech first, after Mr Van Hattem has made his interruption, his brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u205	Yes, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u206	At the end of the speech I will see if there are any other interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u207	I hear the Minister saying that there is no state of emergency, but the Wbbbg has indeed invoked state emergency law. That is a limited state of emergency. I must therefore put this remark by the Minister in a slightly different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u208	No, that's not right; that's just not right. The state of emergency is regulated by the Coordination Act exceptions and accompanying legislation. The Wbbbg is part of our state emergency law, but it's not a law that sees the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u209	Very short, but in all sharpness. What I understand from the literature is that there is a limited state of emergency, but that, as the Minister himself confirms, it is part of the state's emergency law and therefore a limited state of emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u210	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u211	No, I don't. That is undoubtedly a difference of opinion on the literature. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a few more questions. Mr Recourt asked about the motions and about the "heavy." Motions are of course always taken seriously, but here you should do it, as I see it before me, so that if the situation arises that the... Look, if the House of Representatives says yes to that extension law and your Chamber too, then we have no discussion at all. If the House of Representatives says no to the Extension Act, you're already out of the question, as you said. The important situation is that in which the Lower House says yes and the Upper House would say no. In that situation, as far as I am concerned, leaving the motion heavy means that that view, which seems to differ between the two chambers, obliges the government to make a very motivated choice for one or the other. We are in the middle of these two. Then there will undoubtedly have to be a debate on the basis of this highly motivated choice. Because if that very motivated choice means that we say 'yes, we think, having heard the First Chamber, that it must be different from the Second Chamber', the House of Representatives, which has that right to say yes or no to the extension law, will rightly call us immediately for a debate. That is the way it should be, and that seems to me to be the right way of doing things in democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u212	Mr Janssen still has, and I suggest that we finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u213	Just for a minute. I would like to refer back to the debate we had on the Twm, in which the Minister of VWS said both in the Lower House and in this Chamber: the primacy lies with the Lower House and that weighs more for us. So we can determine in advance what will be the outcome of this consideration by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u214	No, yeah, but that's... how can I say that? Now there is doubt about the sincerity of what I say. That primate is in the fact, whether we like it or not, that at least at this time the House of Representatives is now in a position to decide whether or not to extend the Twm. That's how it's settled now. And what I'm aiming at now with option 9, if I say it right, is that the explanation of being heavy is next. When the House of Representatives says "yes, we will continue" and your Chamber says no, and we think that these motives should be really heavy, we bring them to the Chamber. Then we have a debate to our ears. And if we don't find it heavy, we'll tell the First Chamber why we don't think so, and we'll have a debate here. So that is the case in both cases. That is the way it should be in democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u215	Thank you. Finally, Mr Janssen, I would like to ask you because we will also have a second term and a second term on the part of the government. So you can come back to this at length.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u216	Finally, Mr President, otherwise this will not be discussed: I was not concerned about the fact that something has been arranged in this area by the House of Representatives which is very important. I was concerned that in the debate in October it was actually said that in the whole political decision-making process the primacy lies with the Lower House and the First Chamber is next, and the cabinet therefore chose the Lower Chamber and did not see a role in this for the Upper Chamber. That's what I cared about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u217	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u218	Mr. Chairman. Let's see. That was Mr Recourt's question. I think I have already answered Mrs De Boer's question. I hope that I have made a number of things clear in the debate on the interruption, including the neutrality of the message. This applies equally to the tenth modality. Then I come to modality one. Mr Nicolaï asked about the conflict between the Lower House and the Upper House. That should indeed be done in this way. I think it is quite important that the cabinet should then go back to the House of Representatives to say: you have decided that it must be carried through, but we are nevertheless making serious arguments from the First Chamber not to do so. Moreover, these serious arguments could also be legitimate for the House of Representatives if, for example, they are new facts and circumstances. It will only really be a serious debate in the Lower House if we say that there are arguments that are not sufficiently weighted in the process at the Lower House, but here in the Upper House have come to the fore and so on. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Pouw had another question about the interpretation. I would like to stress once again that Mrs Pouw was not present for a moment. In any case, I have said that I think Mrs Pouw's point about the new Chamber is important. We therefore need to discuss this with the new Chamber as soon as possible after 17 March. I have also said that the new Chamber must then see what the procedures we have reported to the First Chamber are and how and why we have reached nine. Finally, a question from Mr Van Hattem. He had another question about curfew, but we discussed it at length last Friday, so I do not see very well what that has to do with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u219	A decision was taken yesterday by the Cabinet to repeal the Continuation Act for curfew. The Continuing Act gave the basis from the Wbbbg to establish these measures. That law, of course, indicates that such a continuous law is necessary to provide that basis. Now that the Continuation Act is not in place, no legal basis has been created for the measures put in place so far. So my question was: are the corona fines imposed on the basis of curfew still legitimate? Shouldn't they be withdrawn, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u220	No. The Wbbbg works in such a way that a royal decision is made, as it is called. On that basis, there is a ministerial arrangement. It applied for about 30 days. I'm saying it out of my head. I don't know exactly anymore. About on day 24, the appellate court decided in the morning by means of an interim order that it should be withdrawn. That's suspended by the court again in the afternoon. That judgment was also not served, so the royal decree remained in force all this time. That royal decision was submitted yesterday by me to the Prime Minister and the King, as I promised you. They've withdrawn it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u221	I have a letter here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u222	Yes. So it works so that the curfew from January 23 to yesterday... What date was it yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u223	February 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u224	So until February 22nd the curfew applied, so legally, at least as far as curfew is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u225	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u226	I wonder. The point is that in order to provide the royal decision with a valid legal basis, I think the continuing decision should be taken by the two Chambers of the States-General. If that is not there, then I do not think that the royal decree has a legal basis. Therefore, the basis for the fines imposed during that period could also be cancelled. I would have liked to have a clear analysis of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u227	No, I'm sorry, but that's really a misconception about state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u228	Then it seems to me that we should leave it at that. Are you at the end of your reply, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u229	Yeah, then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u230	We now come to the second term of office. I would like to give the floor to Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks, but I understand that she would like to suspend for a moment. How long? Ten minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 4:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u231	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief in second term. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. Following on from what I just said in an interruption, I expect the government to continue to be fully committed to the implementation of modality 9, so to speak, but I think it is important that steps should be taken, if possible, towards a better legal anchoring of the position of the States General. I have heard that the Minister indicated that if the Chamber gives an opinion on this, he will take it with him to the House of Representatives in new composition. I made a motion asking the Chamber to pass that judgment. Can I read it to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u233	Yes, if you want to submit it, you'll even have to read it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u234	I think there's always an interaction. The: Mr De Boer, Mr Janssen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Recourt and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in its letter of 19 February 2021 on modalities to be followed in the implementation of the Janssen Motion (Room Documents I 2020/21 35526, L), the Minister of the United States states in point 8 that the delegation is possible under required approval by law (as referred to in Article 2.40 of the Regulatory Instructions);]] [[Whereas that modality provides for decisive control of both Chambers of the States General;]] [[Notes that the Supreme Court's preference for determining control of the States General in the event of an extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is based on this modality;]] [[invites the government to pass this opinion of this Chamber on to the House of Representatives in new composition, and to discuss this option with the House of Representatives, and then to report to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-AK]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u235	For your explanation: this is about modality 10, or in the words of the minister: modality 6a.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u236	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I would like to give the floor to Mr Janssen, who will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u237	Mr. Chairman. In the absence of Mr Van Rooijen, I am speaking again on behalf of 50PLUS. At the beginning of his speech, the Minister said that a book of his will be published next week. At that time I laughed, but that had nothing to do with the publication of the Minister's book, but that was in the memory of the technical briefing with Mr Voermans, last week, a fragment that was repeated by Arjen Lubach. He said it's not to advertise, but a book just appeared from me. The memory of that fragment made me laugh, but that had nothing to do with the Minister, I just want to make that clear. It was a very special debate, in which Mr Backer was coiffed. The Minister talked about nodding and shaving, but those are really two very different things. We are anxiously waiting to see how the hairdressers are doing tonight, because that is what she was very pleased with. I find it a little complicated when we come back to the proceedings in October last year in the House of Representatives every time in the debate. The Minister mentioned that it was constitutional and that there had been consultation. But the final form of the Twm had nothing to do with that consultation but with how the Twm was boarded up in a structure by a number of parties in the week before the debate. During the debate there was no room to change anything about it. That was not the result of the consultation. The Minister said: yes, I am not about that, that is the political process, or words of the same effect. That's true, but this is an observation I'm making. And that also means that I am still curious, as the Minister also responds on behalf of the cabinet, of course, to Mr Bakker's statement of the motivation of the Minister of VWS in the debate in the House of Representatives on the Heink amendment. I referred to this in my first term, when he said: yes, but then we always have to do all the debates twice, and I am not going to double debates; that is just extra work, which the cabinet does not see as an addition or added value. I think that is quite something, because if Mr Backer gives the qualification that that was inappropriate, then I think that is a firm statement. At least it was not a substantive argument, let me put it this way. So I'm gonna ask the Minister how he looks at that now. Mr. Chairman. But having said that, I still think that what happened in the Lower House... As I said in the case of interruption, if we look at that, then that is something that you have to ask yourself whether that is what you are waiting for in the context of the rule of law and the purity of legislation. The right to block was a novelty, the Council of State said; that was very special and very exceptional. Well, the most positive thing the Council of State could say about that was that it was justifiable because it didn't seem to be in conflict with the Constitution et cetera. But I still like it. Now, when I see how many objections are raised against the implementation of this motion, with'major social consequences', the letter says... But my question is: what are the major social consequences of the implementation of the motion? Because I don't see it. Yes, if the doom of the cabinet occurs that both Chambers reject the extension and there is nothing at all, that the cabinet is left empty-handed by both Chambers... Yeah, that's got big social consequences. But the implementation of the motion in itself has no major social consequences other than that perhaps many people are happy that extra control is being placed in Parliament. So please have another reaction from the Minister on this point, because it appeared a few times pregnant in different letters. Mr. Chairman. In that light too, of course, I have already said that the Twm we are discussing today, the extension on 1 March, is not the Twm last October. Things have been added, it's gotten heavier. It is also evident from the signing by the SGP, for example, of Mr Nicolaï's motion which was tabled last Friday and adopted by the majority of this House this afternoon, even with a vote more than the Janssen motion adopted in October. So there's something there. And the Minister said it wasn't planned for three months. The Cabinet wanted a year, the Council of State wanted six months, the House of Representatives wanted three months. And the VWS Minister said at the time: it is a good thing that the First Chamber has no right of amendment, otherwise it would have been one and a half months. I don't think it's based on anything. I asked you to. But let's go, I'll give him his outlet in the tension he's under. But it wasn't, of course. This Chamber looks very state-lawly at what is needed, even in times of crisis. But this Twm is temporary, but as a child in primary school that was still called, "lower school" I spent four out of six years in a temporary emergency room. I remember that very well. And it wasn't until years later that those premises were demolished, so... Well, nothing as temporary as something called "temporary," but still, due to necessity, appears to exist longer. Mr. Chairman. The modality 10, 6bis, I think is the option of preference. Hence my signature under Mrs De Boer's motion. Finally, I have one question that has not been answered by the Minister, namely my proposal to use the Twm as a legal basis as a rule, now that we have had to deal twice with the PCR test and with the curfew, with a judicial remedy and a court of law which has said: why did you not use the Twm? So my proposal was: use the Twm as a legal basis if possible; and if not, choose that it should be different, then consult with the States General in advance, so that we know why and so that we do not have to feel surprised by it. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to a second-term reply from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u238	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for their reply and Minister De Jonge for his commitment to share with us, before 1 June next, the scenarios that may arise, assuming that the pandemic phase is moving into the endemic phase, and to share with us what this means for the legislative process. An endemic phase with many uncertainties. Part of these scenarios is therefore the question of how to mitigate those uncertainties. I can imagine anything. For example, I mentioned this morning what it means if we are going to shape a test society or if we are going to have to vaccinate the population on a large scale every year. I'm not going to fill this out now. I assume this will be part of those scenarios. I had asked if the Minister had understood correctly that these parts are part of it. Again, they are just examples. The Minister is no longer present to answer this directly, but I assume that this clarification of my question will come to him through the report and that he will take it with him. I'll just have the motion for a second. Of course, I await the Minister's appreciation, but from what I said this morning, I think it is clear that my group is not in favour of one of the modalities mentioned. However, it seems to me to be careful to discuss the motion with my group anyway. I assume we're going to vote on the motion on Tuesday, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u240	That's what I'm assuming, unless the Chamber decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u241	Okay. In any case, it is a request on my part to do so on Tuesday, if it is possible for the author to do so. I just read through the motion. Mrs De Boer specifically indicated: I am talking about modality 10, and that is proposal 6a. But it's very confusing to have to take that out of the motion. I see her nodding yes. Then I know what I am going to submit to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u242	Then it's probably in the Acts, too. Thanks to Mrs De Bruijn. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. The motion tabled by Mrs De Boer is also supported by my group. It is a slightly different wording of a motion which I myself had already considered. We were just talking about the pandemic going to an endemie. What consequences does this have for the legislative process, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman just asked. By this she meant the substantive legislative path. Once again, I would like to give the Minister the following. Times change. We first had six months of emergency regulations. Then we've got six months of that Twm. Actually, we're in a new phase now. At that time, we decided in a hurry to take decisions on the legal form of this Twm, so to speak, without any debate. It's time to take another look at that. How beautiful is it when a Minister of Justice promises to do so, so I have also understood the commitment that the message we have put in this motion is in his trusted hands to leave it with the House of Representatives later on? It is a new House of Representatives, as stated in the motion. This means that we are entering a new phase and also have a new Lower House. How good is it then to uphold that rule of law and to guarantee the position of the States-General, including with regard to the extension of that law? I heard the minister say, "I'm neutral." Well, how lovely, because that means judgment room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u244	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the VWS Minister, who has already left the Chamber for the substantive and understanding response to my question about the churches. They are on the minister's retina, as he has said. I would also very much like to call on the Minister of Honor to continue the consultations with the churches, as has often been the case, with a view also to possible relaxations. Can the Minister of Honor say how this consultation with the churches is currently taking shape and is going on? Move it! Move it! The SGP did not support the Janssen motion at the time. Our considerations in this regard have not changed in principle either. At the same time, time obviously does its job. The restrictions take a long time and become stricter and heavier. Then it is logical that we should now lean against a heavier parliamentary role than a scaling-down. In this sense, I do not rule out the possibility that the SGP could call for a heavier role for the Senate in introducing new, far-reaching measures. As an example, I mentioned our support for the NICOLAI motion concerning curfew. For the rest, of course, I am also very curious to see what the announced discussion between a neutral minister and the House of Representatives will bring about. Finally. Something has already been said about the Minister's upcoming book. I have not been able to read it, but I think it is above all an achievement that the Minister has time at all with all his responsibilities. Chapeau, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u246	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Minister and his colleague from VWS for their reflections and answers to the questions. Mr. Chairman. It's a two-faced debate. One is about the substance of covid, which my colleague Mr Van der Voort will talk about, and the other is about the role of the Chamber. In the first term, I have argued for a roll-on-roll performance in this house. This also includes measures, accepting that a conflict with the House of Representatives is not fruitful, recognising the primacy of the House of Representatives and not extending it further. Mr. Chairman. We can, of course, take part in the debate with Mr Nicolaï on the basis of future measures, the way in which they are based and the legal basis on which they are taken, but we will now have to deal with the existing instruments. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, a motion for a resolution has also been adopted. I don't know how we're gonna put it all together. There's a Janssen motion, there's a Nicolai motion, there's a De Boer motion now. We're gonna see. We did not support the NICOLAI motion because I think it is an unworkable route, but we will hear what the Minister will do with it. I myself would not find it fruitful to continue the old discussion on the old basis. Mr. Chairman. Why do I say that? Because we're in the middle of a pandemic. I thought the Minister was right to point that out at some point. We're fighting the virus. We have to win that fight. We all play our own part in that. The Minister has also indicated that he wishes to serve in the various positions of the Chamber and to convey the position expressed here. I'm confident that's what he wants to do. Perhaps he can achieve something, but with the new Chamber, because that will not happen in the existing Chamber. I would actually think it's a bad picture for the public if... we all had the word "proportional" for in the mouth on Friday. I think that is also true of us: our role in this debate must also be proportionate. I wouldn't wish for an escalation. There is a fine statement: between the lofty and the ridiculous lies often only one step. We have to watch for that. I think we have moved forward in this debate. The step to the ridiculous can be avoided with the De Boer motion. I'll study that motion. It speaks of a different modality and a new Chamber, and that in itself is a good angle, I think. But I would like us not to go on an escalating road, because then we will come back to that expression. Reading when the minister is natural, he will know that that statement is Napoleon's. He returned from the Russian campaign, defeated, and said to his envoy in Warsaw: du sublime au ridicule n'y a qu'un pas. Between the lofty and the ridiculous lies only one step. Mr. Chairman. I think that the role that the Chamber deserves will eventually be rediscovered. And I do hope that the hairdressers will open, because it is high time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u248	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I call Mr Van der Voort of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u249	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank the Ministers for answering the questions. I recognise a number of themes in this debate today. The first is the social perspective, which is important to many of the groups here. I understand from the VWS Minister that it is intended that the role of others who can advise the government on this matter is increasingly, or at least to a large extent, looked at. However, it is not quite clear to me whether this is an intention or whether there will also be a more formal role for, for example, a MET or EMT or whatever letters you want to indicate to it, so that an informed consideration of the effects of measures can be made. That is what the Segers motion from the House of Representatives agrees with, because it deals with recovery plans in which these kinds of considerations must also be taken into account. And then again, I think, they follow this Chamber's proposal to make scenarios. We have also been promised that they will come. The other issue that has been raised is communication. I found the response of the VWS minister somewhat limited. I understand that he will do his best to be even clearer about what is meant in today's press conferences and in the next.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We would like to see a sound basis for action in all kinds of ways, which citizens can also find and recognise. We would also like them to have a more in-depth discussion with the government on why all kinds of measures are needed. So I ask you again: how is this going to be shaped in the coming period? Will proposals from all kinds of groups in the country, which sometimes contain quite useful elements, get a proper place? Finally, two questions have not yet been answered as far as I am concerned. The first is: what about the European pandemic policy? What elements of this are and are not in the process of being implemented or perhaps already being implemented? Finally, I would like to say that I am not entirely reassured by an exit strategy. I haven't actually heard an exit strategy. I haven't heard that an exit strategy is actually in the making. I think we all need that. That didn't take away all my concerns today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u250	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u251	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do this term differently than usual. The debate itself goes beyond the Twm as far as I am concerned. It's about the relationship between the two chambers and the government, so three parties. Since we're going from Novum to Novum, I thought I'd see if a unified meeting might be a creative solution. But that was soon a dead end. I think that the route the government has now proposed through the Minister is worth taking. So I'll be done with that soon. What I want to do is to see if art can have a slightly different effect on my fellow chamber members and the minister. My colleague Jopie Nooren read a poem by Tanja Helderman in the group this morning. A very short poem, I say to the chairman. I'm going to do that now, because the arts are already having such a hard time, and also in honor of my farewell colleague. That poem is called "don't give in." Let's take care of everything with love. No, gentle healers don't last. But rest yourself with hope and trust and rest yourself with courage and understanding. Don't yield to weakness, don't yield to anger, don't bow to bluntness and offer counterweight. Let us fight everything with love because nothing shines the dark more than the light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u252	Thank you, Mr Recourt. That was very nice. I would like to give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u253	Mr. Chairman. It is striking that the word 'exit strategy' has actually only fallen at a very late stage. That was mentioned by the colleague of D66. There has been no exit strategy. It hasn't really been on the table. In fact, it was not mentioned by the Minister as such either. He's reported a number of cases. He has said, for example, that we are not yet in a phase of relaxation. In the first instance, we have found that the basis for the policy as it stands is in any case seriously undermining. We must prevent this from happening very strongly. Offer people a perspective. That was the theme, partly focused on the exit strategy. I announced in the first term that I would like to table a motion on this matter. That is what I am doing on the basis of the text that was also adopted in the first term. I'd like to read the motion. The: Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that all necessary measures under the Temporary Law covid-19 can be taken to combat the corona pandemic;]] [[considers that measures should be reduced more rapidly where possible;]] [[Considering that vaccination, rapid testing and the creation of a social "bubble" offer prospects for a way out of the current lockdown;]] [[calls on the government to present on 21 March 2021 a liberation and recovery plan based on the principle of being able to start up normal daily life throughout the Netherlands within two months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-AL]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u254	I've written a few more things, so I'm about to hand in the correct version.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u255	That's a little tricky, I guess. I'm gonna go check the Registry and see if that's workable. You really need to file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u256	Yeah, yeah, I just put it on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u257	Oh, you'll give her to the Registry later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u258	I take it you don't want her like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u259	Fine, no problem. Is the submission of the motion sufficiently supported? That's the case. Then the motion is part of the debate under 35526, letters AL. Go ahead, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u260	Mr. Chairman. The Minister also indicated on behalf of the cabinet that there would be a plan for 1 June and the demissive phase, a new term for me. But for example, self-testing is not involved in this. We heard some figures, which at least gave me a new light. For example, the Minister mentioned 35 million rapid tests on the shelf. The question then is: why are they still on the shelf and can't we just use them faster? It was also mentioned that there are currently 100,000 infectious agents. So that means there's 16,900,000 uninfected. That could also provide an accelerated way out. In any case, Britain and Greece announced very clearly yesterday measures to accelerate. So they can see possibilities. I call on the government, on this basis, to take measures that come out of the temporary law and accelerate the phasing-out of measures where possible, to vaccinate, to test too quickly and to create a social bubble to get out of the current lockdown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u261	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I'll see if the messengers can take your motion, because then she'll be multiplied. This is important for colleagues and for the Minister to appreciate the motion later. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u262	Mr. Chairman. Today we have heard a lot from the Minister of VWS, but about the role of the First Chamber in emergency legislation, Minister De Jonge managed to escape himself as a Houdini, as a true escape artist, and to pass this on to the Minister of Justice and Security. We didn't really have the impression that the Minister of VWS had missed the First Chamber for the past four months. The point remains, of course, that during the debate in October in the Lower House, the cabinet skated a state-law skate by not accepting the Heink amendment. As a result, the House of Representatives put the First Chamber out of play with a kind of pre-emptive strike. That is why we also tabled the Janssen motion in October to address this. It's accepted, too. The NICOLAI motion was adopted today, with a similar approach. Mr. Chairman. We have almost a day's work in the First Chamber to deal with urgent corona repair legislation, Friday with curfew. As far as we're concerned, we can add a repair bill to that. We therefore call on the cabinet to put this state-law slipper right quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u263	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group, but only after Mrs Bikker has spoken on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, Mr Van Hattem and I came out without bloodshed. I would like to thank this Minister and, of course, the Minister of the United States of America for their reply. As always, the Minister of VWS spoke with an admirable amount of energy, joy and enthusiasm and yet also commitment, precisely on this approach to the pandemic. There is this appreciation on behalf of my group and also for the Minister for Justice and Security, especially for the constitutional perspective, on which we have had a more extensive exchange of views. But Friday has already laid the foundations for a good exchange of views. I would like to thank the government for taking forward the outline of perspective, because that is what is needed, and that is what we hear from all sides of this Chamber, but I think it is in society as well. These are scenarios for how we can continue to tackle the fight, but also give social life a better follow-up, now that so many people are in the crinkle zone. That is precisely why this wide-ranging consideration is so important. In doing so, I would like to ask the Minister explicitly to take that up in a legal context. How does the process get a follow-up from a democratic point of view, just when we outline those scenarios? When will the Lower House and the Upper House be involved? How does the Cabinet view this? This prevents us from repeating this type of debate once every three months. The point is that we also find a way of working in this area. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for his commitment to enter into talks with the House of Representatives, particularly with regard to the relationship between the two Chambers and with regard to the cabinet and the decisions before us. The Minister has made it clear that he is going to do so with the new Chamber. I can just imagine running into each other, Minister. Not from that point of view, but for the sake of clarity in this Chamber: I assume that the Minister intends to do so before the next deadline of this Temporary Law measures covid-19 expires on 1 June. I would like to have that a little more precise, even for the feedback to this house. Having said that, I look forward to the Minister's last reply at the moment. I must say once again that the fight against this pandemic always starts with our own behaviour. That's what it turns out to be, even when we hear what the minister said about quarantine. Let us continue to call on each other to do so, even when we are dealing here with the question of how we can get out of this situation. It's really starting with ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u265	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was afraid I'd have to speak my turn, but fortunately that didn't happen. I have a number of comments to make in the second term. The first deadline called for a better understanding of the indicators. This is also the subject of the Van Hattem c.s motion. which was adopted in the course of the examination of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. We still don't know exactly how the cabinet intends to implement that motion. So I'm gonna call again to come up with that as soon as possible. Minister de Jonge referred earlier to the road map corona measures. This roadmap presents certain factors for the level of risk, but does not actually say enough about the indicators needed to make a clear assessment of each measure. So we would also like to have more clarity on that aspect. Then I come back to the discussion about the Wbbbg, the Extraordinary Law on Civil Authority. The filing of the continuing law, which was repealed yesterday by the cabinet, had a certain reason. According to the Wbbbg, this had to happen immediately after the royal decree had been taken. This was necessary in order to give force to the provisions in force. In Decision No. 4191 of 22 January 2021, to which the Minister referred, is set out in Article 8 (2): This arrangement expires at 4.30 a.m. on 10 February 2021. Then it is also questionable whether this Continuing Act was necessary to provide a legal basis for the Royal Decree from the time of its introduction on 22 January. Or was it necessary to have this Continuing Act as a legal basis at least from 10 February? And what does that mean, on the one hand, for the corona fines imposed on 22 January and, on the other hand, for curfew fines based on this Royal Decree? Can the Minister clarify that? After all, it is not for nothing that this Continuing Act has been submitted by the Cabinet. The Wbbbg also asks for that basis. It is therefore not possible for a KB to enter into force without a legal basis underneath. I just want to make that clear. It must be clear whether those curfew fines have a sufficient legal basis. And so we have it, if I understand correctly, at least about 24,000 curfew fines imposed. Furthermore, it has to be clear whether this KB could continue beyond 10 February now that the Continuing Act has been repealed by the Cabinet. Then I come to what is on the agenda today, the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u267	Mr. Nicolaï. That's ten. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u268	I have listened with interest to the fact that this is a very technical legal question. But I do not fully understand the problem raised by Mr Van Hattem. Because we voted in favour of that law on Friday, didn't we put a basis under curfew with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u269	I doubt that. In my view, this retroactive effect does not apply. I believe that this law, as it was adopted on Friday, applies from the moment it was published in the Official Journal. I do not believe that there is any retroactive effect on the fines that have been imposed so far. If so, I would like to hear it from the Minister, because I am concerned that we should at least be clear about this. If those fines have been wrongly imposed, the judge must also judge on appeal, at least we know where we stand. Now the Continuing Act has been repealed, a law that was necessary on the basis of the Wbbbg. If that law cannot provide the legal basis for the royal decree that was there and thus for the curfew fines, then it is doubtful whether the curfew fines can be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u270	Then again the question. Article 2 of the law that we passed on Friday night simply says that the decision to introduce that curfew is supposed to be based on the law that we have adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u271	Yeah, I'm just wondering if it could apply retroactively. Those previous measures were based on the Wbbg and not on this law. If a person has committed an offence on the basis of a law that has not yet been passed, then the question is whether it can apply. That's the question underneath. Now that this law has been repealed, it is only a question of whether with that retroactive effect the entire legal basis under the Royal Decree can still be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u272	And that's the question you're asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u273	To the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u274	So he's gonna answer that question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u275	I think it is very important that we get a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u276	That is why Mr Van Hattem asked that question. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u277	I would therefore like to make that clear. Mr. Chairman. Extending the Temporary Law measures covid-19. As indicated, the PVV voted against this emergency act in October because it was not proportionate. We can now see that there are still a lot of measures under this law that affect entrepreneurs in particular. That is why we are asking the Minister whether perhaps a little more clarity can be provided. Apparently, given what is being leaked to the press about tonight's press conference, something is being done for the contact professions, but a lot of shopkeepers and catering entrepreneurs are still up. The question to the cabinet is therefore: can not much more be done than what is happening now? Can we not do much more to relax responsibly? That is what we would like to hear, because if it is now decided to extend this law, the perspective for our entrepreneurs is very difficult. The small self-employed must be able to survive in this country and not be destroyed by these measures. So once again, we voted against the bill at the time, and it would be a waste forever if this bill were ultimately at the expense of our entrepreneurs. We have to watch for that. So again the question: what perspective is and remains for the entrepreneurs? So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u278	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. For the record, the motion for a resolution by Mr De Boer and others. (35526, letter AK) has since been co-signed by the member Van Rooijen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u279	On the motion tabled by Mrs De Boer, which has also been signed by a number of other groups, including mine. I would like to hear from the Minister in a moment. In the event that the Minister gives a ruling to the Chamber, he is asked to discuss this with the House of Representatives and then to report to the House of Representatives. At what time could that take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u280	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u281	Mr. Chairman. I hope you will forgive me again for referring briefly to patriotic poetry, inspired by what Mr Recourt did. We need to realise that one of the professions we have always said is that our measures are also aimed at making the work of this profession possible and lighter is the concern. When I heard Mr Recourt, I was reminded of that. I think we are doing it to an important extent. I was also immediately reminded of Sister Immaculata, you know her who has been feeding, changing and washing for 34 years crippled, old people. The poem about Sister Immaculata is about the people who always do it anonymously in modesty and silence. I advise every member to continue reading the poem himself, because after that there will be a bit of a twist on the people who are always asking for attention for themselves. At least that poem came to my mind when I heard Mr Recourt. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the questions and motions. I regret that Mr Backer, who quoted Napoleon, will not be present when I conclude with a quote of a somewhat younger French greatness: De Gaulle. However, Mr Backer is a few years older than me, so I understand that. Mr President, if you don't mind, I'll just go by the Members and discuss the motions in that way. Then I come to the conclusion with a small piece of constitutional explanation about the Continuing Act. I can be very clear about Mrs De Boer's motion: she gets a ruling from the Chamber. I now respond to Mrs De Boer, Mr Nicolaï and Mrs Bikker. If the confettislingers have descended into the new Parliament, I am suggesting that somewhere in the first half of April we ask the Chamber to put this item on the agenda almost weekly in one of the next Corona debates, as you know. The debate, which will undoubtedly follow in the Chamber, will then have a kind of effect. State law would mean a letter to your Chamber. That impact should not be too extensive, because otherwise I would be doing it on behalf of the cabinet, perhaps giving a colouring again, and that is precisely not the intention. That would mean that at least in April 2021 we should have clarity on how the new House of Representatives thinks about this. I would, of course, like to make a reservation, which is two-fold. Firstly, it is up to the House of Representatives to determine its agenda. Then there's the other reservation. I sincerely hope that we will not be at the same serious stage that we had almost a year ago when even Parliament had to suspend its sessions for a moment. Anyway, let's not assume that. That is the first motion (35526, letter AK). So she gets judgment room. Mr Janssen still cracked some critical notes about words, but they are from October 2020. My speech was a little communicative with Mr Nicolaï's speech. We are, of course, still further and further. I hope that has made it sufficiently clear that there is not so much a cabinet that became Saul's, Paul's, but more of a situation where we are more able to find the debate with each other, despite the enormous seriousness and pressure of the pandemic. And in reply to Mr Janssen, I say: yes, the Twm.................................................................................................................................................................................................... The fact that I initially informed the Council of State last week to do the curfew in a specific law was not so much motivated by this law, but by the fact that I thought: "Well, it is of course a very special measure, and it should be separate, also in view of the history of the Twm, which was not intended to include such measures." But in the meantime there is also a certain development in thinking. My thoughts about this last week have also been explained to your Chamber last week. Mrs Bruijn-Wezeman, as well as others, have asked questions about scenarios and others. Mr De Jonge will come back to that. I also do not think that it makes any sense to go into this in detail now. The same applies to the issue of exit strategy raised by Mr Van der Voort. If I may, Mr President, I should like to come straight to Mr Raven's motion (35526, letter AL). The cabinet naturally sympathizes with the idea that we should gradually move towards an exit strategy. That is also a bit along the lines of what Mr Van der Voort said. That exit strategy should look at how we move forward from the point of view of vaccination rates, the degree of overall immunity, developments in public life and further international developments. But it is a bit too concrete to say: 21 March 2021 and within two months a plan that the Netherlands will start up normal daily life again. I'm looking for Mr. Raven in the room. There is no reluctance to do so, but that is where the enormous unpredictability plays a role. No matter how you turn it or turn it, that plays huge unpredictability to the virus and its mutants still play a role. It plays less because we now have more opportunities to do things about it. Mr Van der Voort will be able to testify to that. We now have more opportunities to get a hold of it at least slightly. But it is now being asked: within three weeks a plan and within two months everything must be started. If we did that, we would really raise expectations that cannot be met. So I really shouldn't recommend this motion. Now I'm gonna stop, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u282	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u283	Yes, Mr President, I remember my question. It's about the Twm as the primary base. I did not refer so much to last week when the Minister said: yes, we had tried something else first. I was concerned with the two issues that we discussed in two readings: the PCR test and the Wbbbg. A different basis was chosen than the Twm. There may be reasons for this, but my question was twofold. Firstly, I hear the Minister's undertaking: yes, the Twm is the primary basis. But there was a second part of my question for a commitment. The cabinet can also choose not to. There can be good reasons for that, I say in advance. Is the government prepared, if it chooses not to, to consult with the Chambers in advance with the States General? Or does she at least want to indicate why this is happening? That way, we don't have to deal with surprises afterwards why it doesn't happen. And is the government willing to use as a starting point and as a rule: Twm where it can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u284	The last one: yes. That's the first thing, I'll say. The first thing that is then the second thing is: we will, of course, justify it if we say that it has become a different choice. You saw that, at least in that respect, we are also very much looking at how the Council of State is helping us in that regard. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of points. I assume that I have said enough, as I say to Mrs Bikker, Mr Nicolaï and Mrs De Boer, about the motion with letters AK. I am saying that to the extent that there would be any interruption. Mr Van Dijk asked about the consultation with the churches. That still happens about every two weeks. Last week we had a discussion with each other on the slight unrest that arose for a moment. Last Friday morning, in consultation with the churches, I asked in particular whether they would also like to draw attention to young people from their role. The same day there was a response from the PKN. High school students and schools can use the church buildings. At the moment, that point is being examined and taken into account by the Cabinet. Just to be safe, I'd like to say the following. Mr Janssen was still a little concerned about it, but I would like to congratulate Mr Van Dijk: income-wise there is no point in advertising the book, because copyright will, in any case, go to a charity to be set up in consultation with the Prime Minister. The book was written in the lost hours of the night. Otherwise, it would result in additional earnings which could in turn give rise to a parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u285	I was just trying to get rid of that misunderstanding. That was not my idea when the Minister said it. I just had to laugh because Professor Voermans started with that and reminded me of that. I didn't suspect the Secretary of State for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u286	There are all kinds of differences. My hairstyle, for example, is completely different. And not everything needs to be in the microphone, Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer, who has now left, referred to the issue of permanent role. That's what I agree with. There's one of the stress points in that too. I have already replied to Mr Van der Voort on the issue of exit strategy. The same applies to EU pandemic policy. Hugo de Jonge will certainly come back to that within a reasonable time. Mrs Bikker spoke about the rule of law. I think we should take this with us when we come back to it in the debate with the House of Representatives on Mrs De Boer's motion, or in connection with Mr Janssen's and Mrs De Boer's motion. We will then discuss how we are going to dress this up in a state of law for the citizen. I think this is going to be a really important point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Van Hattem, on the Continuation Act. I hope that you will not cause me any difficulty in saying that I am still losing it and I am showing you how the areas of state law are structured. There is a Law extraordinary powers of civil authority, also abbreviated as Wbbbg. This law has an Article 8 (1) and an Article 8 (3). They have not yet entered into force, as the law provides. They will enter into force by a royal decree. That's a bit of technique that we need to keep in mind. That law is already there, but it's about what has to happen to make him work. Article 8 (3) is just what, in popular terms, is about curfew. Well, then you're actually gonna have to pull some kind of lever from a royal decision. In itself, that's not unusual. If a law has been passed by both chambers, it must also go to the Official Journal with a royal decree. There was an urgent debate with the House of Representatives on 21 January: we are going to take that royal decision. In my statement, 'if you do not want to do so in a majority, you must say so and then we will not do so', the House did not say that it does not want to do so. It's still the cabinet's responsibility, but I'm gonna say this for chronology. So pay attention: on Friday 22 January, that royal decree was signed by the Prime Minister and, of course, by the King. Please note that this led to the entry into force of Article 8 (3). Well, that'll work. Then there will be a ministerial arrangement. You can look at me for that. It then explains what that curfew will look like, because Article 8 (3) does not state that the curfew would last from 9 p.m. to 04.30 p.m. No, of course it had to be in that arrangement. This is all January 22nd. So the curfew is legally and parliamentaryly democratically properly put into effect. Then the Wbbbg, the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, says that at some point, preferably as soon as possible, you must go to the Chambers, to the States General, to allow the curfew to continue. The word "continuing" already says it: it "lasts" already. Then there will be a treatment, first in the Lower House and then in the Upper Chamber. Most people will remember that this law has also been dealt with in writing in the House of Representatives and that it has been debated, but that aside. There the law was passed; it was said in my mind on Thursday before the recess week, which for most of us was not a recess week. Today is February 23rd. So it was on Thursday, February 11th. At that time the Continuing Act was in the Lower House, but he was not yet in the Upper Chamber. In addition, there must be and should be published a Royal Decree for a continuing law. So the law didn't apply at all. In the meantime, the royal decree of 22 January was still in force. So the curfew just continued on that base. Then, Tuesday, February 16, last week, there was a judgment in the morning in summary proceedings of an amenities court. Before that judgment was enforced, the court said in the afternoon: we are suspending the operation of that ruling. Which means the curfew was still working. It could not be put into effect by that judgment of the provisional supply court. That would have been temporary, because it was only a provisional provision, but this aside. Mr President, I hope you are still with me. I imagine it's hard for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u287	I'm in on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u288	Good. Now here's what's happening. It is 16 February and the cabinet has said: we believe that this basis is right. You have heard me say this a number of times, but I am not going to do anything like that. The interests are far too great for that. So, just to be safe, there's the emergency law. The Second Chamber and you, the First Chamber, have said that they actually think this legal basis is better. We're not going to talk about that right now, but that law was passed on 19 February. Meanwhile, the current curfew continued. On 19 February, I told you that I wanted to get the law into the Official Journal as soon as possible. So you first publish the Royal Decree for the Emergency Act. That's signed. This is then published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. At that time, the King and the Prime Minister immediately took the royal decision to withdraw the Royal Decree of 22 January or to withdraw the then ongoing basis for curfew. I've sent you all that message. I can imagine that this whole story does not produce television that people are watching for more than two minutes, but let it be quite clear that on 22 January the curfew was legally decided as it was and that it was introduced on Saturday evening 23 January. The curfew applied on that basis anyway until last Monday, so yesterday. And yesterday, the legal basis of the current ministerial regulation was taken over by the Emergency Act. It's a kind of relay-like comparison, but that sounds a little disrespectful when it comes to a legislative process. That's how it's done. The curfew has thus just run legally throughout that period, which in itself is also common in a clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u289	Thanks to the Minister for this explanation and this answer, but I still wonder a few things. As I indicated in the second term, Article 8 (2) of that Royal Decree, which was adopted on 22 January, stated that this scheme would expire on 10 February 2021 at 04.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u290	That ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u291	Then there must be a new regulation, and then I wonder what the Continuing Act means for this new regulation. Has there been sufficient legal basis after 10 February for curfew measures? Then the second. A short time ago, the Minister said that the new law on the ban on outdoor stays had retroactive effect. I did not find that retroactive force literally in the text of that law. The question therefore remains to what extent the Continuation Act was necessary to form a legal basis for curfew measures. And now that the Continuation Act has been repealed, what are the legal consequences of that? Could this also affect the legitimacy of the curfew fines imposed? The question is also whether there is actually retroactive force in the new emergency law for curfew. Those elements are not quite clear to me yet. I would like to have a further explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u292	I really mean this only well, but Mr Van Hattem is still confusing a few things. I think he's reading the ministerial arrangement. You have the royal decree; that belongs to the King and the Prime Minister. That royal decision must be taken in order to bring into force Article 8 (3) of the Wbbbg, the Special Powers Civil Authority Act. That happened on Friday, January 22nd. An hour later, I know that there was not exactly a ministerial settlement signed by me, and that is its effect. It says "I'm just gonna name what bakery boys like..." No, that's not true. But people who need help are excluded, just like firefighters and people like that. That's the effect. And it also says from what time until what time it is, so from 9:00 to 04:30. That ministerial arrangement was extended by 10 February. There has been a new ministerial arrangement, signed by me, which has gone through again. So it was going to run from February 10th to March 3, I say out of my mind. In the meantime, last Friday, your room said, "Okay."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u293	Stay close to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u294	Sorry. We have deprived the old royal decree of its effect. So the curfew simply applied, if you say it in simple language, on the basis of the first royal decree until yesterday, Monday. And the curfew has been valid under the emergency law since yesterday, Monday, ten minutes later, something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u295	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u296	Yeah, finally. Then we can draw the conclusion from this explanation by the Minister, for which we are grateful, that for the royal decree as it applied to the publication in the Official Journal and the re-entry into force etc. of that new temporary law banning outdoor stays, so the new curfew law, was sufficient legal basis for those decisions. Can we conclude that the repeal of that Continuing Act cannot have a legal effect on that basis? Is there a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u297	I had to answer that part of Mr Van Hattem's question, namely what is going on with the Continuing Act. The Continuing Act has the intention to say at a certain point........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then tonight I would have taken the moped to the State Gazette to publish the Continuing Act. As of tomorrow, not the royal decree but the Continuing Law had become the basis. But that was not necessary, because all this time the royal decree was in force. That was replaced at some point by the emergency law and the royal decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u298	Then we'll cross that off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u299	Mr President, I think I have discussed most of the issues. This is all it was. I had found a very nice quote from Charles de Gaulle, but Mr. Backer left, perhaps when he heard that name. We're in a tough time. That is why I very much appreciate that we are always able to consult both chambers quickly, as I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u300	Mr. Backer's coming back in as fast as he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u301	This is a really tough time for everyone in the Netherlands. Mr Van Hattem asked, but I am not going to anticipate the measures announced in an hour and a half. We realize that it is difficult for everyone, but I will stick to it and end with the compliment that the Dutch people keep hope and put the choices together to get through this crisis. Charles de Gaulle said: la fin de l'espoir est le commencement de la mort. Let's really hold on to that hope. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u302	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-12.u303	This brings us to the end of this debate. I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Can you agree with that? That's the case. I shall now suspend the meeting for dinner break until 6:45 p.m.
