ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	We are going straight to the two-minute debate on arms exports policy. I am the first speaker to speak to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The SP believes that the criteria for arms exports should be applied much more strictly. A good example of this is Egypt. The government believes that weapons can be exported there. I believe that you should not do so now, because the Egyptian regime is guilty of serious human rights violations. The government has also said, if it is suspected, that you should not export arms there. In jargon, it's called "presumption of denial." I would ask the Minister to reconsider this very carefully. I have three motions to encourage him to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas arms export licences are granted to Egypt;]] [[noting that Egypt is involved in various armed conflicts in the Middle East and is also pursuing a repressive policy against journalists and political opponents;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that the military goods to be exported may be used for internal repression or human rights violations;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from granting arms export licences to Egypt until further notice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-349]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	My second motion concerns the government's intention to exclude the Navy from the review for Egypt. That's a smart trick, but I don't agree. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the regime of Egypt is guilty of human rights violations and that arms exports to Egypt should not take place for that reason;]] [[Believes that it is undesirable to exclude the Navy from this, since the Navy is part of the Egyptian armed forces;]] [[calls on the Government not to make exceptions for parts of the armed forces when reviewing an arms export licence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-350]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Finally, dual use, the fact that a product can be used for two purposes, both civil and military. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that arms exports with a value above EUR 2 million should be notified to the Chamber, but that this does not apply to dual-use goods (materials which can be used both in civil and military terms);]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the notification of dual-use goods with a value of EUR 2 million to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-351]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. In the committee debate there was extensive talk of arms exports, of dual use and military goods. 32% of jobs in the defence and security sector are targeted at R&D, leading to high levels of knowledge development and product innovation. Here are some nice economic activities for both the military and civil sectors. Many SMEs are suppliers of companies that need an arms export licence. In addition to radars, these companies also make other products, such as aluminium and paints, chips, workbenches and the OV-chipkaart. For example, many civil aviation and space products can also be used for missile programmes. It is good to be aware that companies that need export licences make a positive contribution to employment and also generate high-quality jobs in the region of the Netherlands, such as in Drenthe and Twente. I therefore have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in business manuals the Ministry uses the term "export of strategic goods' instead of "weapon export';]] [[Whereas strategic goods cover both military and dual-use goods;]] [[Whereas dual-use goods with an export value of EUR 12 billion are a much larger part of the export control policy than military goods with a value of around EUR 700 million;]] [[Whereas increasing technological innovation has led to an increasing number of goods falling within the scope of dual-use goods;]] [[Whereas the term "weapon" does not reflect the use of most of the growing quantity of dual-use goods;]] [[calls on the Minister to replace the term "weapon export" or "weapon export policy" with the "export policy) of strategic goods,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Klink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-352]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	I think this is some kind of euphemism that the government is asking to use concealing language. For, apart from the amounts mentioned by Mr Klink, these are dual-use goods, which can also be used in military use, which can also be used to kill people. Why would the VVD want to cover that up? Why not just stick to the current jargon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	I also call it 'the export of strategic goods'. The term "strategic goods" includes military goods. So we're really talking about guns. That's really the end product. A very large proportion of these are dual-use goods, which are both military and civil. But it doesn't do any right to call all that "weapons." They are strategic products, in which the Netherlands really is a big player. It really is a sector of around EUR 12 billion. So it's called something it's not. They're strategic goods. These include military goods and dual-use goods. So call it "strategic goods."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. This is a two-minute debate, so I want to prevent us from having a very extensive discussion about this. Very briefly and finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	Does Mr Klink recognise that dual-use goods can eventually also be used in military use and that we must therefore check closely on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	I don't want to take anything away from having to be properly checked. That's just what the rules are for. That remains the case, which is why, in this context too, it is strategic goods which include military goods and dual-use goods. This is covered by the export control policy of strategic goods. I'm saying call the beast by the name. That's what's done; call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	I think this is actually a very good motion. I think it is very good that Mr Klink is in favour of the defence industry in the Netherlands and that he is also giving dual-use goods a different name in this way. So I'd like to sign the motion if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	A brief interruption by Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	I don't think it's a good motion at all. I'm used to people filing motions to solve certain issues or... Well, you can come up with a variety of things. I'm trying to listen carefully to what's being said here. It's not like it's in the name, is it? Then there is a thought behind it and the VVD hopes that it has certain implications. My question is: what does the VVD hope will come out of this motion, which has not yet been settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	What I hope and wish to do with this motion is to talk rationally about strategic goods, to which, of course, an export control policy applies, and that this does not receive a particular label. I can see that in other sectors too. I have a background in agriculture myself. Then something is framed in a certain way, which is not the order of the day at all. A whole frame is sometimes placed about dairy farmers, which is simply not on the agenda. Here I see exactly the same thing happening. We are talking about 12 billion in dual-use goods. It's about 700 million military assets. The sum of the total is: strategic goods. I'm just saying, name the bug. They're strategic goods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	Finally and briefly on this point, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u16	I do not use my right to speak later, but if a motion is tabled on such a Wednesday, I think that is a good reason to ask for it. It is implied that, if you table this motion, there will be more rational talk about arms exports. Where does the VVD get the idea that there's no rational conversation about it? Do you realize that if you do this, you might be pre-sorting by other export criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr Klink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u18	We certainly shouldn't find it in there. We simply have these eight export criteria of the European Union. I said this in the committee debate: let us implement these eight criteria in the same way within the European Union. Let's be happy about that, too. You will also be pleased that, at European level, we are in line with these eight export criteria. That shouldn't be compromised. Calling something a weapon that's not a weapon is what you shouldn't want. It is a strategic asset, which is important for our economy, with some EUR 12 billion turnover, of which many SMEs are suppliers. It's just not like they're making guns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mrs. Belhaj, this will be your third interruption on a motion. You have had a debate. I have now also given room to go into this motion. I would therefore like to give the floor to Mr Van Haga. A point of order, Mrs Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yes, there are no restrictions on the number of interruptions. I do not use my speaking time. This is my way of getting a clear picture of what's going on here. There is no answer to my question. My question was very simple. It was said: "This motion creates the opportunity to conduct the conversation rationally"...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u22	What implication is behind that? Who doesn't talk about this rationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u23	It has been your choice not to use your speaking time. I do not know whether Mr Klink would like to comment on this, finally. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u24	I believe that this question has just been asked and I have already answered it. It is said about products that are not military goods, that they kill people. That is simply not the case. They're dual-use goods. That's considerably different from military property. I do not think Mrs Belhaj wants to see the difference between military goods and dual-use goods. Together they are strategic goods. That is why we have the framework of those eight criteria. Let's just stick to that and let's call the whole thing what it says in the manuals: strategic goods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. The interest of the Netherlands finds it strange that our beautiful defence industry has only one real enemy, and that is the Dutch government. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet regularly rejects licences for the export of defence goods, or indicates prior to the application that the licence will not be granted;]] [[noting that other Member States subsequently grant licences for deliveries of the same product from a national supplier;]] [[calls on the Government to strive for a level playing field within the EU in the field of arms exports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-353]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u27	You must distinguish between what Mr Van Haga said in his introduction and what is in his motion. His motion could lead to stricter application of the criteria, which I could very well agree with. Does Mr Van Haga recognise that his motion is two-fold explanatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u28	Absolutely. It is strange that you agree at European level that you have eight criteria and that you then interpret them differently. The Netherlands is now making this stricter. However, in order to achieve a level playing field within the EU, it may indeed be necessary to agree with the whole of the EU that you interpret the criteria in the same way. I recognize that it may be that you're coming out harder than the average is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u29	But would you like to take that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u30	No, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u31	This was my last interruption, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u32	That is fine, but I would like you to speak through the President and to wait until you have the floor. That's what we agreed on here. Finally, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u33	Does Mr Van Haga and his party want us to transfer this policy all the way to Brussels, with which we will have a European arms export policy, which we may have much less to say about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u34	No, absolutely not. The importance of the Netherlands is not to regulate this at all at European level, but it is simply European. If you assume that, you want a level playing field within the EU. That would be much better for our defence industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you. I think Mrs Belhaj had another request. That doesn't concern you, Mr. Van Haga. I think it was more of a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u36	Oh, that's too bad. I was completely honored that Mrs Belhaj would finally make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u37	I understand, I understand, but let's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u38	I have so little speaking time already. Sometimes you get a few pearls thrown at you, but now you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u39	I understand. Mrs. Belhaj, with a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u40	I will do that next time, I say to Mr Van Haga. I had put myself on the list with zero minutes of speaking time. I realized through the small debate, in which you pointed out that it was not the intention to keep this, that I would like to speak anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u41	I understand this is possible if the rest of the Chamber doesn't have a problem with that. I interpret the signals in such a way that there is support for them. And yes, you do have the right to vote in this, Mr. Van Haga. The vote will be taken, so Mrs Belhaj has two minutes to speak. I would ask Members to register in good time if they think this is necessary. I would like to remind you that this two-minute debate is a conclusion to a debate that has already taken place in committee. I call Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr. Chairman. You are absolutely right, but I thought: we had a very good debate in committee, in which everyone also looked for new ways of indicating what 'weapon export' policy is, how we have arranged it with each other and whether the current rules are adequate or perhaps too many. Does industry, for example, get into trouble? Are these eight criteria well thought out, but do we have little insight into the order in which things are maintained? I was actually satisfied with the debate because I thought this was a good start. It was a nice conversation with different angles about how we want to deal with this. Quite apart from the question of whether you are completely ultra-left, I do not know if I can address Mr Van Dijk in this way, whether you are ultra-right or middle-right and have different angles about what you think of weapons, we are trying somewhere in the middle to come up with some kind of good policy. There is now. That's why I was surprised and didn't sign up. That is why I gave a summary of the committee debate. I saw that as a good start to a conversation that would go even further. The motion scared me for a moment because I had the impression that something cosmetic is being done here. Sometimes something cosmetic happens and you change a word, but words are of course our business. Words have a meaning and can have a meaning in the legal sense. If you think you should name things the way you name them and say we shouldn't call them "weapons" anymore, I think that's very naive. Changing words also has the implication that your policies and the legal context change. D66 doesn't want that. I understand the sensitivity to the industry, which says: yes, we understand that you can do horrible things with it, but you can also do horrible things with a pen. But it's been really thought through. In my opinion, the atmosphere in the Chamber is not that we want to ridicule industries that want to export resources that do not have the purpose of serving as weapons. That's not what happens in the Chamber. So I think that motion is a bad idea. Let us name things as they are: they are covered by arms exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you. Then we have come to the end... Mr. Jasper van Dijk, shortly at this point. I think you were pretty much in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u44	I'll be brief. Well, Mrs Belhaj asked me first of all a question about my political profile. I will tell her: the SP is a modern socialist party, which is going to make the Netherlands more fun and better. So I'm gonna take a break from all the adjectives she suggested herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u45	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u46	Can I ask you one more question? Mrs Belhaj embraces the government's policy. But does she recognize that the government could be wrong? I would like to mention, for example, the policy on Egypt, where there are extremely controversial issues, human rights violations. So right now you may not have to send weapons to Egypt for a while, as my motion also asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u47	We also had this discussion in committee. That is where it emerged that we have these eight criteria. In the end, a ministry is given a broader view of whether or not this is covered. At that time the conclusion and the request to the Minister was: that is really strange, because how should we do our job properly? Then how can we test and check whether it has been justified in the end? I think that process is very important. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about it later. Does that lead to further clarification of the eight criteria? And how should that be handled? So I'd rather wait and see if we can sort this out now with your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mr Klink also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u49	Yes. Mrs Belhaj pretends that I want to remove "military" or "weapon" completely. That is not the case. So I also ask Mrs Belhaj whether she acknowledges that we have the next structure. We are talking about military goods and dual-use goods. The collective name is "strategic goods'. That's what it's called in the manuals. That's the structure. Does Mrs. Belhaj recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mrs Belhaj, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u51	Yes, I acknowledge the fact that you are getting from the industry things that are used directly for the defence industry and that there is dual-use. I mean, I don't find all that complicated either. I think it's just crazy to say: yes, but because you can do good things with it, or things in agriculture or whatever, we shouldn't really let it fall under the heading of arms exports. That is why I put the question to Mr Klink. What are we doing here? Who's it uncomfortable for? I've been in touch with people who work in the defence industry. There is no one who stood at my desk crying and said: 'Salima, I think it is so terrible that I am covered by arms export policy; do something about it!' That's never happened before. Let alone ever seeing someone crying from the defense industry at my desk. So I don't recognize this. It always makes me a little alert. Then I think, someone changes a word because it's uncomfortable. No problem has been identified. It doesn't feel like it. No one's crying. And then we're gonna do something that I don't know the implications of. That's why I'm worried about that motion. Actually, I would prefer to go to the Minister's appreciation. If you don't know that yourself, you need to think carefully about whether you want to table that motion at all. The VVD doesn't strike me as a party that says: we don't care what comes under it and if bad things happen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's term. After the suspension, we'll continue with the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u53	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr President, thank you very much. I was asked one more question. Furthermore, I will respond to the motions. Mrs Belhaj asked exactly how we deal with these criteria. She asked that in connection with our deliveries to Egypt. As you know, we look at all these requests on a case-by-case basis. We'll do that carefully. We also indicate why, so the arguments. And we publish all of that in an overview that's on the website. So we are trying to contribute as much as possible to a situation in which everyone, and, of course, primarily Members of Parliament, can, on the basis of the considerations that we give questions, make comments. We're trying to do it as transparently as possible. It's always a trade-off in the end, but still. Mr. Chairman. I'll get on the motions. In the motion in part No. 349 asks Mr Jasper van Dijk not to issue export licences for Egypt. We have discussed this at length, so we do not need to repeat it now. I want, given the discussion we have had, to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u55	The motion in part No. 349 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u56	The motion in part No. 350...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u57	I see that Mr Jasper van Dijk wants to ask a question, but I do want to avoid a little bit of re-examining the whole discussion. I will allow Mr Van Dijk a brief interruption because it is his own motion, but ask him to keep it brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u58	We are not going to repeat the debate, but I had also asked a question in my term. I asked if the Minister would look carefully at the principle of presumption or denial, so the suspicion that a delivery cannot be sensible? I believe that this is a good addition to the policy. Does the Minister recognize that supplies to Egypt are currently at least controversial? You can discuss it; I acknowledge that immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u59	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u60	But my motto would be: if in doubt, do not!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u61	We have discussed this at length. We've been watching that. It was a delivery for the Navy. I have already indicated that arms export control or a ban on arms exports is not a seal of approval or disapproval when it comes to a country's policy, but simply has to do with the way in which something can be used. We have looked at this and, as far as Egypt is concerned, we have seen in all our considerations: this supply cannot be used for activities that would be contrary to Dutch policy and thus contrary to everything that has to do with human rights. It was equipment for the Navy, which is why we acted as we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u62	Thank you. The motion in part No. 54 thus continues to be discouraged. Then the motion to part No. 55.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u63	Perhaps in connection with that, the motion is in part No. 55. I'd like to discourage that motion, too. Maybe that's a misunderstanding. It is not that we exempt the Navy as such from our assessment under the motto "if something is on a ship, it cannot be used to suppress people in the capital," just to be practical. We'll look at it on a case-by-case basis. On a case-by-case basis. It is not the case that the Navy as such is excluded from these considerations. A radar system is of a different order than a machine gun that you can unscrew and put on somewhere else, just to approach it a little bit banal. But that's what we're looking at. It's not like the Navy is being excluded as a military component, which is why I want to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u64	The motion in part No. 55 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u65	Then there is the motion on dual-use goods worth 2 million. I'd like to dissuade them, too. These are global destinations and amounts which are therefore of a very different order. It is a question of many billions, which in principle never have anything to do with weapons, but in the end-use might mean something like that. That is why we have criteria, which we also submit to companies, and this is a matter of reporting, due diligence, to ensure that we know and agree on what is going on with the end user. By the way, all these permits are also on the website. So it's not like we're being secretive about that. That's out of the question. I would like to say that I do not believe that we are going to regard everything that is included in this report as a 'double-use', whereas we are now saying that it is basically used for something other than a weapon. But it could be, that's why all the other conditions are attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u66	The motion in part No. 56 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u67	Then I come to Mr Klink's motion. I have been able to follow with interest this partly linguistic and perhaps partly anthropological discourse from your Chamber. I'd like to say a few things about that. It is not insignificant; words matter in a parliament. Today we are no longer talking about 'weapon export policy', but about 'export control policy'. This has to do with the fact that, of course, there has been a very different category. But it still makes sense to talk sometimes about arms exports. A clear separation is being made at European level. The common position on arms exports is a European position, an EU position on arms exports. There is a separate regulation on dual-use. If that split is applied, then you should also be able to indicate with words what that split looks like. I would like to talk about the export of strategic goods when it comes to goods that could be used both military and dual-use. To be honest, however, for my own skill in expressing myself in a way that is still understandable to me, I would like to continue to use the term 'weapon exports' occasionally when it comes to military goods or dual-use goods which are clearly for military use. But that being said, it is not for me to prescribe how your Chamber uses language and language skills. So I'm happy to give the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u68	The motion in part No. 352 gets judgment, Room. Then the motion to part No. 353.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u69	Then the motion to part No. 353, by Mr Van Haga. That's state-of-the-art policy. We constantly bet on a level playing field. As far as we are concerned, the bar may sometimes be a little higher if we take the average of the European Union, but that is not the point. We're committed to a level playing field, with all the consequences of that. So I'm happy to give the motion judgment Chamber. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u70	The motion in part No. 353 also gets judgment Chamber. This brings us to the end of this two-minute debate on arms exports policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u71	All motions for resolutions from the three previous two-minute debates will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. Then we shall begin with the debate on the budget for Justice and Security.
