ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35961, Amendment of the Public Health Act to adapt the temporary rules on the use of corona tickets in non-essential retail and non-essential services in public places.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday, in this Chamber from 9 a.m. to 1:00 a.m., we had a plenary debate on Wednesday, therefore, on the third extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. You can say all kinds of things about this debate, but let me take a positive view; at least we had a detailed exchange of views on all kinds of subjects directly or indirectly related to the covid crisis. Let me be honest: our group still feels that a long-term vision is lacking and that it is always too little, too late for the short term. That feeling has only gotten stronger over the past week. In our view, there is no point in going back to that debate today. There are many debates on many fundamental issues that this crisis raises. There are debates on the more fundamental measures currently under the control of the Cabinet. Those debates will be held in the House of Representatives in the coming weeks and, insofar as this leads to legislative proposals that pass through the House of Representatives, they will then come here. In these debates, we will certainly not be indifferent, but let us do everything in the right order. So today is about something else. The proposal before us today is relatively limited. We now know in the hospitality and at certain events the use of a so-called corona admission ticket. The present bill allows the Minister to impose the same obligation on so-called non-essential retail and non-essential services in public places. I would like to outline to you the consideration of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on three points that are particularly important in this Chamber. The first is about effectiveness. Our weighting is that the present proposal for citizens and businesses is relevant, but in its operation it is a rather limited extension of the use of the corona access card. We all know that much more is needed; I say that immediately. So that's what we're gonna be talking about in the next few weeks. It is also true that with this law we are not going to strictly reduce the number of infections. It takes a lot of other things. However, this law can help at the appropriate time not to unduly increase the number of infections. For that limited purpose, the law can be effective. The proposal also extends the government's ability to take measures which we believe are sound and understandable. It is proportional, especially if you include the amendment of our former colleague Mirjam Bikker and Aukje de Vries, adopted to our pleasure in the House of Representatives, with compliments to these colleagues from the Christian Union and the VVD. That proposal makes it possible for the Minister to replace the use of the corona access card with the one-and-a-half meter rule and a mouth cap where possible. In particular, in the smaller retail sector, I can imagine that it could be a relief. We would therefore also like to call on the Minister to make active use of the possibilities offered by that amendment and thus by this law from the adoption of the amendment. It is therefore effective, albeit for a limited purpose. It's proportional, provided it's intelligent. Then there is the feasibility, and in all honesty there is still our greatest concern. Of course, it will only work if it is respected, implemented and enforced on a large scale. In our view, that is quite possible, so it is feasible, but that requires very good communication with the population, with entrepreneurs, with the municipality and in our view also an active commitment to the amendment by Mirjam Bikker and Aukje de Vries, so that you do not charge all kinds of companies that are not really capable of doing so and where it does not really make much sense, with an overdose of measures. The answers to our written input show that the government sees that this feasibility needs a lot of attention. I would like to stress once again that we are curious as to what the Minister has to say. In summary. Does it solve the current problem? No, it takes a lot of other things. Is it a useful possibility to include now or in the future in the Minister's toolbox? Yes. In our view, the associated disadvantages do not outweigh the benefits it offers. GroenLinks is therefore entering this debate with a positive attitude towards the law that is now before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mrs. Faber. Mr. Van Gurp, please stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u5	Oh, Mrs Faber. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u6	I thought I would wait for Mr Van Gurp to finish his speech, because perhaps he will come back to it. It's about enforcement. How do you see that? Should there be a boa at the door of every Blokker or Marskramer or anywhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u7	Enforcement always starts with the people themselves, of course, whether it is about citizens or about businesses. The question you are raising is, of course, a relevant one. That rule also applies in the hospitality sector at the moment. There's not every bar and not every restaurant has a cop or a boa. And yet, at least as far as I'm concerned, the policy is being implemented in many places. In places where it is not carried out, I also see citizens who know their own responsibility and then turn around and say: yes, boys, if you do not follow the rules of the game, I will not come in here. In that interplay we see possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u9	But you can see that there is a leak in the enforceability. You say: it is about own responsibility and so on and so forth. When it comes to your own responsibility, you can also say to people: if you have symptoms and are sick or whatever, you stay home. Then you don't need that whole corona pass at all. Can you imagine that: you have a small retail shop and then a guy comes at you from two by one meters. You're gonna tell him to show me that evidence? I think you can get all kinds of shit at the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u10	Of course, it's not just its own responsibility. It starts with compliance and ultimately it is final enforcement. I'm a football supporter and as a football supporter I'm not used to it anymore. When I go to NAC, first they check if my QR code is correct and if my ID fits and then I can have my card scanned. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst of the PVV Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. For almost two years, the Dutch population is not only suffering from a whimsical virus, but also from a erratic government policy. You'd almost start thinking, "What you're dealing with, you'll get infected with it." We need to get rid of these infections. That is why the Minister is presenting this proposal, with the aim of reducing the number of infections, by using the corona ticket more widely than just for access to events, catering, culture and sport. Even now it is no longer a matter of taking franc and quite a terrace, while the risk of contamination in the outdoors is virtually nil. In addition, access to non-essential shops and services is subject to conditions only. If it's up to the minister, you can only get access there if you've recovered from corona, have been vaccinated against corona or have been tested for corona. Now you can discuss what's essential. The Minister states that this includes products and services aimed at the primary necessities of life. You'd expect that includes earning your own bread. Now I understand that a visit to the hairdresser is not essential for everyone. But taking part in an important job interview with a wild hairdo can make someone happy. This on top of all coronastress can push people mentally over the edge. Mr. Chairman. The population has always been told that vaccination was the way back to normal. The policy was fully focused on vaccination. We'd be poking ourselves out of the crisis. After dancing with Janssen the young came home from a cold carnival. It is becoming painfully clear that the protection of vaccines is declining more quickly than was envisaged. Infections are rapid and vaccinees are also tested positively. You could conclude from this that it is not clear what the effects of the vaccines are in the short term, or that the population has been misinformed. I'd like a response from the Minister. As far as the number of infections is concerned, we are obliged to ask whether positive testing is the same as being contagious. Being contagious also has to do with the virus load of the person concerned. Depending on the method of testing, you can increase the sensitivity to detection by increasing the number of breeding cycles during testing. Someone can then be tested positive without an infectious virus. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. How many breeding cycles are run and what cycle is the test read out? Has there been conclusive testing from the beginning? Is a standard operating procedure used so that the data can be compared? If so, since when is a standard procedure used? How is it secured and what does this standard procedure entail? I'd like a response from the Minister. Now that both vaccinees and unvaccinated can have a positive test result, you can seriously wonder if a wider use of the corona pass results in fewer infections. Or does it just lead to more infections? After all, vaccinees can also test positive and walk in everywhere carefree without testing. In this way, the bill misses its purpose and only leads to false safety. Similarly, the OMT and the Council of State are not sure of achieving the intended goal and are holding a battle. According to the OMT, the wider use of the corona access ticket is a targeted measure that can affect the transmission of the virus. The Council of State states that the bill can contribute to reducing contagion rates. Then that is also in combination with other measures, so you never know what will ultimately bring about this measure. Their position is not illogical, given that the number of infections is not limited to unvaccinated. The number of infections among vaccinees is even increasing slowly. Mr. Chairman. The OMT has played a major role in the crisis from the outset. The OMT shall meet behind closed doors, where an opinion shall then roll out. Opinions are also based on RIVM projections and models, which makes things even more complex and even more difficult to understand. 'Cause what goes on in these models and what comes out? Who knows, you can say it. There is no scientific basis for the OMT opinions. It is therefore unclear whether the advice is based on an opinion of the experts or on hard scientific research. Eric-Jan Wagenmakers, professor of methodology at the University of Amsterdam, therefore wondered to what extent these advices should be trusted. There's more and more seeping out that there are differences of opinion within the OMT. Inside the black box it starts to brew, I'll say. And the comfort zone that the cabinet has created for itself by shuffling measures on the OMT starts sanding. For let us not forget, if in the future it appears that any incorrect policy decisions have been taken, the OMT is in the middle of the chain. It can barely defend itself and can just end up as a scapegoat. It seems that some of the experts involved in the OMT are starting to feel uncomfortable. For example, the Groningen microbiologist Alex Friedrich believes that there should be more transparency about the conduct of the OMT's internal discussions. Gommers calls for the OMT's meetings to be made public. He says, "The OMT, and those meetings, and that letter of advice, that's fine. But what I have trouble with is that the outgoing cabinet sometimes does expressions as being of the OMT. Also in the news, as if we've said so. That's not true, and you can't correct that."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u13	As Mr Van Gurp has just said, we had a 16-hour debate here last week on corona policy in general. We have a very small bill now. I imagine Mrs Faber is questioning this bill. That is, of course, her own right, but now I hear her evaluating vaccination policy, testing policy, OMT. Mr President, how far are we going to go on the subject of today's agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u14	I think this is a question for the President. I'm gonna go over my own lines, aren't I? It all has to do with each other, doesn't it? Infection has to do with the vaccination, has to do with the OMT, with the advice of the OMT. Yes, my group believes that the OMT is a bit of a black box after all, so we can just bring that up here. Let's not forget that this bill is about contagion. On the basis of the number of infections, far-reaching decisions are taken. That is what the OMT has to do with; that is also what measuring the infections is about. So it all has to do with each other. That Mrs De Bruijn of the VVD does not see that and sees no cross-links, of course I cannot change that. But we'll see them and that's why I'm putting them on the table now. In addition, I am referring to my own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u15	Yes, of course you are talking about your own speech, but I can ask, indeed through the President, what is the order of the sitting today. Last week, we had a wide-ranging debate on corona policy. I think that your group asked enough questions about this at that time too. I don't see the order of business as you do. Let me ask you a question about this. You are right to say that there is not a single measure that is 100% conclusive, nor will it apply to these measures. But at the end of the day, it's a summing-up of all kinds of measures we have to take to control the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u16	Of course, it's always a sum. And of course, it's always the weakest link in the chain that determines it. This bill is not going to make any sense, because both vaccinees and unvaccinated people may be infected. Vaccinates can also walk in untested, so that is a risk. That is also just false security that is being created. We all shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u17	You will continue your speech, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. At present, it is impossible to verify the basis of the OMT's opinions, nor can it be verified whether the underlying data of those opinions give a true picture of reality. The same decision of the OMT lays the foundations for far-reaching measures that threaten fundamental rights: the right to physical integrity, the right to privacy and the right to property. I'm not even talking about equal treatment. And then there's another point of view. What about the conflict of interest? Follow the Money reports the following in connection with any conflict of interest in relation to OMT members. One member is being investigated for conflicts of interest and earning millions by his own advice. Another member advises on the test policy and on the use of quick tests, a source of income for his laboratory and himself. But he didn't report that financial interest. Another member has a patent on a ventilator and in 2016 he was in a research for ventilation equipment, funded by the companies Dempel and Dräger. Those are exactly the companies where the State bought millions of ventilator equipment in the spring of 2020. In total, only the Dutch State bought 100 million in equipment. Is the Minister aware of this? If so, is this message correct? If not, is the Minister prepared to investigate this further? Have all OMT members signed a declaration of interest? I'd like a response from the Minister. In short, that black box needs to be cut open. Those OMT meetings need to go public. Those OMT meetings reports should be released and those OMT opinions provided with scientific support so that Parliament can do its job. I'd like a response from the Minister. On behalf of the PVV Group, I am considering tabling various motions on this subject in the second term. Mr President, in fact, this Chamber can only decide on this legislative proposal when full transparency is given on the preparation of the OMT's opinions. I therefore call on the Minister to make their reports public immediately and to provide us with the scientific basis for the opinions. Mr President, the PVV Group looks forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. The proposal to amend the Public Health Act before us today cannot be separated from the measures of 13 and 28 November. The legislative proposal was tabled in the situation of 13 November, not 28 November. That is why my first question is whether the Minister can again indicate exactly what measures apply to the non-essential retail sector as from 28 November. I have been shopping this weekend but once asked several shopkeepers if they knew and they are getting a little lost. Between 5:00 and 5:00, they still get it. But then what? Mouth cap, five feet, maximum number of people per square meter? I'd like the Minister to clarify this once more, even for those shopkeepers. What are they supposed to meet? They no longer know whether measures are being stacked or whether they can replace each other. So I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Today, at the request of the cabinet, we are discussing this proposal as a matter of urgency, including votes today. I therefore assume that the ministerial arrangement that is to govern the implementation of this bill is already in place. Why else is this urgency and the votes today? Because of this urgency, there has also been no consultation, very unusual. But is this urgency still present when we look at the package of measures of 28 November? I have understood in particular that this proposal was intended as a management measure from 3 December following the end of the measures of 13 November. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. Can the Minister explain how this ministerial arrangement provides a solution and how it has now been addressed for the concerns raised by the Council of State regarding the demarcation of this bill? The Council of State has noted the following, and I quote: 'However, the potential scope of the proposed regulation is wide; therefore, the Section considers it desirable that, also in view of preparations which may need to be made in practice in the short term, the explanatory memorandum provides more insight into the possible scope of the obligation to be imposed and the criteria which will be eligible for a possible differentiation.'. The Government's response was: "When the corona ticket is used in relation to non-essential retail and non-essential services, the explanatory memorandum to the Ministerial Regulation and in the public communications will explain in good time how the corona ticket is used and what this means for entrepreneurs and citizens.'. End of quote. My group therefore has the following questions. Is this ministerial arrangement really ready? From when will the corona access card be used for these sectors? How has the Bikker/Aukje de Vries amendment been incorporated into the ministerial regulation? What's the delineation look like? When does the government's promised timely communication about the deployment begin? After all, we are talking about urgency here and there was no time for consultation. My next questions are about the feasibility of the bill. Entrepreneurs report by a large majority that the bill is not enforceable for them. We have learned from previous experience that if the feasibility of the measures is flawed and supervision and enforcement cannot be in order, the intended objectives of the measures will not be met. On paper, but not in reality. If it is already clear in advance that a legislative proposal is not feasible, then Article 58rb Public Health Act is again clear, namely that rules should only be made if they are enforceable and effective. You can feel on your clogs that the duty proposed in the bill for non-essential shops will prove impossible in practice. The Council of State also refers to this. In response to these comments from the Council of State, the Minister states that the feasibility of the scheme may be important in the identification of the precise activities and provisions. But that's not how it works. It is decisive; read article 58rb of the Public Health Act. That's not a can-determine. I would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. Mr. Chairman. Understanding measures in society has a direct impact on acceptance and compliance. This measure raises the question of whether there are other measures, which are understandable. My group is very concerned about this. The Council of State points out to the Cabinet, looking at that notion, that the proposal is not consistent. I quote the Council of State; it is a somewhat longer quote. "However, whether people actually come close to each other in shops depends mainly on their size and the circumstances of the case. From that perspective, the distinction between essential and non-essential shops is not relevant. In addition, the proposed amendment makes it possible to also make access to outdoor locations dependent on the corona ticket, such as playgrounds and amusement parks. Previously, a distinction was made between measures that applied inside and outside because of the lower risk of contamination outside." I would like a response from the Minister to these comments from the Council of State, because the answer in the Cabinet's further report did not convince me at all. In this context, I would also refer to the comments made in the law on approval of the fourth extension of the Twm, in which the Council of State noted the effects of government policy on yo-yo. That is not good for understanding, acceptance and compliance. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of whether this bill is proportionate. Is there no other less radical way of achieving the same goal, as entrepreneurs themselves indicate? How proportional is this bill still in the light of the measures taken on 28 November? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, concluding. We know that many entrepreneurs themselves have indicated that checking the corona ticket is not feasible for them. Then we also know that this will not achieve the objectives we are aiming for. My group also believes that there are more proportionate alternatives for entrepreneurs, especially when we look at the measures announced and adopted on 28 November. All in all, therefore, my group has serious doubts about the feasibility, proportionality and effectiveness of this legislative proposal. But, of course, we are waiting for the government to reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Last week we talked to the Minister about the importance of correct information and transparency. I remember from an earlier debate that one of my fellow senators I think that Mr Verkerk was stressing that the fair story had to be told. How transparent is the Minister with his information? Last week I was talking about my calculation that of the 190,000 travellers from very high-risk areas less than 2.9% had been called by the control team. That, Mr President, was not contradicting, but exposing the buttocks and delivering the figures I asked for about numbers of people: that was not the case. Today we are talking about the extension of the corona admission certificate and not about compliance with quarantine obligations, although this is again very topical with the arrival of the omikron variant. If 90% of travellers escape control, does the Minister still think that this is acceptable? Mr. Chairman. There is indeed a connection between what happened at Schiphol Airport and the bill we are discussing today. A number of travellers who had boarded with a green check mark based on their corona check certificate were infected with the new variant upon arrival, according to a PCR test. That immediately raises the question of what the vaccination certificate actually says. Has the honest story been told from the beginning, namely that a vaccinee can actually carry the virus and so can infect others? What are the odds, anyway? Over and over again, I have asked the Minister about this. If I asked on the basis of what calculations the RIVM made, I did not get those calculations and I was redirected to the RIVM site. Speaking of transparency. How does such a reaction tolerate the government's duty to inform the people's representatives? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. What about the information to the population and the media? The RIVM comes every so many times with estimates of effectiveness. In pieces it is referred to as "VE', which suggests that the vaccine is effective against infection. But that percentage does not relate to the effectiveness of the vaccine against becoming infected, but to its effectiveness against hospitalisation and ic. A calculation of the effectiveness of not being infected, on which we find no research results or calculations in the tables of the RIVM. If so many vaccinated travellers from South Africa turned out to be infected when entering the Netherlands, although vaccinated, that says enough. A vaccination certificate provides false security. In a report dated 23 November, RIVM reported that more than 100,000 vaccinees were infected during the first three weeks of November. That was three times as much compared to October and ten times as much compared to September. I asked in the written preparation how much percent per week and per month the effectiveness of that vaccine is currently decreasing. The Minister's answer was: there are currently no reliable estimates of this. Is the Minister serious about this? I'd like his reaction. I asked the Minister last week what, according to his information for vaccinees, was actually the effectiveness against infection. His answer was 75%. Mr. Chairman. A Member of Parliament who needs such important factual information is not adequately informed and needs to investigate for himself. In my opinion, that is not the way it should be. If you start looking, you will eventually find in an appendix to an attachment to the 130th OMT report something about estimated effectiveness. It is not at 75%, as the Minister said in the debate, but at 70%. And that percentage, as indicated, is based on the most recent estimate based on test data. How recently? When was this assessment made? The Minister's answer to my written question was: 5 October 2021. On November 19th, we received the 130th OMT recommendation with "the most recent assessment." Then it turned out that this estimate dates back to a month and a half earlier. Not the date of the assessment, by the way, was decisive, but the question of the period during which the tests on which that assessment was based were carried out. The Minister's answer to my written question was: this period was from 4 July to 27 September. Mr. Chairman. On 19 November, the RIVM announced that, on the basis of the most recent estimates, a 70% vaccination effectiveness was assumed, without indicating that this percentage was calculated on the basis of outdated data, namely over a period of months earlier. In reply to my written question, the Minister had expressly admitted that the effectiveness of the vaccination was reduced as the vaccination took place longer. Mr. Chairman. Is this correct and complete information? Is this transparency? What does the Minister himself think of this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In Italy...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u23	I am listening to Mr Nicolaï's speech and I hear a lot of numbers and opportunities. I wonder what he blames the Minister for, because he will agree that RIVM does not have all kinds of absolute numbers and opportunities and that we always make assessments and have no absolute truths in this whole pandemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u24	I don't blame the Minister. I blame the government and RIVM for not assessing the correct data and for saying that they are making the most recent assessment, and then it is about an assessment of the situation, which I do not hear contradicting you about the months of July, August and September. In the meantime, we're in November. If it is established that the effect, the effectiveness of that vaccine, which is also endorsed by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, will be reduced every week... I will come to that in a moment, because there are figures about that, and that will surprise you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u25	You'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u26	Then I say: why are we not properly informed? If I can continue my speech, perhaps I will make the data clear to Mr van der Voort as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u27	I'm gonna listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u28	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u29	To continue my speech, I have to go to Italy, because in Italy, the Istituto Superiore di Sanità also periodically reports, as in the Netherlands, their colleagues from the RIVM. Unlike the RIVM, it does report on the two different VEs. A percentage of vaccine effectiveness for the purpose of getting infected with the vaccinees, and a vaccine effectiveness for the purpose of getting serious diseases. The table on page 22 of the report of 24 November of that Istituto Superiore di Sanità shows that after six months the vaccine effectiveness against infection of fully vaccinated persons is only 40.1%. This covered the period 5 July to 21 November. In this bulletin dated two weeks before, it covered the period until 7 November. At that time, the percentage of protection against contamination was 50.2%. In those two weeks, the percentage fell dramatically. Mr. Chairman. Why doesn't the Minister give you such information? Can't his officials read the reports from that Italian institute? Why does RIVM only inform the population and the media about the percentages against hospital and ic intake and not how safe it is to rely on your vaccination if you do not want to infect others? Can the Minister explain that to me? Is it strange that hundreds of thousands of vaccinees are now testing positive? What does that say about all those vaccinees who don't have any complaints and who don't get tested, but who might spread the virus? Mr. Chairman. I have always asked for such data and I feel that these data have been withheld because it was not possible to share the government. This would show that the effects of the vaccine on infectious diseases have deteriorated so much since the summer that there was a need to administer a booster, which has been neglected. This would show how irresponsible it was to assume the false safety of the vaccine in the case of corona tickets in order to prevent the spread of the virus. Can the Minister answer that? Mr. Chairman. People get on the plane with a vaccination certificate, while perhaps 50% to 60% of them carry the virus. Does the Minister think that's justified? Sensible visitors who have passed a proper test and have been non-positive are in the cinema among vaccinees of whom 50% to 60% may carry the virus. Isn't that dangerous, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The transmission of the virus by vaccinees infected is lower than that of unvaccines. The transmission probability is estimated at 50%. Even if you take that into account, vaccinees still remain contagious for others 25% to 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u30	I am very interested to hear Mr Nicolaï's speech. Is he actually saying that the government has spread fake news about the infectiousness of people who are supposedly corona-free on the basis of evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u31	It would be fake news if the government had said: the chance that you infected others is 10%. That would have been fake news. But the government has always said: the vaccine protects 98%, 96%. From what? Against hospitalization. This is how it is always above, but then there is talk about the VE, the vaccine effectiveness. But about vaccine effectiveness in the sense of "can we infect each other?" no data have been provided and if no data have been provided, there is no fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u32	Quite clearly: no fake news, but there is insufficient information or the information is not timely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u33	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to support the colleague of the Animal Party. The government website says: "Vaccination against the coronavirus is not mandatory. But if everyone is vaccinated, the virus can no longer spread."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u36	And then it says a little further: "Why do I have to stick to the basic rules against corona after vaccination? Because you can still transfer the corona virus to others even after vaccination." Yeah, I mean... who's the spreader of fake news here? To be honest, I think it's the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u37	I don't hear a question. Mr. Nicolaï, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. The chance that you infected others; I would have stayed there. That brings me to the law we are discussing today. The corona admission certificate also includes the vaccination certificate as a law at the moment. Now it has to be assumed that the chances of the holders of such proof infecting others should be set at 25% to 30%, there is no legal basis at present for giving people access on the basis of the vaccination certificate. Mr. Chairman. Testing for access also does not have a 100% guarantee. For those who have been tested negative, there is still a 20% chance that he will carry the virus. But the risk of being infected by a vaccinated person is greater, since at least 25%. In that case, the vaccination certificate must not be used as a corona admission certificate. How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. In the House of Representatives it was already discussed that in order to prevent the spread of the virus there can in fact be only one requirement: to test everyone. Anyone who understands that, under the current circumstances, the vaccination certificate does not provide sufficient guarantees against the spread of the virus so many months after vaccinations and without the required booster, can only do one thing: vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u39	I know Mr. Nicolaï as someone who is very interested in the details. I've also listened with interest to your story. But don't you actually argue to return the corona pass to 2G? As you rightly point out, vaccination does not guarantee that you will not carry the virus with you and that you will not be able to spread it less than if you have not been vaccinated, but still. What is it really about? When people carrying the virus come to people who have no protection at all, the latter are the people who are not protected. They think they're protected because they have a negative test, but they're not protected from becoming seriously ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u41	Isn't that just a plea to be for 2G?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u42	We're gonna talk about 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u43	I thought so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u44	I myself heard my honourable colleague say that we should confine ourselves here to the issues we are discussing today. Now my colleague is going to talk about a subject that she does not think we should discuss. If we are going to discuss the legislation, we are going to discuss this issue in detail. What confuses you is, again, how much chance you have of getting into the hospital, getting sick. What I'm talking about is, how many chances do you have of spreading it? That's what we're talking about. In the context of the Corona Access Card, it is essential that the law governs it... look into the law itself. The law assumes: in principle, you should be tested. The vaccination certificate can also be used if the vaccination certificate actually provides the same level of protection against possible contamination of others. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mrs. De Bruijn, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u46	Short. Mr. Nicolaï rightly notes that we would not be talking about 2G today, but I asked the question because he himself made the step to 1G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u47	Please continue your argument, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. This brings me to the second reason that may have contributed not to tell the honest story about the decreasing effectiveness of the vaccine. The complaint that the booster is being launched too late is, after all, very convincing evidence. And who is not shocked by the table in the NRC where you can see that we are dangling at the bottom, after Bulgaria, after other countries you think "well, they usually don't have it in order"? Why aren't tents set up by the army, booster spots created, medical students called to help prick? Why not set up special covid units with rotating shifts, which you don't need super nurses for at all? I see so many volunteers applying. Why is the test capacity not rapidly increased in the government test streets? Why not provide free self-tests? Why is it not possible for people to be able to test themselves at the entrance of catering, cinemas and theatres? Mr. Chairman. These are questions from professionals involved, from surprised journalists, in short from so many concerned citizens who would like to come up with plans or help, that whole social field that Mr Verkerk mentioned last time. The answer to that question is relevant, also in the context of the current law before us. Because if less drastic measures are possible, then you have to follow them. I'd like an answer. But the minister seems paralyzed, tied up. How do you avoid becoming a cipher device that repeats his story over and over again? So, I say to the Minister, it doesn't work. Listen to society, make way for initiatives, find creativity in society. Think about a booster director, think about a test capacity director. Give medical managers who come with proposals for separate covid units serious attention. Mr. Chairman. Creativity and positive energy: we need that. What is the point of blaming unvaccinated people? For those who can read and write and look at the good media, the message has certainly arrived. Professor of Older Medicine Westendorp, who works in Denmark, pointed out that 76% of the total population in Denmark had two shots and in the Netherlands that is 73% and here there is a black code, while in Denmark corona is hardly a subject. This difference is therefore not caused by a different degree of vaccination. But with him in Denmark, the test capacity is almost nine times higher than with us. What is the Minister's response to that? Mr. Chairman. Tester and booster. It's like two barking dogs that need to be walked fast. Our group has no problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u50	I am a little confused by the tombola of numbers, and I do not think that Mr Nicolaï always draws the right conclusions. But overalls are still unclear to me as to his opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u51	My opinion of the bill? Then you didn't listen carefully, I'd almost say. My opinion is that it cannot be discussed, because the law states that the corona access card should only include the vaccination certificate if it has been established that the risk of infection of others for someone who has that vaccination certificate is less than for someone who has been tested. If you get tested, chances are you're still infected 20%, and if you have a vaccination certificate, based on the data I mentioned, the probability is 25 to 30%. You know what my answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u52	I think this is a very nice summary of the speech. Then I wonder if Mr Nicolaï is therefore in favour of 1G, because then we all have people who have been tested and who have not obtained the vaccination certificate in any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u53	I'm coming back to Mrs. De Bruijn-Wezeman. On 1G, 2G, 3G and at all whether that kind of thing is actually at issue in the situation we have now come to, we are going to have an extensive debate. I assume that we will be able to have all the debates that are necessary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u54	I'll stay in suspense for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u55	Then I have one more question, because it's about getting the infections down. What proposals do you have? You say that this is not the right proposal, but what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u56	We are talking today about a law that we may or may not have to pass, which I believe is the discussion that cannot be passed because we are actually acting in violation of the law itself. That's what we're talking about today. We don't have another broad corona debate; we had that last week. Last week I asked the questions that were needed and I did not receive an answer. That's when I started figuring it out myself. Then I think: hooey, there's only one thing: testing and boosters must be released as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you. Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u58	It is clear to me that you are talking about a legal point. But it is also a question of whether this, apart from this legal aspect, could contribute to reducing the contamination. That's what I'd like to know from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u59	No, I'm even afraid it's going to make a contribution to increasing the infections because people who have a vaccination certificate think it's safe. Take the Concertgebouw, where older people mainly come. They've been vaccinated, they've shown that tick, they're going in there and they're thinking it's safe. But they don't stop to think about the fact that older people have an even lower percentage if you look at the Italian data that they can all infect each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you. Mr. Karakus? Mr Schalk, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u61	Sure, on behalf of the SGP. A brief question to Mr Nicolaï. In his speech he stayed a little away from the discussion about 1G, 2G, 3G. I understand him on the one hand, but does he not agree with me that the law that is now before us is actually a very easy step to, for example, 2G?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u62	There won't be a stepping stone, because we can't accept this law if we read what's in the law. So there's not going to be a stepping stone. Your party is also always very legal. If you read what it says correctly, you will see that the vaccination certificate should only play a role when it appears that, I will say, it protects as much against contamination as a test certificate. That is no longer the case because there was no booster. Then we can't pass the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u63	I cannot yet anticipate the adoption of the law as far as Mr Nicolaï is concerned, but back to my question. Even if that law were to be passed, wouldn't that be a very easy step to that 2G and shouldn't you perhaps take that argument with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u64	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u65	This law is not a stepping stone; of course there is already a corona admission certificate. So whether we pass this law or not, the step is always there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mr. Chairman. Today we are once again together in this house in connection with new measures designed to combat the pandemic covid. In the meantime, it has become clear that, despite all the optimistic statements made by our Minister in the past on the effectiveness of vaccines and the road to freedom, the reality is a little different from what was outlined before. We already have 1,000 more hospitalizations than last year, when no one was vaccinated. There is a new variant, omikron, broken out, a highly mutated version of the delta variant. The WHO warned yesterday that this variant presents a major global risk. More and more countries are closing their borders. Will the Cabinet consider further stricter measures this week and, if so, what instruments does the Minister think of? If you are always well informed, Minister, we ask. I read that at Schiphol Airport not every passenger from southern Africa is required to be tested before it is admitted. I thought you said you did. Then where does it go wrong? Will there be a vaccination obligation upon arrival at Schiphol? I hear it's pretty messy out there. Is the GGD capable of doing what is now being asked of them? It is not time to express the urgency and the deep crisis, which is worse than when the pandemic began, to the general public, I ask the Minister. Don't you think it's time to step in? Because everyone knows that soft healers make stinking wounds. This is demonstrated by the exponential growth in the number of patients, despite the high vaccination rate. Vaccination helps; this proves Portugal with a vaccination rate of almost 100%. However, international protection is becoming smaller and smaller. With us, half the people who feel sick won't be tested. That is worrying; that is mopping with the tap open. The WRR and the KNMG have already outlined five scenarios in their opinion of 2 September. Four went out of long-term contagion, and we can see that now. Why didn't we react adequately to this at the time, including with a long-term plan? Mr. Chairman. And now the boosters. Why has the Netherlands started the booster so late, which is effective for the elderly and vulnerable? Mr Nicolaï already mentioned the strong and rapidly decreasing vaccination effectiveness and pointed to figures from Italy. The cabinet did not arrive until two weeks ago with a green light for the booster, on 16 November. reactive in optima forma instead of proactive. Neighboring countries started much faster: the United Kingdom followed in September, Germany and Belgium in October, and started to booster on a large scale. We are sadly dangling at the bottom, as Mr Nicolaï has already mentioned. The United Kingdom gave and sets a good example, now with a large scale after the new variant omikron. And what do we do? Too little and too late. It's to be ashamed of us, and I'm saying it now to be ashamed of us. Because the death rate in the nursing homes is rising ominously. For the 50PLUS Group, this situation is alarming. The elderly are concerned, so is our group. We are getting a lot of signals about this, especially yesterday after the news. The NOS reported Monday morning: "Death rate in nursing homes again as high as in the second wave, in November last year." That's what Professor of Older Medicine says, Cees Hertogh, who pointed out that no one had been vaccinated at the time. The latest data show that about 22% of the vaccinated residents die. The decreasing effectiveness of vaccines, especially in the elderly, is one of the reasons for this. According to this professor, the vulnerability of the nursing home residents and the properties of the delta variant also play a role. Not only is it more contagious than previous variants, he says, but there may also be a fatal outcome in vulnerable elderly people. In 970 nursing homes, about 40% of all locations, residents have been tested positively in the last four weeks. That's the highest number since the beginning of the pandemic. The symptoms of infection are a lot milder due to the high vaccination rate. Yet some of the infected inhabitants are rapidly deteriorating, says Hertogh. And what does the Cabinet do? Far too little. I read in the NOS-message: "This week"...................................................................................................................................................... The hope is that the boosters will reduce the mortality rate." The staff would be next week. I would ask the Minister to answer the following questions from my group. One. Can you give us an exact insight into the current situation in the nursing homes? Right now. Is a repetition of the degrading situation of one and a half years ago again? The elderly deserve our gratitude for what they have meant for their environment, their children and for society. I hear too much of the words "dorty wood." I don't like that at all. Can the Minister promise that the booster campaign for nursing homes will be increased and scaled up as much as possible this week in order to prevent and reduce the further increase in mortality rates? Will the Minister take additional measures as soon as possible to reduce mortality and contamination in nursing homes? And which ones are they? Finally, does the Minister intend to take additional measures in the care sector to prevent a major contamination from taking place there too? The hospitals are filling up again and the infection rates have broken record over the last few days after record. The contagion rates have never been higher in this year and a half pandemic. Despite a percentage of 85% fully vaccinated people in our country, the situation has gotten out of hand. The covid pandemic has been raging in the world for two years and we are farther from home than ever. The number of job vacancies in healthcare has increased enormously over the last year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr. Van Rooijen, may I ask you a question? You are at two thirds of your speaking time. You haven't mentioned the bill before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u69	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u70	I'm sure the Minister is curious about your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u71	Yes, Mr President, but you will not blame me, since we first heard yesterday how worrying the situation is in the nursing homes, which I really am being bombarded with alarm signals about, that I am discussing it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u72	I understand that tension very well, but the issue is a legislative proposal. You were given the floor on that. You have now used two thirds of your speaking time outside the legislative proposal. So I'm kindly asking you to focus on the bill now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u73	I assume you agree with me that the Minister should give more prompt and clear answers to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u74	You will continue your speech on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. For our group it is five to twelve. Our rule of law has an obligation to protect general health. This includes not only the care capacity but also the prevention of further polarisation, not only debate about 3G, 2G or 1G but above all also about behaviour, common sense, patience and no violence, please. Finally, I have questions about the law itself. In the note following the report, the Minister replied to the VVD's question: "A shopping centre can indeed house both essential and non-essential shops. It is therefore possible that some of the shops will have to ask for a corona admission certificate (CTB) and another part will not. The extent to which this will be done will depend on the activities and facilities where the use of the CTB is necessary.'. And then what are the criteria and who determines the criteria, the members of my group ask the Minister. The Bikker/Aukje de Vries amendment provides that in the case of non-essential retailers, the ministers concerned may provide that no CTB is requested in shops where the safe distance is a more proportionate measure than the use of the CTB. The members of my group wonder how the Minister sees this. On what basis can shops demonstrate that a safe distance in their particular case is a more proportionate measure? Mr. Chairman. I await with great interest the Minister's answers, particularly on the worrying situation in nursing homes, and I look forward to further discussion of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, our group would like to encourage the staff in the care and ambulance sector. We appreciate their great commitment. We find it painful that they are increasingly faced with unjustified accusations and aggressive behaviour. We also want to encourage the police and fire department staff. With horror, our group responds to the rioters who are violently targeting the police and the fire department and the feelings of fear that they have raised. We also want to encourage the staff in education. They carry out an extremely important task in this crisis. Mr. Chairman. In the debate on 23 November last, our group called for a great deal of attention to be paid to combating polarisation. I have done so by sketching out the dynamics of the debate, the technological paradigm versus the counterparadigm. I have asked the Cabinet to do everything in its power not to stir up this polarization itself through careless words and harsh accusations. I also looked with these eyes at the press conference last Friday. I was pleased with the more binding language of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the United States of America, without, by the way, losing any clarity. I would also like to invite the VWS Minister to continue this line in all communications surrounding this law and the use of corona tickets in non-essential retail and non-essential services. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Each measure fails if the three stroke compliance, control and enforcement are not in order. In the debate on 23 November last, several political groups called for a breakthrough in terms of compliance, control and enforcement. The Minister of JenV has indicated that he has a great deal of dialogue with the various factions or with the various branches and governments on this trip. Our group welcomes this. Our group has noticed that I am using our own words, and the Minister finds it difficult to inform the Chamber of the success of these dialogues and all these efforts. He also finds it difficult to take the words "significant improvement" of the OMT or the word "breakthrough" in my word "speak." That is why our question is: can the Minister explain why he expects the plan mentioned in the note following the report to lead to a substantial improvement or improvement in this case? a breakthrough for compliance, control and enforcement? And also the follow-up question: how will the Minister inform the Chamber about this? I would like a concrete commitment from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the report, our group has asked for this law in relation to the position of low-literate citizens and citizens with limited digital skills. I would like to thank the government for the comprehensive reply in the note on the report. And yet, I'm not comfortable with it. The WRR report 'Knowing is not yet done' offers, I quote the subtitle, 'a realistic perspective of self-reliance'. The question is therefore whether the government has applied the do-it-yourself test. What does this show and what was the result? Does the Minister also have empirical data, perhaps qualitatively, which shows that all the actions carried out in the memo fully support citizens in their capacity to act? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As far as the whole of the law is concerned, our group agrees with the opinion of the Council of State that a wider use of corona access cards can help to limit the spread of the virus. Mr. Chairman. In the debate on 23 November, I advocated a major role for local authorities and social links in the future corona policy, the so-called 'democratic paradigm'. I thank the Minister for bringing this paradigm into his response to the WRR/KNAW report. Last week, I had discussions with a number of mayors and aldermen on the corona policy in general and the forthcoming laws in particular. One important conclusion of that discussion was that mayor and aldermen want administrative space within the Minister's policy to achieve more local customization. And why? They mention two arguments: because then they can deal better with polarization and because then they can better maintain it. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the polarization mentioned earlier. Both the present law and the forthcoming laws can fuel polarization. Bart Brandsma writes in his book "Polarisation: Understanding the Dynamics of Us-Thinking" that the best antidote against polarization is vision, not just a vision, but a vision based on values; page 101. He describes that vision as the ability to create a new reality with imagination, to touch people with that new reality and thus pull them out of their polarized position. I see Mrs. Prince standing by, but I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. Shall I finish my speech first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u78	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u79	That is why it is so important that the cabinet has promised to come forward in the first quarter of 2022 with a response to the WRR/KNAW report and therefore with a vision. That is why it is so important to come up with a vision based on values that connects citizens. I'd like a response from the cabinet. The Christian Union Group looks forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs. Prins on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u81	I have a question for Mr Verkerk. If he talks about achieving compliance, enforcement and supervision more locally and regionally, how does he see that in relation to this law? In one village it is done differently than in the other village? I wonder how you look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u82	In relation to this law, that's a little tricky. The Minister states that, in relation to this law, he has the possibility to go in one situation, for example, smaller shops for 1.5 meters and the mouth cap, and in other cases for the CTB. But local is not freedom in that. I noticed that all those mayors and all those aldermen said, just as easily put: we know our pappenheimers and that is why it is important that we have local decision-making space. With regard to this law, that does not help, but I would like to put it this way in relation to future laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u83	Then it's clear to me that it doesn't refer to this law. I'm glad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group, but only after I have given the floor to Mr Nicolaï for an interruption on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u85	I heard Mr Verkerk say that he agrees with the Council of State that this bill can contribute to preventing the spread. If it is true that the vaccinees are actually more contagious than people who have taken a test, do you think that is still possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u86	There has already been talk of the many numbers you mentioned in your speech, and I must also say quite frankly: I do not know the Italian figures, but I do know the Dutch ones, insofar as they are reflected in the Minister's state-of-the-art reports. That shows that if you're vaccinated, you have a 70% lower chance of getting infected as you get older, that takes a little off, and that the chance of you passing on an infection is about 50%. Well, at least those are interesting numbers. It is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum that the CTB may best be used in combination with the 1.5 meter and the mouth cap. If you do, I think the CTB with this expansion can be effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u87	Thank you. Mrs Nanninga will speak, but not until after I have given the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Now it almost seemed that I would be skipped, while this is the first time in my life that I am allowed to debate with this minister, because I am replacing my colleague Mr Van Dijk today. So I'm gonna get started. Mr. Chairman. I once stood as a young reserve officer in front of five soldiers from my platoon and gave them a briefing on a difficult transport assignment. One of those five guys was the toughest: always in the contramine, no sense, no interest, no nothing. He was also very negative. Then I told him, you're the commander, and I'm counting on you. The others looked very surprised, but the young man completely changed, was suddenly interested, took his responsibility and brought the assignment to a successful conclusion. From that moment on, he was no longer of any use to me. My first question to the Minister is: do you recognize that? That people take responsibility for themselves if you dare to give them that? My second question is, of course, why do we always come up with all kinds of new measures, rules of the game, rather than putting responsibility above all where it belongs? Because, Mr President, the bottom of the toolbox containing measures against corona is, as far as I am concerned, not yet in sight, and yet the government wants to keep supplementing it every time, now with the extension of the CTB for non-essential retailing and services. In general, the SGP is critical of the use of the CTB as a means of combating the corona pandemic. Why would you trade in proven effective resources for a drug whose effectiveness is much less clear? In the meantime, has experts not sufficiently indicated that such a pass, if you want it, can only have a function at a time when compliance and enforcement are optimal and, more importantly, not when we are at a time of high levels of contamination? In short, in a situation which is not in any way present at the moment. This legislative proposal allows the Minister of VWS to designate under ministerial regulation the sectors in which the corona access card can be used. The Minister quite rightly stresses the importance of tailor-made work, proportionality weighting and good consultation, but my group is not reassured, because apparently the Minister himself finds it difficult to wait for a careful legislative process. After all, the last press conference he announced the introduction of the 2G system, as if there were no Second or Upper Chambers. That is worrying, because this proposal gives the same minister, as it were, carte blanche, to use the CTB. I have a few questions about that. Can the Minister make it quite clear in what circumstances the CTB would be in the non-essential retail and service sector and under what conditions that could be lifted again? What possibilities does the Minister see for customization and own responsibility for local entrepreneurs? Can the Minister provide an exhaustive overview of essential and non-essential services? Is mental care, for example, included in the essential services? Mr. Chairman. An important argument from the government is that with the CTB in hand sectors could remain securely open and not be subject to further restrictive measures. "In an ideal situation, the CTB is theoretically an effective measure to, in the words of the government, "avert the spread of the coronavirus, as it reduces the chances of transmission of the virus between participants in the activities and users of the facilities." End of quote. But it is now clear that the situation is far from ideal. Following the interbranch organisations, which indicate that they see major difficulties in implementation, the Association of Dutch Municipalities has also made it clear that the limits of enforcement capacity have been reached. The cabinet works with the three strokes of compliance, control and enforcement. Each measure stands or falls with its enforcement, which the OMT also clearly underlines in its recent opinion. The planned introduction of the CTB will further shift the control burden of the measures towards entrepreneurs and municipalities, a burden they cannot bear. It is precisely for this reason that the introduction of the CTB will not have the intended effect. Does it make sense, in this context, to introduce a measure which has already been established in advance that it is difficult to maintain? Wouldn't it be better if the Minister grabbed more tried and tested tools instead of constantly filling the coffin with the latest gadgets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u89	I listen with great interest to the argument about taking responsibility and giving people responsibility; you gave an example. When I look at the daily figures of the RIVM, I see that the areas in which your constituents in particular are involved have been referring to Staphorst, Urk, Gelderland; the Biblebelt has been pointing out all the lists for a long time, that they are in the top ten, because people are unvaccinated or take responsibility for singing unvaccinated in the church, leading to a very high occupancy in the hospitals, which means that other people who are waiting for surgery cannot use the beds. How am I supposed to place that behavior in your speech about taking responsibility by the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u90	Indeed, some of my constituents live in Staphorst and Urk; perhaps Mr Otten's. So in the Biblebelt, which has a slightly larger range than these two or three places you mention. There's no misunderstanding about that. As in those areas, where there may be a slightly lower vaccination rate, this is also the case in the major cities. In terms of numbers, there are many more people involved. That's one. Secondly, Mr Otten is right to say: wait a minute, you have to take responsibility. He takes the example of the churches. In my speech I indicated that a lot of measures proved to be very effective, for example the 1.5 metres. In these churches, to give an example, they have been working very effectively with those 1.5 meters for months. Mouthcaps. There has been huge investment in ventilation and such. So one takes responsibility, exactly in the way the minister says: if you maintain the 1.5 meters, there is nothing going on. Fortunately, the figures also show that there are hardly any outbreaks in these divine services. That is, of course, well investigated; I understand that as well. So Mr Otten doesn't have to worry so much about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u91	I doubt it is. The WHO has issued a number of important opinions. One of the most important is: avoid crowds, so avoid groups. We see this less in government policy, by the way. That's something I'm trying to do personally. I wouldn't sing so quickly in a church with a few hundred unvaccinated ones, because singing is also an activity in which the viral load gets more into the air. You did not answer the second part of my question. In Zwolle, the hospital is now full of people from Staphorst who consciously do not take that responsibility, putting other people at risk. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u92	And in relation to the bill, please. That's what I think you mean, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u93	When it comes to the relationship with the bill, I say that this bill is not going to help get people out of the hospital or anything. That has just been argued, for example by Mr Nicolaï. After all, the CTB is not going to help with the high levels of infection that are present. It's been proven by now. The number of vaccinees that are infected or pass on infections is enormous. I do not know if what Mr Otten says is entirely true, that in Zwolle there would be people from Staphorst who were not vaccinated. Undoubtedly they will be there, but there are also... That is the special thing about the system in the Netherlands: we do not exclude all kinds of people because they, perhaps out of conscientious objection, do not do something. At the time when they are not being vaccinated, perhaps Mr Otten is referring to this. I personally thought it might be possible for the Minister to answer that in a moment, because that is a question that lives with me. It is a pity that at some point we abandoned the effective measure of 1.5 metres away when we said 'now there is another opening in society'. Just something that was already well established and which was actually very little extra objection to, we lost a bit. This has contributed to the high levels of contagion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u94	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u95	I agree with the latter. That was a shame, and you're not gonna get that back. So I agree with Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u96	Finally, this is what I had to say. The CTB still has a crucial side effect, namely the constitutional aspect. It is a measure which, in fact, distinguishes between individuals and can therefore, in some sense, be called discriminatory. Other measures, such as the 1.5 metres............................................................................................................................................................................................. Those measures have been of service and are also considered enforceable and enforceable. This measure could be very polarising, as Mr Verkerk has just argued. This Chamber is watching the Constitution, Article 1. But one could also think of Article 10, privacy, Article 11 on the inviolability of the body or Article 14, since the exercise of the right of ownership is limited. Finally, Mr President. One says "where there is a will, there is a way," but with all power taking a salutary path will lead to disappointment. That is why the SGP calls on the Minister to abandon this bill and to seek a safer route out of this crisis, perhaps by giving citizens more responsibility themselves. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u98	I listened with great interest to Mr Schalk's story. In the previous contribution, we also advocated the responsibility of citizens and societies. I do have a question for Mr Schalk. Looking at recent studies, the support for the various basic measures appears to be increasing, but not compliance. If that is the real reality and at some point we are at a maximum level of compliance, what does Mr Schalk intend to do to increase it? If that is not possible at the moment, what other measures does Mr Schalk propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u99	A good and important question. It is easier to say to the Minister: this is not it. But then what is it? I would like to go back to the beginning of my speech, in which I pointed out the most important element, namely that the responsibility should be placed where people should take her. I notice, perhaps just like Mr Verkerk, that a lot of people are actually getting a little despondent: some new ideas; now we have to do this and that again. That's what we're being forced to do. When we suddenly gave that soldier a great responsibility, responsibility was taken up much better and more self-help and self-reliance was exercised. In addition, you could do a lot of other things that would make it much easier for people to take on that responsibility. You could take that responsibility by taking a number of measures. I'm thinking, for example...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u100	Would you like to make it brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u101	Shall I be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u102	As far as we can go now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u103	I only came up with ten measures that might help. No, I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. One might think of the regional or localisation of that Catshuis; that was advocated by one of my colleagues across the street today, far across. But you could also think about making materials and resources available free of charge that can help us to take that responsibility more easily, for example self-tests, wider than school alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u105	And other measures that would be easy to distribute, such as mouth caps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u106	I see there's going to be more interruptions. It's now above last week's level at this time, so we're gonna walk out again if I'm extrapolating now, like last week. No, that's not addressed to you, that's to the interrupters. Of course, you are welcome, but we are going to keep it a little tight today and not have another very broad policy debate. So I would like to limit interruptions and preferably also save them to your own term, as you yourself called for at the beginning of the day. Mr Verkerk, a short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u107	To be honest, I do not think Mr Schalk's answer is sharp enough, because everything shows that we can bear our own responsibility towards 1.5 metres, towards hand washing, towards mouth caps; mention all these basic measures. I fear that your supporters, my supporters and the supporters of each party have difficulties in complying with these basic measures. So I don't think your answer is sharp enough; excuse for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u108	Mr. Chairman. I didn't know I was so polarizing that I called a lot of people to the microphone. I understand that you say, "I don't think you're sharp enough," but I've been very brief. I would have mentioned a number of measures, but for the sake of time I will not do so now. But here's another thing: your supporters, my supporters and many more supporters in this room find that they are actually less inclined to follow, because every time there is a lot of compulsion and urge, while I find offering responsibility something other than force. Maybe that's a better answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u109	I have to be honest, you didn't convince me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mrs. De Bruijn, I give you the opportunity to ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u111	One quick question. Mr Schalk is indeed saying: if we comply with the basic measures, we will come up with a whole end. But you are also familiar with the phenomenon that 1.5 meters simply cannot be everywhere and that also entrepreneurs have big problems, such as restaurants, restaurants, restaurants, which have much less capacity because of that 1.5 meters? Think also of the cultural sector and that sort of thing. That is precisely in those sectors where we want to introduce the corona ticket because it is simply impossible to keep up with that 1.5 meter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you for this question. I hope I didn't light up that I find it all easy and stuff. I also feel this pain for certain sectors you mention, in my case, for example, very much for the church. That is why we spend a great deal of time and energy on this. I agree with Mrs De Bruijn that the one and a half meter measure cannot be maintained everywhere. But that applies not only to non-essential shops and the like, but also to the essential ones. You're gonna need certain measures for that. That can be done, but I must not anticipate it, I understand from you, for example, the 1G measure. And, I told you, put materials and resources at your disposal, because you have a very nice and I think good mask for, uh, medically seen. Warehouses are full, and in a few months those things will seem to stop using. Make them available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u113	Thank you. Mr Karakus has the floor for a single question. No, Mrs De Bruijn, you cannot call through the hall. Mr Karakus, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u114	Sure, one question, but a brief introduction. I think it's a nice story about own responsibility. Of course, we welcome this and we must do so in a responsible society. But the question is this. The situation is urgent, care is under pressure, care personnel are under pressure. So as a government, you should take measures to relieve this healthcare sector. I don't get that in your story. That too is a responsibility of all of us. How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u115	In the six minutes that I was given, I did not discuss all these aspects, but I very much agree with my colleague. We must take action, and so does the Minister. The SGP really is not of any measure. Most of the measures, I look at the Minister, he knows... We have supported almost all the measures so far. The tricky thing about this law is that the SGP thinks that we see it as a real stepping stone to that division, to that exclusion and to the further polarization that that can bring about. Actually, that's what I'm making my point about. I hope that we can have some kind of reversal where we are not going to be servants but are going to offer the people responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you. Then I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u117	I'm reopening the meeting. I call Mrs Nanninga of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. In the retorica, it is a good practice to identify forgeries. A forgery is, if we put it briefly, a false argument. The rules of distraction in the logic are defined and even those rules are still subject to discussion, but this precision is not for misguided reasons. For the ill-understander, every argument has a smell. And, of course, there are obvious deceptions, but what about something that is sometimes regarded as a deception, namely the inclined plane? Let me take an example. If we introduce measure one, we should not be surprised if this leads to measure two, partly justified by the earlier introduction of measure one. Anyone who can imagine little about this should think about the corona measures. Some of them are perfectly justified, no doubt about it, and we support the cabinet in that. But let's just think about the QR code as an indication of a vaccination status or a possibility of infection. The question is which medical function the vaccination status is derived from. And here again a repeated question to the Minister. If, according to the cabinet, QR is the solution, what about the serological test for people who have been through corona as ground to get a QR code? This can simply be introduced tomorrow; it has been asked a great many times, but the Minister is stalling. I'd like an answer. The sloping plane seems to be invented for what's happening now with the QR codes. Only it's not called a sloping plane, but it's also called function creep. Function creep is the use of information for purposes other than those for which the information was originally intended and/or collected. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and my group have asked urgent questions about this, which have been answered badly and evasively by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This bill aims to further extend the application of the QR codes. In fact, the cabinet wants to make another practical distinction between vaccinees and unvaccinated people. My group does not think that this is appropriate. Our group also has serious doubts about the feasibility of this legislative proposal. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, it appears that one in three visitors in the catering sector are not checked for the corona admission certificate; in sports canteens, this number is already two thirds. From this my group states that it is impossible for entrepreneurs to take on this often intensive enforcement task. After almost two years of restrictions with some major financial consequences, these entrepreneurs have other things on their mind than to refuse potential customers. However, the cabinet chooses to assign even more entrepreneurs a enforcement role. This seems to my group to be unwise, ineffective and also dangerous. We all know how aggressive some people are in this game. Moreover, this is, of course, a textbook example of a sloping plane. You know: the argument that warns against the further consequence of a given statement or practice. And that is exactly what is happening here, because anyone who agrees to this bill has less reason to oppose an even more far-reaching proposal for QR codes. Consistency is still better to determine than a forgery, let's just say. Why does it play slopingly flat? Why is the application of QR codes constantly being extended? Why is there a policy on this? Because this cabinet seems to have completely lost control. Policy is not consistently driven by a fixed factor or a fixed set of factors. Real concrete criteria, perhaps with the exception of the dreaded code black, are lacking. The lack of criteria makes the sloping plane even more slippery. There is always a factor, a matrix, a category, a figure, a criterion to invent as justification for yet another application of QR codes. I would like to remind you of the series of questions that Mr Nicolaï has just asked, or should I say 'passionately fired'. Where are the boosters? Where are the free self-tests? Where are the covid centers? Where is the increase in test capacity, the strength of action? I listened to his questions like he wasn't rhetorical. I expect very precise answers from the Minister. On the basis of this swirling and unclear policy, my group also has a motion to clarify these criteria in any case. We cannot agree to this very far-reaching legislation. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I call Mr Van der Voort of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of completeness, I repeat my work at the hospital with corona patients. For a more detailed statement on this matter, please refer to my text at the start of last week's debate. The Corona debates are fast following each other. Following the Approval Act last week, we are standing here for the Corona Access Card in non-essential retail and services. If it all succeeds in the House of Representatives, there will be three legislative proposals to our Chamber which will have to be dealt with in the short term. What does that mean? Why so many legislative proposals and with such urgency? Has the legislator, cabinet and parliament together, in the last year and a half too much reactive rather than proactively considering legislation? After all, from the moment a vaccine came into view, it was foreseen that vaccinees would play a different role in the epidemiological distribution than non-vaccines. Couldn't the cabinet's forward thinking be able to complete the toolbox that is the Temporary Law measures covid-19 with a user manual for the use of the tools in conjunction with each other? The D66 Group is happy to receive a response from the Minister on reactive versus proactive action. Last week we discussed the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 through the Approval Act, which we are voting on today. This does not yet include the use of the corona access card in non-essential retail and non-essential services. A complete toolbox is necessary for a sound long-term policy in a pandemic elevation of SARS-CoV-2 virus. It is not surprising in itself to add this use of the corona tickets. The corona admission ticket is already used in events, culture, organised youth activities, catering and sports. This includes non-essential retailing and services. It is a relatively small legal step to extend the application of the CTB. It is a small step, but the application is closer to everyday life, for example if you want to buy shoes or clothes. Shopping for this can be for unvaccinated, but must be tested in advance. With the expansion of the CTB, the tension between individual freedom versus taking responsibility for society becomes increasingly visible. But, yes, if closing non-essential retail is the alternative, then it affects everyone, including the vaccinees. That was proportional when there were no vaccines, but a year later the balance is different. The application of the present measure is determined by the Cabinet and the House of Representatives under ministerial rules. That is why it is important for us in this Chamber to clarify this matter in advance. After all, after that, there is no more control over this Chamber. The question is therefore whether the Minister can inform us when the application of the CTB in these sectors is appropriate. The VWS Minister and also the Prime Minister have said that there must be a significant reduction in the number of infections before other measures start to work again. What degree of contagion is the cabinet thinking? In other words, at what point in the reduction of infections can the CTB be used in non-essential retail and services? Is that necessarily the same situation in the case of an increasing number of infections, or are hospital and ic recordings leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u121	A brief question to Mr Van der Voort. I heard him say, "It's this or close." But there are other measures in between, aren't there? It's not black and white, is it? There's still a lot in there, isn't there? 1.5 meters, maximum number of people inside. It's not the corona pass or closing, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u122	No, Mr Janssen is quite right about that. There are, of course, many options, but I have highlighted this option, because of course it would be very far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u123	Thank you for Mr Van der Voort's reply, but that means that it is not really a question of whether we do the corona ticket or close the shops. There are other possibilities and they may be more proportionate. But that is what the debate is about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u124	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u125	Let me put a question to Mr Van der Voort. I understand from his argument that he says that this should only be applied to a low number of infections and so on. Or did I misunderstand that? If I have understood correctly, how can we prevent the Minister from going back to this Chamber at some point after the adoption of this law, but can he actually make his own choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u126	That is exactly the question our group has to the Minister. What time is this gonna be deployed? Is that indeed with a low number of infections or with a high number or perhaps already? It has previously been suggested that such measures are useful if the number of infections is lower than they are at present. That's exactly the question. Moreover, I think that is true, but that is something I would like to point out in my speech, which is that action must always be taken in conjunction with one another. That's the mixing panel I was talking about last week. I'm going to say a little more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u127	Does that mean that for D66 it is a no-go if the Minister states: I want to take those measures even if the level of infection is very high?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u128	That has been said a little too firmly. We do believe that any measure is more effective in one situation than in another. On the basis of the answers we will receive later, we will see whether this is indeed seen by the cabinet and whether we feel the same or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. The contagion takes place in the meeting. In order to combat the pandemic, it is therefore obvious to reduce meetings. To what extent does the corona admission ticket in the present bill do this? Or is the CTB not so much about reducing the number of meetings, but about reducing the risk of infection in that meeting? After all, vaccinees and negative tested are less likely to actively secrete the virus. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. The proposed measure fits in with what we called "the second category of measures" last week. In the first category are general measures such as keeping away, mouth caps, etc. In view of the mixing panel of the four categories, which we discussed last week, it seems sensible for the D66 Group to always combine the use of the CTB in non-essential retail with an appropriate amount of general measures in the first category. Does the Minister agree with us? The present second category measure is intended to protect unvaccinated against infection with SARS-CoV-2 virus. The disease caused by this virus is very serious in some people. Anything but a flu, as is sometimes claimed. It is also for this reason that the D66 Group is in agreement with the extension of the Twm with this measure. That does not alter, as has been said, the fact that we consider it important to find out more clearly in the answer given by the Minister than in the explanatory statement and more clearly than in the answer given to our written questions in what circumstances the present measure will be used. A quote from the explanatory statement: "This ensures that the use of the CTB takes place only if this is necessary from an epidemiological point of view." We call on the Minister, on the grounds of feasibility, to strengthen this necessity. Finally, Mr President, two implementing questions. First. The implementation requires a considerable effort on the part of the entrepreneurs, and they have been working so creatively and decisively to keep their organisation running over the last year and a half. We wonder if there are opportunities to make it workable for entrepreneurs. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this. Furthermore, the D66 fraction wonders whether the test capacity is sufficient to process the increase in testing related to this measure. The message is that the test capacity is at the maximum. Mr. Chairman. So much for our first-term input. We await the answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr Frentrop has the floor, but not before we have listened to Mr Nicolaï's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u132	I would like to draw Mr Van der Voort's attention to the information contained in the RIVM bulletin of 23 November. It says that 122,000 of the fully vaccinated have now been tested positively. Those are people who have been tested with complaints. In August, that was 16,000. We're at almost nine or ten times as much now. That doesn't include the people who haven't been tested. Doesn't that point out that the effectiveness of the vaccine is decreasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u133	I share Mr Nicolaï's concern about the rising levels of infection among both unvaccinated and vaccinated people. Fortunately, once vaccinated people are infected, they have a less serious disease than unvaccinated ones, on average. In that sense, you can say that the vaccines are effective against serious behaviour, namely hospitalisation and ic-taking, and they remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thank you. Mr. Nicolaï, another follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u135	My question was not whether they are effective against admission, but whether they are effective against dissemination, because that is what we are talking about under the law that we are discussing today. My question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u136	No, you had not had your question answered, so Mr Van der Voort is still trying to formulate an answer to see if you are satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u137	It has also been shown that the infectiousness of vaccinees is lower than that of unvaccinated patients. I therefore believe that the answer should be that they also partly protect against transmission of the virus to others. Whether you consider the amount of protection against it sufficient is a matter of your own interpretation, and Mr. Nicolaï interprets that differently than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u138	Mr. Nicolaï, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u139	The question under the law we are discussing is whether the protection is still equivalent to the protection resulting from a test. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u140	And then from you the answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u141	My question to Mr Van der Voort is: could it not be that the protection of vaccinees from transmission, transmission, has become so much lower that there is no longer any reason to accept the vaccine certificate with the corona ticket, as is the case under the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u142	I understand very well where Mr. Nicolaï is going with this. It is true that vaccinees can also be contagious for the unvaccinated people who walk around the same store with a negative test certificate. But the whole corona policy is, of course, a coherence of opportunities that you regulate with all the measures that exist. In the consideration of all these opportunities, the Minister also asks us in certain settings, in order to define them, this measure seems to be lawful and also useful to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u143	One more time, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u144	Perhaps it is more of a question for the group colleague, Mr Backer, because this is a legal question. It says in the law that the use of the vaccine certificate is only permitted if it has been established that the infectiousness of a vaccinated person is less than the infectiousness of someone who has been tested? That's just what the law says, so it's not a matter of action; it's a matter of legality. My question is legal, and D66 is always very legal: is it true that we are now going to extend a law if it may have to be established that vaccination no longer provides that protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u145	If this law is in force and applied, it can of course always be applied against it. Anyone can, of course, contradict that and see if they are right. But our estimate of the figures, as we have seen from the RIVM, is that the infectiousness of those who have the corona access card is so low that this legislation is applicable to the way it was set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u146	You'll have to deal with that, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u147	I have another question for Mr Van der Voort. We know from yesterday's reports that one fifth of the elderly who have been vaccinated die in nursing homes. We also know that in almost half of the nursing homes there are infections now. What do you and your group think of that image? Otherwise, what measures could be taken in your view to contain this as quickly as possible? Of course, I referred to the boosters. I assume you agree. But what do you think of the situation and what else can be done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u148	Of course, we also find it extremely worrying that the clients in the nursing homes get more infected there and also show signs of disease, even until death. That's a situation that I think everyone is unwelcome. We are therefore very pleased that the booster campaign has started. It should protect many of these residents from a renewed serious illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u149	I think it is a rather lean answer, because you say that your group is pleased that the booster campaign is about to begin. But we know from other countries that it happened there much earlier. In any case, do you agree with our group that this should have been done much earlier? Because it didn't happen before, should you not just be glad that we start now, but that there should be a very large booster capacity and already this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u150	We, as D66, have always called for the booster campaign to be launched as soon as possible. Whether it's been too late is a judgment I can't make like that. But it is true that other countries have started earlier. In our view, it could have helped if we had started that campaign with each other earlier, surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u151	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u152	Finally, in addition to the booster campaign, do you see any other measures for nursing homes to quickly reduce this mortality? Because, of course, this is inhumane.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u153	We are in favour of a combination of measures. I think that in a nursing home there is not much else to do than to vaccinate and booster, and to apply the general hygiene measures as much as possible. But of course they are places where both vulnerable people find themselves and at the same time there is a circumstance in which a virus is easily transmitted in the intimate contacts that exist in such a situation. So it's still a very fragile situation. That's what we have to pay the highest attention to each other. Together with the sector, we need to see whether we can use the measures that help us, so these are all these general measures and vaccination and boosters as optimally as possible. But I share the concern that is expressed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u154	Thank you. Then there is another question from Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr. Van der Voort indicates that vaccinees are less contagious than unvaccinated. I wonder what he's basing that on. You get tested and then you're either positive or negative. The infection depends on the virus load you're carrying. You can only know that if you know how many cycles have been run in testing to copy the piece of DNA copied from the RNA. And then you need to know which cycle was selected. Is that familiar? Do you have those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u156	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u157	I think it's something else. A positive test is released as within a certain number of cycles that virus RNA is detected. That's not directly relevant to the corona pass. There you get a tick or not if your test is negative or not. The number of cycles is not mentioned. Nor is it possible to say that with fewer cycles one is per se more contagious or less contagious than the other. So the addition of the number of cycles with which that test was determined is a kind of false safety. In any case, you create more noise that doesn't help with the use of these corona tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u158	Mrs Faber, was it clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u159	Yes, thank you, Mr President, but now we are actually getting to the heart of the problem. Mr. Van der Voort says that the corona access card doesn't indicate the cycle at which someone was detected to be positive. Look, that's what I'm talking about, because you're actually not contagious anymore above 35 duplications. That's just scientifically proven. In a letter from the Minister under the Public Administration Act, the Minister indicated that as many as 40 to 45 cycles are going on. So it's definitely relevant. Here we can see that it is a form of false safety. The number of cycles that have been rotated and where it has been read out is certainly relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u160	Then what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u161	So I do not agree with Mr Van der Voort that it is irrelevant. Isn't it the case that false safety is created because you don't know to what extent someone is contagious or not? This is not indicated on the corona access card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u162	No, about the use of these cycle times you can find anything, but there are scientific studies and there is also consensus about it within laboratory medicine. Certain standards have been established in which such a test is positive or negative. That has been done very carefully. So I do not think it is appropriate to question the way in which such a test, as is done by experts, is carried out here. I have studied this before professionally, and I think that has been done very carefully. That's how we use these tests, and that's how we have to keep doing it here. So the scientific basis for that must be accepted as it is, because it has been done properly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u163	One last time, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u164	Mr President, thank you for your support. Look, I think it's too easy. The PCR method is a method to multiply DNA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u165	Mrs Faber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u166	This is very relevant, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u167	Sure, sure, but I suggest you come to a question, because I think Mr. Van der Voort knows those details. So if you come to the question, we'll keep an eye on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u168	Mr President, if you will allow me, this is very relevant. We are talking about the number of infections and then it is important to identify what an infection is. If you'll allow me, I'd very much like to explain. It is true that the PCR test is a method of multiplying DNA. The virus is a RNA string. That RNA string is converted into a DNA string. That's where a primer is released to illuminate and duplicate that particular piece. The more RNA is present, the more specific pieces you get up as the number of circles increases. So if I only have one thing and another has 100, then you have a different outcome for for example 25, 30 or 40 duplicates. What I'm trying to say is that if you have very little of that piece on you, you're hardly contagious. That's just as well substantiated as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u169	But now you really need to come to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u170	Then I'll come to the question. Mr. Van der Voort says it doesn't matter and that it's all irrelevant, but it's certainly relevant. Mr. Van der Voort, you can't be in your profession... you're a doctor, for God's sake; you need to know clearly how such a test works. Then you say, "No matter how many of those pieces you have with you." You can't do that, can you? Surely it affects to what extent you carry that genetic material, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u171	That was your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u172	I'm not saying it doesn't matter. I say that good scientific research has been done on how these tests can be applied. That's well done. That is what we, as politicians, are doing, and that is what we, as medical practitioners, are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u173	There's another question from Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u174	I have great respect for Mr Van der Voort's medical expertise, including in this area. There is, of course, infection in vaccinees. That's not up for discussion either. Now I understand as if there's a difference in corona. For example, if you are vaccinated for measles or polio you are no longer contagious, but with corona that is different, because it lingers somewhere in the airways. Could you perhaps explain to us and perhaps to the Minister why this vaccine does not prevent infection and why this is the case with other diseases? Can we learn something in terms of behavior that we should and should not do? Now that we have you here, we can ask that question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u175	You may give a brief answer, but we do not need a lecture now. Please give a political answer to a political question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u176	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. I also thought we were getting into a medical treatise. I'm not a virologist. I couldn't tell you exactly. In practice, it's like Mr. Otten says, and we're gonna have to do it with it. It is a good question to face once in a debate with doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u177	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I now give the floor to Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u178	Mr. Chairman. The emperor has no clothes on. Do you know that fairy tale of Hans Christian Andersen? The story is about an emperor making his tailor more expensive robes. Eventually he made something very special; a substance that only very smart people can see. No one dared admit that he or she didn't see that dust, for fear of being called stupid, until a child in the audience shouted, "Hey, the emperor walks barefoot!" I think it's the same with the corona pass. The usefulness of this is only visible to so-called smart people, but in fact the corona access card does not prove anything about corona, as vaccine inflation has increased even more than financial inflation. Such a corona pass would be useful if it proved whether someone was carrying the virus or not and if this person could infect other people. But that's not what the corona admission ticket does, as we've heard extensively. Mr Nicolaï underlined this once again. When you wake up in the morning with symptoms like high fever, as vaccinated coughing and tasting, you can enter anywhere with that coronapas and infect everyone there. That whole app is pointless. However, we are now being presented with a proposal to extend the application of this nonsensical instrument. First, the government lets one citizen control the other citizen under threat of severe punishment, then the government is amazed at the increasing polarisation in society and today the government is proposing to have more citizens control other citizens. A government like that has no clothes on. Someone has to say that, and I think that's the task of this Upper Chamber. What does the corona pass actually do in the throes of compliance, control and enforcement? Nothing good. On the contrary, it creates false security and makes those who have such a corona access card more sloppy in compliance with the basic rules. We all get a lot of e-mails from worried people. I'll read you one I recently received from a nurse. He said, "The QR codes are insane. All the basic rules are released and then poke and then go." She was tested a few days ago and was in a museum with a mask. There most of the 60-plussers walked around without a mouth cap, partly coughing and tasting. But as a vaccinee, you can do anything and you do it. I quote this above all in response to what Mr Verkerk and Mr Van Gurp said. They said: the vaccination certificate can help to prevent the spread. But it can also help to promote dissemination, because people carelessly handle their own responsibility through that app. That was about compliance. The corona pass is bad for compliance. Then I'll come to the checkup. What does the green check mark actually control? That green check mark only checks whether the person concerned has followed the government's non-compulsory recommendation to be vaccinated. Why do hundreds of thousands of shopkeepers have to check with other citizens to see if they have followed the advice of the government? Then I'll come to enforcement. Why is it that citizens who have been appointed as auditors bear a fine if they do not properly check whether another citizen has followed the advice of the government? The only Keijzer who saw that this government wasn't wearing any clothes was expelled from the government in September. Forum for Democracy calls on the government to stop rapping against corona. The first app, the CoronaMelder, was already a pointless exercise. The second app, the corona pass, makes no sense now that vaccinees also transfer the virus. Do something. Increase the capacity in hospitals or take the measures proposed today by Mr Nicolaï and last week by GroenLinks. The corona pass is only a means of bullying unvaccinated people. There is no compulsory vaccination. Mr. Chairman. More and more of the immunity among the population is due to people who have received natural immunity because they have been ill, not because they have been vaccinated. The Democracy Forum calls for the protection of the rights of non-vaccines. I would like to conclude with a quote from Nieuwsuur last Saturday: "The largest groups of non-vaccinators can be found in the three major cities and then specifically in neighbourhoods where many people live with a non-Western background." Don't go bullying these people anymore, I'll call on the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u179	There is another question from Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u180	It is clear that the ic's are full of 60% to 70% unvaccined. I've consulted with a number of medics this weekend. Your party leader calls on everyone every day not to take the vaccine, because that is poison and you should not be injected with poison. Now, last year when the corona broke out, Mr Frentrop was one of the great supporters of a digital quorum, so he didn't have to come here because he was so afraid of corona. My question to Mr Frentrop is very simple, taking into account everything that your party is spreading all day about not vaccinating: have you been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u181	That's an interesting, non-political question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u182	You may answer, but you do not have to answer him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u183	I'd like to answer it. Yeah, I've been vaccinated. I think it wise to do so, partly because of my weight, I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u184	I share that conclusion. But it follows from this that you have not followed the urgent advice of your party leader. That's what I'm concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u185	That's a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u186	Can I say something about that, Mr. Chairman? At D66 we have a recognized medical practitioner here as a spokesperson, but otherwise I would advise against following medical advice from any party leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u187	That's a great variant. All right. I missed your last sentence. You were talking about neighborhoods with people with a migration background. What was your advice to the government? I missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u188	I argued that the Corona Access Card is a pointless activity and is just something to bully people. I say stop bullying the people who haven't been vaccinated. They have the right not to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u189	So it was a general call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u190	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u191	You specifically mentioned neighborhoods with residents with a migration background. But it was a general call?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u192	No, no, it was a general call not to bully people who were deliberately not vaccinated. You can call people: go vaccinate if you have medical reasons. But don't go bullying people. I feel like the corona access card is just doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u193	Mr. Verkerk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u194	I am aware that the corona access card and the QR code can also have negative behavioural effects. I have many examples of this, but I still think Mr Frentrop is using rather big words, even when he speaks of 'bullying'. I have something to say about that. Last week, your party leader said we should stop listening to the assholes in white coats. I am ashamed to quote this, but if this is said, every ground will be removed from Mr Frentrop's speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u195	That was an observation. Do you have any reaction to that, Mr. Frentrop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u196	Well, no, I'm just gonna stop responding to things that haven't been said here in the First Chamber, because then I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u197	Thank you. You had come to the end of your speech. I now give the floor to Mrs Prins on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u198	Mr. Chairman. Last week we discussed in detail here in the First Chamber the enormous impact of the COVID-19 virus on our society, on our way of life and on our care. Unfortunately, this impact will be even stronger due to the fact that the number of infections and hospitalisations remains high, but also due to the arrival of the new omikron variant. More erratic and more contagious are the first signs of it. This is again proof of the unpredictability of this virus and proof that measures to prevent infection are necessary and, we fear, will remain so for the time being. Mr. Chairman. Today, therefore, we are focusing on the legislative proposal before us: an extension of the use of corona tickets in non-essential retail and non-essential services. The CDA Group understands that the Cabinet wishes to extend its toolbox of temporary measures to combat contamination and thus prevent the complete closure of non-essential shops. At the same time, in particular, the drafting of the law raises a number of questions which we would like to see clarified. Through the Bikker/De Vries amendment, the law now offers the possibility to make the choice between using the corona ticket or maintaining 1.5 meters with mouth caps. Can the Minister state what criteria are used for the elaboration of this in the ministerial regulation? Wouldn't the use of a maximum number of visitors per store based on 1.5 meters and mouth caps be much more practical? This also prevents a distinction between essential and non-essential shops. In doing so, this ensures uniformity in policy and a more unambiguous communication is possible. We would like to receive an explanation. An additional argument in this regard is that the discussions and the often intense differences of opinion about the use of this ticket between forerunners and opponents at the entrance of a store can be avoided. A large retail trade had already started to use so-called control columns for the corona admission ticket in advance last week. Unfortunately, this has led to fights and even to the invoking of the police. Some customers do not want to cooperate and express this aggressively. The shopkeepers are usually not trained to cope with such aggression, apart from whether they are willing to do so. Mr. Chairman. We understand that, given the importance of staying open, the retail trade wants to participate in the implementation of this law. However, in addition to the concerns about the discussions at the shop door as described above, there are also concerns about the practical feasibility of this law or, in terms of enforcement, compliance with the law. The non-essential retail trade, with some 56,000 shops in our country, also suffers from a large shortage of employees. They have over 30,000 vacancies. In addition, unlike the catering industry, most visitors come in and out for a short time. In other words, the traffic flows are much larger than in the hospitality sector and they therefore require additional staffing at various shops. Can the Minister indicate how the retail sector is supported to actually implement these measures? Mr. Chairman. Additional measures have been in force since Sunday. Citizens and entrepreneurs have to deal day in and day out with measures, with restrictions in their actions and leave them to undertake their business. The CDA Group understands this, given the need to reduce the number of infections and hospitalisations and to be able to take on regular and critical care quickly again. It does, however, ask the government to make an extra effort on accessible and understandable communication, in support of the need and effectiveness of the whole package of measures, particularly as support for the entrepreneurs who will soon have to implement this law in practice. We are curious about the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and his staff once again for answering our written questions. During last week's debate, on behalf of the VVD Group, I indicated that I was in favour of a broader use of the corona access card, although we would have liked the legal framework to have been extended earlier. The corona access card is not a means of combating an outbreak like the one we are currently in, but can help to limit the spread of the virus. It can also slow down the influx to care. By applying the corona access ticket, facilities may be provided, which is at least the intention to remain open longer or to be opened earlier. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group believes that these instruments should be in the toolbox, even if they are not applied directly. The system of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is designed in such a way that measures can be put on and off by ministerial regulation. In this case, the proportionality is weighed over and over again. Where measures are no longer required, a quarterly decision may be taken not to extend the measures in the Temporary Law measures. This legislative proposal offers the possibility of an additional step between closing and opening up non-essential retail and services, alongside all kinds of other possibilities. I would also like to point out that this is the 3G pass, so you can be vaccinated, cured and tested. About 2G, without the G of "tested," we may get to talk later. On the question of feasibility, I would like to mention the amendments adopted by Bikker and Aukje de Vries, which have been mentioned many times today. This allows the minister concerned to provide per ministerial arrangement that no corona access card is requested in shops where the safe distance standard is a more proportionate measure than the use of the corona access card. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group did not in itself need a plenary session today, but if the majority of the Chamber so wishes, then we have respect for this. But let's do it compactly. Our country and the world have been facing a huge challenge for more than a year and a half, which demands extra alertness from us as parliamentarians when it comes to safeguarding the values of the democratic rule of law. But how useful is it to continue to seize the time of our rulers, as we do now? As a parliament, have we not gone too far in this respect? Especially in times of crisis, directors have more to do than to speak to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Van Goethe were the wise words: in der Beschränkung says sich erst der Meister. In self-limitation, mastery is evident. That's something to reflect on as a room. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u201	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. Thank you for your lovely quote from Goethe. But there is another question from Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u202	I understand Mrs De Bruijn's appeal, but it is actually very simple. There is a law before it and it must be dealt with in the Second and First Chambers. So you can call for that not to be done, but I do not understand very well how that can be done. That was the first question. The second question is this. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman rightly said that we should also look at the constitutional aspects. Does it not see any tension between the current legislative proposal and the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u203	Thank you for the question. About the first part. I didn't say we shouldn't treat the law. I merely said that we did not need a plenary debate on this. A lot of legitimate questions came by this morning. You must realise that there are a lot of concerns about the corona epidemic and that sort of thing. So there are a lot of questions that I say: okay, I can really imagine that those questions are alive. We also agreed in committee, for example, that we should give each other the freedom to discuss these matters in writing. I'd like to answer that. As regards the constitutional framework, we also explained in detail last week that we will simply have to take measures in the context of public health at some point. This, too, is not a 100% final measure. He may contribute a bit to limiting the spread of the virus, but certainly not 100%. We therefore see it as part of a comprehensive package. In doing so, we consider the burden that the corona virus places on public health and on hospitals, and we want to have as many tools as possible to deal with this at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u204	Thank you for the first part of the answer. I'm not going into that any further. The second part was about the constitutional side. Does Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman agree with my group that at least there is tension in this constitutional law, such as Articles 1, 10, 11 and 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u205	Tension with Article 1 on discrimination, I do not agree. Being unvaccinated is still a choice. This is different from what the law means by discrimination. On the other hand, constitutional rights can be barrened, but that is why I deliberately referred to Article 22 of the Constitution, which refers to the fact that it is also an obligation to protect public health. This also means maintaining the health care system, because other people also have a right to care. So it is not just people who end up very sick in a hospital with corona, but also all those other people, for whom surgery is now being postponed; they are also entitled to care. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u206	Mr. Schalk, one final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u207	One last, of course. Maybe we should talk about the non-vaccines. Not being vaccinated is also a right that people have on the basis of conscientious objection. I'm not talking about wappies, I'm talking about conscientious objectors, who look at vaccination in a way. This should not then be subject to any prohibited distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u208	That's right, you're right. But for these people, too, we must ensure that they are at the least at risk of becoming infected. Such a corona ticket is also aimed at this, and so are many of the other corona measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u209	Then there is a question from Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u210	We're talking about a law today. It has to be done anyway. Then you also have to look at proportionality and whether there are any other means to put the situation in order. How do Mrs De Bruijn and the VVD look at this scheme in the NRC which shows that we are dangling at the bottom when it comes to the booster?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u211	Mr President, I think this is out of order, but I will give you a brief answer. I've been surprised at the system. We've organized the system so that we listen to the Health Council. I was surprised by the extensive consideration that took place there after a rather long discussion whether or not it was necessary. In fact, I would like to make the plea, and I heard that in the news too, the Health Council has been passing by somewhere in this situation just to ask whether it is really irresponsible to do the booster so that a decision can be taken more quickly. I think that is why we started the campaign earlier. After that, of course, we only started organizing it. I said something about that last time. That kind of thing should go faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u212	That was an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u213	But let me come back to the question of exactly what we are going to do with boosters. A crisis expert said: set up tents, bring in the army and let it help. Students can also give a shot. Anything else happen? Is there any more creativity? Is that what society can expect from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u214	What exactly happens, I don't decide. To me is the minister who deals with the execution. I'd like to address it very personally. I'm an old nurse. I did indeed see if I could make a contribution myself by poking. I can see, for example, that I can't apply if it's been more than ten years since I poked. I don't have to apply. I don't have to have any income for it either. I just want to help out by doing this job. That is why the rules are too restrictive. I've put thousands of shots in my life. So call on anyone who says: I want to contribute to that and I can do that; let us prick for half an hour, and then we join in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u215	Thank you. I suggest we leave it at that. Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. I now give the floor to Mr Otten of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u216	Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is approaching a boiling point. The tension in society is rising rapidly and antivaxers have stirred up a small but very noisy minority against the benevolent majority of the Netherlands. Now we're dealing with a vaccination frenzy that drives whole families, families and groups of friends apart. A combination of disinformation, override, political incompetence and a lack of action has now produced a toxic mixture in this coronal cooker. Last week the Minister was still in denial, but now there is no denying it: code black is approaching with raging strides. The present bill is trying to do something about this, but our group doubts whether this bill will have a significant impact on the prevention of code black. About 12% of the Dutch population, the unvaccinated, is now responsible for half of hospital intakes and about 70% of ic occupation. This small group is putting enormous pressure on the care system, which, unfortunately, was not scaled up in time by this minister. But even worse: many other people who are waiting for important surgeries, such as heart surgery or any other urgent procedure, are now put in the waiting room because the unvaccinated are ahead. I refer to the Council of State, which also said that the decision not to vaccinate must be respected, but at the same time is not entirely non-binding because of the consequences for others, but above all because of the consequences for care. As we know, the average covid patient is 18 days on the ic and a heart patient only one day, so the capacity implications for regular care are immense. It is now painfully clear what the fundamental structural errors have been in this cabinet's corona approach. These faults of construction refuse to recognize the cabinet and they are repeatedly split into the stomach with all kinds of half-hearted patchwork by the population. Think about the control at the non-essential stores. Polderen, meetings, consultations: this cabinet is very good at that. And whatever the minister's got his head in, he's hiding behind OMT's advice. The OMT is a wheelbarrow full of frogs that jump in all directions and contradict each other every night in the talk shows. Mr. Chairman. If the need for our promoted chief medical officer was ever clear, then it is now. On Saturday afternoon Boris Johnson gave a short and clear press conference on the new variant of the virus. That was a five-minute press conference in which he announced the new measures related to the Omikron virus, followed by a brief explanation by Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty. "We're going to boost the booster campaign," was the message. 16 million British have already been boosted, and now 0.5 million British a day. We still have to start in the Netherlands. In the UK there is no OMT in talk shows and there are no changing experts every night, but there are just people who clearly tell the people what is done about it, what is done about it and what needs to be done; that is how it can be done. With this law corona admissions for non-essential retail, the Minister is now trying to fight some symptoms, but he is again not addressing the underlying causes of the problems. It is a package of measures that came out as a compromise after endless meetings and polders and trying to align the OMT members. As mentioned by previous speakers, a QR code is not a guarantee of non-infectiousness, unfortunately. So a complicated law that is actually meant as a punishment exercise to raise the vaccination readiness of 2 million unvaccinated adult Dutch people. But it is a law with enormous consequences, for example for entrepreneurs and people in the hospitality industry. Mr. Chairman. It is now time for unorthodox or, if you like, unconventional measures. Unconventional measures in the human sphere, in the organisational sphere and also in an approach to tackle those unvaccinated more unorthodoxly. Because they are now taking a huge toll on the care. If you want these 2 million unvaccinated adults who are currently holding our healthcare system hostage to be vaccinated, then in our view, more effective measures are possible than the current law. And also measures that are less collateral damage than this bill. I see a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u217	I saw him too. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u218	Mr Otten proposes to take unorthodox measures for people who have not been vaccinated. We know the Constitution with what it says about the integrity of the human body. Can Mr Otten explain what he means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u219	Yeah, that's a very good question, I'm getting to that now. We have a proposal that addresses precisely this objection of yours, I think, and also leaves the integrity of the human body completely intact. Nor are we, certainly not now, in favour of a vaccination obligation, if that is your concern. But I'm getting to the point, so I'm gonna continue my argument. So what we need are unorthodox measures, proposals where the bill goes more to the people who consciously do not vaccinate and who are so consciously at a much higher risk of getting onto the ic, compared to vaccinees. As I said, our group is not in favour of a vaccination obligation because we believe that other measures can be tested which go less than a vaccination obligation. As far as we are concerned, I should like to conclude by saying that I see a number of other questions, and that is a very effective measure to introduce an own risk for unvaccinated people who end up on the ic and are on average there for 18 days, and who make so many regular operations impossible, since people with scheduled operations in the regular care are usually only there for one or two days. Do you not want to vaccinate because you think that corona is "just a flu," as certain fractions here do not fail to tell you, or because according to this same fraction the vaccine is poison? Fine. Okay. Then the motto from now on becomes: put your money where your mouth is, stand up for your principles, therefore accept a higher risk if you accidentally get on the ic and those stories turn out to be wrong. In our view, this is a much more effective measure to relieve the burden of care than it is now with all kinds of complicated 2G and QR passes to harass entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u220	That raises a question for Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u221	I'm gonna ask Mr. Otten to repeat that one more time. I understand that so he's the burden...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u222	I suggest that he does not repeat it here, because we heard him and it is also noted. Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u223	Okay, I'll take that as an assumption if that's all right with you, Mr. President, to meet you. I hear Mr. Otten says that unvaccinated people should be billed. You want me to see that in health care or something? How does Mr. Otten see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u224	Here's what you could say. If you, as an unvaccinated person, deliberately do not want to participate in this, for whatever reason, then it simply has consequences, namely that other people and other operations are not entitled to care, because now those unvaccinated people go first. Then it's very simple, then we say: if you think as unvaccinated "nothing happens to me" or "I don't want to for all kinds of reasons," fine, but then put in a risk of your own. Of course, you want to hear the amount from me now; I am not about that; it is up to the Minister to choose an amount that works. You could say: if you're on the ICU for 18 days and you don't want to vaccinate, pay a few hundred euros a day through your health insurance for that own risk. Because that's a risk you've taken consciously. The vaccines are free. Anyone can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u225	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u226	It could be through the IRS if he can handle it. It seems to me that it can be done through health insurance. That was the question, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u227	The answer was already clear. Mrs Faber, do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u228	Then I wonder whether this also applies to people who are overweight. Even if you have been vaccinated, if you are overweight, you also have a better chance of being taken on the ic and lying there longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u229	Yeah, I've been reading that comment on Twitter a lot the last few days when I suggested this. I don't think overweight is contagious, Mrs Faber. At least I hope not for you. So that's another discussion. There are a lot of things to do in that regard. You can think of sugar taxes. They're thinking about that, too. Smoking and alcohol are subject to high excise duties. With all kinds of subsidies, we need to make it more sustainable, buy heat pumps...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u230	That was obvious. Do you have another follow-up question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u231	There are plenty of behavioural financial incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u232	The answer was clear. Do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u233	Mr President, thank you for trying to give me the floor. Of course, we cannot deny that fat is a reservoir for viruses. That's just common knowledge. The more virus you carry, the more contagious you are. I do not think this proposal is the right way forward. Then you also have to think about people who go to winter sports and break a leg, or about people who ride a motorcycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u234	And your question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u235	That's not contagious. That's not contagious, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u236	My question is, aren't we on a slippery slope? Even though you're not contagious, it has to do with the costs and taking a place in the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u237	The ic is not populated with victims of ski accidents, engine problems or overweight people. The ic is now full of unvaccinated. So we have that problem to solve. You can bring up skiing accidents, but if you want to skydiving, you also have to pay high premiums. You can talk about it all, but that's beside the point. It is now about unorthodox measures to solve this problem in healthcare. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u238	Mr. Schalk also wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u239	There is a great deal of enthusiasm for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u240	At least that last remark was not intended for me. I have a question for Mr Otten. He has argued that he sees the CTB as some kind of punishment exercise for unvaccinated people. How does he see his own proposal that people should contribute financially if they have not been vaccinated? Isn't that a punishment exercise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u241	No, that's a case of put your money where your mouth is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u242	Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u243	Excuse me? Put your money on what you find. Show the commitment you stand by your principles. If you say that you do not want to be vaccinated for all kinds of reasons, you will take the risk of getting into the ic. If you jump out of the plane with a parachute, you also risk not opening it. If you do that kind of activity, you have to pay a higher premium for your insurance. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u244	That's obvious. Do you have a follow-up question, Mr. Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u245	I may have a short equation. I understand that Mr Otten says that the Minister's CTB is a punishment exercise, while he comes up with another measure, namely that you have to pay as much as possible, which is not punishment exercise. I don't quite follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u246	That's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u247	It is not true what Mr Schalk is saying there. It is admitted that this law is intended to get more people to vaccinate, because then they can go back to the store. I don't think that's really gonna work. Moreover, we have already shown that vaccinees can also be contagious in the store. That also goes beyond the objective, apart from the constitutional aspects, which Mr Nicolaï also raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u249	No. It's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u250	The answer is clear. You're gonna have to do it with that, because we've got a whole line up. Mr Verkerk, you also have a question for Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u251	I have a question for Mr Otten. He says: overweight and other lifestyle-related diseases are not contagious. I'd like to say that if you look from a slightly broader perspective, they are contagious. It has to do with people's behavior. That means that from that perspective, it is almost impossible ethically not to ask whether your proposal for all those lifestyle-related diseases, which are socially contagious, should apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u252	If you want a life insurance policy, you get a discount if you don't smoke. Of course, that is all very well and good. But you shouldn't right now by calling in all kinds of other things to try to get rid of the code-black threat... There's never been a code black for people with ski accidents, overweight people or people with any kind of disease. We now have code black because this disease is highly contagious. And there's a new variant coming up. He's already here. It comes in daily via Schiphol, the national coronal, and then it gets much more contagious. So we must do something now, I say to Mr Verkerk. This law on the QR code is simply not enough for that. So it will take something more drastic to bring about this change in behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u253	Mr. Verkerk, do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u254	And there is still the freedom of choice whether you want to do it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u255	I regret to say that Mr Otten has not answered my question sufficiently. Your reaction will be that I have to do it with that. I'll do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u256	Yeah, it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u257	I would like to say to Mr Verkerk that you need to raise the question even more sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u258	Mr. Karakus has another question for you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u259	I'm going to make that attempt, Mr. Otten. That freedom of choice is linked to your financial side. If you can afford it financially, you have that choice. Then you can also be principled. But what do we do with people who do want to make that choice, but are not financially capable of doing so? Is that also your proposal to say that there should be a surcharge from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u260	You're inventing a new problem right away. As far as I'm concerned, you're gonna make it a principle of standing. That's pretty much what your party was founded for, I think. So you let someone with a lot of money pay more of their own risk than someone who can afford it less. But there's got to be some kind of incentive. I proposed this on social media last weekend, and I've never had so many thousands of threats, insults and intimidations. This strengthens me in the sense that this could be a very effective measure. It evokes so much anger in the wappies, because people think that might work very well. It is all up to the Minister that you agree on a different amount or make a different arrangement for certain groups that are in financial severe weather. I'm not the minister. I only come up with good ideas for how he can solve this. It's up to the Minister to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u261	So the answer was yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u262	My contribution was also more intended to give Mr Otten the opportunity to complete his story. My second question is: what do you think is contributing to the relief of care and what is your assessment of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u263	We have just heard from Mr Schalk that there are wappies and others unvaccinated. I understood that from Mr Schalk. So apparently there are different categories of unvaccinated people. I understand he's in that other category. But there are also "wappies" and "wappies." So there are wappies that threaten everyone, set police cars on fire and I know what to do, but there are also unvaccinated ones who are a little more lax and who are a little more on the hook. I think it is very good to get them moving with such a stimulus and that this can only increase the willingness of vaccination by a number of percentage points. And your party, I say to Mr Karakus, is precisely about controlling behavior through tax incentives. That's about your day job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u264	There's been another response from Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u265	Mr President, it is indeed not a question I have left, I just want to correct something I would have said. I've made a distinction between wappies and people who haven't been vaccinated from a conscientious objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u266	You continue your argument, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u267	So there are wappies and other unvaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u268	Your time is running again. No, Mr. Nicolaï also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u269	I have a question about that vaccination readiness. I referred in my speech to a contribution by Professor of Older People's Medicine Rudi Westendorp. He says: "Compare the Netherlands and Denmark. The vaccination rate is about the same and we have a problem, while there is no problem. Why does that vaccination rate need to go up? Isn't it true that there are other problems, namely that there is no banging and there is no testing? Isn't that much more important?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u270	It's en-and. You mentioned the dogs Booster and Tester. I thought that was a very good summary. We've read that after two years of corona, the test system still can't handle more than 100,000 tests. That's why we stick to these 20,000 infections every day. The system just can't take it anymore. That's your one doggy, Tester. As far as Booster is concerned, half a million boosters per day are given in the United Kingdom. There they are standing in line with people, I saw this morning, and 16 million people have already been toasted. And we are dangling at the bottom with Bulgaria; you or anyone else have noticed that. So I totally agree: testing and booster. That is of course a no-brainer; we have to do that anyway, but one does not exclude the other. We are talking about Mr Van der Voort's mixing panel. That's what we talked about last week. You have to put those sliders in the right position, otherwise the sound is not to be heard. So you have to do it in a very balanced way, so that it strengthens each other into some kind of harmony or symphony. That requires that mixing panel and, of course, the test and booster strategies should also be discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u271	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u272	I will continue my speech. I think it is now clear what our proposal is. So I'm gonna skip a little bit. When I suggested this measure of this own risk on Twitter this weekend, it literally broke out. Thousands of insults, threats and intimidations from the anti-vaccination area were immediate consequence. Is this perhaps the reason why the Prime Minister bowed cowardly to the unvaccinated this weekend, avoiding this question and saying: Hugo de Jonge should do that? There is a lot of talk about radicalisation. It is certainly there and to a very serious extent, but do not underestimate the rapidly increasing dissatisfaction with vaccinees; that is also what I say to the VVD Group. These are people who are less active on social media and who are not going to demonstrate, but who are now really fed up with the incoherent cabinet policy. Patience is also running out with the vaccinees. To the extent of disaster, we are also faced with a political party that in a huge way undermines the willingness to be vaccinated with fake news, disinformation and terrible hits. With a true army on twitter rollers, attempts are made to silence and intimidate opponents. Other politicians are also being intimidated. We discussed this with the President last week, as you know. So I will not go back to that now. I can talk about this myself, because I have been intimidated in this way for two and a half years. The group chairmen in the First and Second Chambers of this party may therefore report to the criminal court of Amsterdam for questioning on 16 December. That is the only way to deal with this undermining and intimidation: through criminal law. Mr. Chairman. What do we have to do now? Address the real causes of the problems. Let me sum it up for the Minister. We have come up with a number of points that we think are very important now. First of all, point 1: better people at the helm, people who see and see through problems and who can explain them to the people in a confidence-building way. Decisions in crisis are not improved by longer meetings or by lengthy press conferences. People are needed who can intuitively make the right decisions in a crisis on the basis of this information. Secondly, in line with the United Kingdom, Canada and other countries, appoint a chief medical officer to oversee this as soon as possible and to restore confidence to the public. Thirdly, concentrate the corona care in special corona centers and start quickly. Give medical professionals the room to do this and make money available for this. So leave it to the professionals and do not immediately open a look of consultants, as the government is always inclined to do immediately. Give those professionals some space. They can do this. Fourthly, invest in ic-care capacity. Of course, that should have happened a long time ago, but start today. This will not be allowed to delay. And improve nurse's working conditions. Fifth. Also use the tens of billions of the health insurance companies that have been put up there. As Marcel Levi said this weekend in the NRC: "The health insurance companies haven't taken up their role for fifteen years and now they haven't. They could say there should be more ic-beds. But the Minister of Health has more legal possibilities than he is using now, and that is a political choice. He prefers to answer 40% of Parliament's questions that it is not about it and that the field parties have to solve it." So now the Minister has to get to work, including the health insurance companies. Finally, a few non-binding opinions to the Minister. As Boris Johnson said on Saturday, "We're going to boost the booster campaign." So speed up the boosters; gas on it! One point I would also like to make is that disinformation and intimidation must be tackled vigorously. The anonymity on social media needs to be addressed. This also happened in Australia last week with new proposals to stop people like this from being able to threaten everyone anonymously. It's about what happens on social media platforms, such as Telegram groups, calling for politicians to do the worst things and many more inflammatory shit. Get these things out of the sky. Along with this, the law of defamation and slander must be strengthened, because it is completely obsolete in this age of social media. So tighten up the description of the crime and impose higher sanctions. It is a pity that the Minister of Justice is not here today, because I would have liked to discuss that with him. This also applies to the risk to unvaccinated people if, contrary to what they claim, they end up on the ic. In short, I should like to conclude by reviewing the policy, setting priorities and doing so in an organisational manner that is appropriate to the fight against a crisis, rather than allowing as many different opinions as possible to be addressed in a spaghetti of consultative bodies. New people, who can regain trust and organize things, that works. The polarisation should be removed from the air by providing clarity. Choices have consequences. Don't you want to vaccinate while 85% of the Netherlands did? Fine, but it'll have financial consequences. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that now is the time for unconventional measures to prevent code black. As far as we are concerned, this bill does not contribute enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u273	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr Karakus has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u274	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group is deeply concerned about the significant increase in the number of corona infections and the enormous pressure on care, especially now that the highly contagious omikron variant has been definitively established in our country. For weeks now, the PvdA has been warning about the further overload of the care. Especially with this new variant of the virus it is necessary to increase care capacity. This applies not only to hospitals, but also to nursing homes, for example, where basic care can often no longer be provided. The shortage of staff caused by absenteeism in nursing homes plays a major role in this. Mr Van Rooijen was right to point that out this morning. It is understandable that, because of the increase in infections, more is being asked of people, so that we can slow down the spread of the virus. However, the PvdA Group wonders whether the introduction of new measures is the most effective way of limiting the virus. If new measures are introduced, they should be effective to prevent infections and thereby reduce the pressure on care. The PvdA Group wonders how the addition of new measures will change that, so that the Netherlands finally gets another approach to the virus that is effective and consistent. Mr. Chairman. Adding measures to the law and extending the measures laid down in the law makes sense only if these measures are properly implemented. The measures currently in force are almost impossible to explain and enforce. In order for the measures to be effective, they must be understandable to residents, organisations and entrepreneurs and be sufficiently enforced. In order to explain the extension of the measures, it is important to provide them with a sound justification, which clearly shows why the chosen package of measures will have a significant impact on the levels of contamination. To what extent does the government think that broadening the use of the corona access card will help to limit the spread of the virus? Mr. Chairman. As has been said, it is important for the effectiveness of measures to ensure that the rules are properly enforced. In order for the proposed extension of the use of the corona ticket to be effective, much needs to be asked of local entrepreneurs and enforcers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u275	Mrs Faber has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u276	It's just them who have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u277	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u278	They, in particular, are already struggling to enforce the current rules on the use of tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u279	Mr. Karakus states that there must be more support and that people must also understand the measures. That's where we can find each other. But shouldn't there be more publicity on what the OMT bases the decisions on and gives the opinions? Wouldn't it be desirable for the scientific basis to come out as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u280	Basically, I'd say yes. Only, I don't know what's being discussed within the OMT. I'm sure there's a lot of advice. Eventually, as a director, as a minister, you have to make a choice. So I don't know if it's gonna help to get those opinions out so transparently, with maybe all different opinions. Wouldn't that cause more noise, uncertainty and misunderstanding? I don't know. You asked the Minister that question, so I await his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u281	I think that's a very clear answer from Mr. Karakus. Do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u282	I am not interested in an opinion, but I am really interested in the scientific basis. That's where I'm heading. My question is whether you can agree to reveal it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u283	We are concerned that there is a need to clarify why you are taking action, whether the OMT says so or the Minister. I do expect the Minister to support well why those measures will be effective if you take them. That's our question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u284	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u285	Mr. Chairman. I conclude by saying that they are already struggling to enforce the current rules on the use of tickets. In previous debates we have already indicated Mr Nicolaï has already given an example that one in three QR codes is checked in the catering industry. To date, only 15 charges have been imposed under penalty and seven institutions have been closed. We believe that good enforcement is important not only for compliance with the measures, but also in order to maintain public confidence in the policy. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the PvdA is concerned about the consequences of a lack of enforcement. Lack of enforcement can create a sense of false safety, which may lead to more infections. Have lessons been drawn from the shortcomings in maintaining the existing use of the corona access card? If so, what lessons are these? Can the government also explain the enforcement plan announced by the Minister in the previous debate? Mr. Chairman. The Association of Dutch Municipalities has already indicated that this proposal exceeds the enforcement possibilities of the municipalities. Can the government explain why, despite this signal, it believes that an extension of the use of the corona access card can and will be enforceable and therefore be effective? Has the support of the measures taken into account the overload of the local enforcers? In what way does the government intend to ensure that these measures are optimally effective? For example, does the government intend to allocate extra money for local enforcement capacity? My final question on this point is: has the government considered increasing sanctions or the chance of getting caught in the event of a violation? Mr. Chairman. As I mentioned earlier, my group is very concerned about the new variant of the virus and the subsequent pressure on care. It is therefore important not only to take sufficient measures, but also, above all, to explain the measures taken, to be effective and to be enforceable. Part of this must also be to increase the chances of taking action and possible sanctions, precisely in order to meet the millions of Dutch who do comply with the measures. Along these lines, the PvdA will assess the current measures as well as the measures to be taken, because only with good compliance with existing measures can we together ensure that new measures are not needed. We therefore ask the government to explain clearly whether the bill meets our criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u286	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. There is a question from Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u287	Mr Karakus spoke about the importance of the large group of people who do comply with the rules. I agreed with those words. Mr Karakus places the emphasis very much on compliance. That is, of course, justified in itself, but when it comes to combating pandemics, it is about large numbers. What if, after the introduction of this scheme, 75% of the citizens, of the entrepreneurs, are simply trying to comply with this rule? We know that we will have a number of cases where that does not work, because whether the citizens do not cooperate or the entrepreneurs do not cooperate. If that were the outcome, it would certainly contribute to the further spread of the virus. Would you be prepared to adopt this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u288	We never find it difficult to put in place measures to relieve the burden of care. That's what this is all about today. If you take action, they should only make an effective contribution to that objective. If you take a serious, far-reaching measure as we are now, I think we have discussed it a great deal over the past period, and you are not applying your package of measures, then that is also a wrong signal. Chances are you're gonna miss out on these people. Moreover, there is a good chance that people will not keep to it, even those who are willing to stick to it. So, in fact, it is more of a support for those who like to comply with these measures and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u289	Mr President, very briefly. I understand your explanation, but the question remains: are we willing to do what is possible and what is possible, or do we allow our consideration of the legislative proposal to depend on the situation of what is not possible? In fact, that just doesn't mean doing anything at all. That is the point I should like to make to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u290	My introduction started by saying that we understand that you need to take action. So that's not a discussion for us. But we say: show us why it is effective. You have to show that not only towards us, but also towards the residents, because then you have understanding and support. Our question is: tone to it, indicate it and make it hard for it. That's one. The second is that we all know, Mr Nicolaï, and I have mentioned a few examples of this, which many people do not follow, such as entrepreneurs. I mentioned the example of the corona pass: one in three! How serious do you take that? What example do you give to people who stand in line, who have been vaccinated, who comply with the rules and who are not controlled? What's that signal you're sending? Aren't you gonna call for false security? Those are all questions I'm hearing back from my environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u291	Mrs. De Bruijn, do you have one last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u292	I just have a final comment. Mr Karakus says: one in three. So two out of three do, and that also has effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u293	Thank you. You came to the end of your speech, Mr. Karakus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u294	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-eerstekamer-3.u295	Thank you. Does one of the other Members wish to speak? That is not the case. I propose that the debate be suspended now for lunch and that the sitting resume at 13.30.
