ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35732, Amendment of the Public Health Act in connection with a temporary power to limit outdoor stays in order to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus as much as possible (Temporary law restriction in open air covid-19). I see Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	And I see the chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group would like to make two points of order. The first point of order regarding this bill is that the PVV Group believes that this bill should be declared controversial, as the Cabinet is a missionary. A outgoing cabinet should not come forward with a legislative proposal with such far-reaching measures. The second point is that yesterday in the Lower House the Minister refused to answer questions about the trial, but because of this trial we are all here in this Knight's Room. In addition, the court's ruling as a document is attached to this bill. So it certainly seems to me to be part of this bill, but apparently it is very sensitive. Therefore, if this Chamber refuses to declare the bill controversial, the question is not to deal with this bill as long as it is under court, also because the Minister does not want to answer questions about it. In addition, the PVV Group wishes to request a roll-call vote on both these order proposals, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Faber. You know that I invoked the urgency procedure and that I also convened a meeting of the College of Seniors. There was a large majority in favour of having this debate today. There was no request to declare this bill controversial. No proposal has been made so far and no majority has been obtained for this either. This morning, the committee presented an oral report. The debate is therefore scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. All of that may be true, but we can make a proposal of order at any time and then we can ask to vote directly, with a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Then I'm gonna suspend for a little while, and then we can have a little chat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u6	I note that two procedural proposals have been made. The first order proposal is to declare the bill controversial. The second order proposal is to suspend the debate until the court ruling has been given in the appeal case. Both procedural proposals have been asked for a roll-call vote. We shall therefore proceed to roll-call votes as soon as possible. At the moment there are no 38 members physically in the room. The call is for this to be speeded up as soon as possible, as it is not possible to vote by roll call at the moment. I propose to the Chamber that we continue with the debate and that we vote by roll-call at 11.45 a.m. on both order proposals. If one of the two procedural proposals were to be adopted, the debate would be suspended in accordance with the then adopted order proposal. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Of course, that is a very strange way of doing things, because then both order proposals will be ignored. And that is not the proper way of doing things. This chambre de réflexion, which always beats on the chest because she does it all in order and according to the rules, is now simply throwing certain procedures overboard. I find that very, very, very strange. We have always been in favour of abolishing the First Chamber, but I mean, what are we still doing here if we just apply everything the way we want it to be? I think that's an embarrassment for this chambre de réflexion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u8	Well, Mrs Faber, my proposal is to proceed to a roll-call vote on your order proposals as soon as possible. At least 38 members must be present for this. So I think it would be very reasonable to give the groups the opportunity to have those Members present here. I suggest we take about two hours to do that. Given the average travel time in the Netherlands, I think that is reasonable. That's how we agreed in advance in the Seniors. There was support for that at the time. So I'm just gonna keep the Seniors' appointment. If a roll-call vote is requested, we are going to have it as soon as possible. So until an order proposal has been adopted to suspend the debate, I have no reason to suspend the debate. So it seems reasonable to me to give the groups the opportunity now to ensure that there are enough Members in the House at 11.45 a.m. to vote jointly on both order proposals. If one or both of the order proposals were then adopted, we will, of course, implement it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr President, you can refer back to matters that have been discussed in the Seniors, but the fact remains that you can table an order proposal and then vote on it. It is, of course, a strange course that we are about to start something, while the order proposal is about dealing with the legislative proposal. In fact, that's just putting the horse behind the cart. And procedurally it's not right, it's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u10	Well, as long as the order proposal has not been adopted, the Chamber has not decided to suspend the debate. So I will see if there is any support for my proposal to put Mrs Faber's order proposals to the vote as soon as possible and to take the time to do so until 11.45 p.m. so that Members can be here. Of course, we will also implement an order proposal as soon as it has been adopted. Let me see if I can count on my support for this. Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u11	I would ask you, if this order proposal continues, not to make it two hours, but two and a half hours, given that some of our Members really have to come all the way from the north or the south of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you. Then I suggest, until noon. Then we'll do it 15 minutes later. But I do see your support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u13	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u14	On behalf of the D66 Group, I support this proposal. I would like to say to Mrs Faber what I said to her informally: the exercise of powers, including regulatory powers in this Chamber, must be reasonable. If you know and have established in advance that you are frustrating these debates by means of a procedural appeal, then that is not the reasonable exercise of the regulatory powers and that is not democratic thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr President, I would like to support your proposal, but on behalf of my group I would like to say that we are surprised at this state of affairs with regard to the PVV proposal. In this Chamber we have the good use of announcing just a roll-call vote on time, especially at this time, when we ask everyone to stay home as much as possible in order to reduce the level of contamination. And what do we do? What kind of an example are we setting here? An entirely different one. I have serious objections to that. I support your proposal, but I do support it with protest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD also supports your proposal, and we are also surprised about this, because in the last week's College of Seniors it was clearly decided that we would be discussing this proposal today in a plenary debate. And it is strange that the PVV has apparently changed its mind by now, while the circumstances have not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. Mrs Baay-Timmerman on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also support from 50PLUS for your proposal. And indeed, the College of Seniors would have been the way to announce that a roll-call vote would be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u21	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is a very important debate. It's not exactly falling out of the sky either. The whole of the Netherlands is working on this. We are rather surprised that a number of large groups are very poorly represented at the moment; but well, that is their choice. We are fully present, we can now also vote by roll-call, but we can also accept the proposal that these larger groups, which seem to be unable to get their people here in time for this important debate, should be granted a grace period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Then I look at Mrs De Boer, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our group also supports the proposal. And I would like to join you in saying that I think Mrs Bikker put it most beautifully...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u24	Take a break in the room, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u25	Yes. I think Mrs Bikker put it very nicely: that it is also part of our task as the First Chamber to exercise the procedural rules in a reasonable manner. In my profession, we speak differently of misuse of procedural law. And I think that we should now deal with this bill, as has been agreed. We can therefore agree to a roll-call vote when everyone can be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Then Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. Although the SGP always appreciates some resurrection, we support the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then Mrs Pouw on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u29	Yes, my group also supports the President's proposal, although I would like to say for the record that I agree with the position of the PVV. And I would like to endorse Mrs Prins' point, because we too have people who are at a somewhat longer distance than two hours, so two and a half hours seems more reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs Pouw. Mrs. De Bruijn, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr President, thank you for giving me a second chance. For I am touched by the words of Mr Otten. Our group and we are, fortunately, a large group; that is what the electorate has decided to do, and this means that we will work as much as possible from home and come to this House with as few people as possible. And I really think it is a sacrifice of the way in which we are all trying to respect the corona measures, that this is the way in which some of our members are reacting to the fact that some of us are just following this meeting at home, at a distance...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u32	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u33	... and is very involved in it. I want to have said that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u35	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Support for the proposal. I would like to point out that if anyone fails to comply with the rules, it is the PVV Group. We've had a meeting with the College of Seniors in recent weeks. Three times there has been a request that, if a vote is needed later, that vote would then be notified. That's a nice question, too. At that time, the PVV Group has not indicated that this should be necessary. And now they're taking advantage of the procedure, trying to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u37	...to prevent a meeting from taking place now. And, Mr President, that is to abuse the powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Then I'll look at Mrs Faber. Not everyone's been there, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u39	Yes, thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor again, but I do have to respond to some of the allegations that have been made here. Firstly, we would not be democratic. Well, we always follow democratic rules. Then there are procedures here that we've agreed to. We are sticking to that, but the political elite are not always happy with these rules. And that's what we see now: now the rules are just made very liquid, and they're just thrown overboard, if that's how it suits them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u40	I suggest that we limit it now to expressing support or not for the proposal. We're going to vote on this order proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u41	But then there's one more thing, Mr. President... I'm sorry. I can't interrupt you. That happened in the fire of the debate. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u42	Go ahead, Mrs Faber. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u43	I'd still like to go into Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u44	No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u45	Yes, I do. 'Cause he says things about the PVV that really can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u46	Yeah, but I'm gonna cut you off right now. First of all, we are going to continue to see if there is any support for my proposal. After that, I'm sure you'll have the floor again. Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. Forum for Democracy already thinks it knows how the vote on this whole debate... Am I on the microphone? Yes. The Democracy Forum already thinks it knows how the vote on this debate will turn out. We hope to keep the debate as short as possible. We actually thought it should take place after the court's ruling, but let's do it as soon as possible while we're here. That is why I support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. Each member of each political group is entitled to make procedural proposals here. We're gonna have to take care of it in a clean way. I think your proposal is quite correct. For the record, this is a parliament. A circus is fun, too, but we shouldn't make it fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I shall look at Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u51	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I note that there is a large majority in favour of my proposal to put order proposals to the vote as soon as possible in accordance with the regulations. I propose that this be done at 12.15 p.m., also in view of Mrs Prins' request. The request is therefore to have sufficient members of your political groups in the house. If it didn't work out, we'll keep looking. If one of the two procedural proposals is adopted, the debate will of course be suspended immediately. Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr President, I would simply like to make a third point of order, namely that there will be no debate until the first two procedural proposals have been voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u54	That is the same as your earlier proposals for order. We can put that order proposal to the vote later. At that time, we can take stock of how many order proposals there are. An order proposal should be put to the vote as soon as possible. That should also be reasonably possible. So that's what we're gonna do, in accordance with the regulations. Members are now trying to bring a quorum into the house if it is right. We're going to vote at 12:15. Then we can also vote on your third proposal. But until such an order proposal has been adopted, I will not implement it either. There is a large majority for that. So we are going to start the debate now. Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u55	But now you're just putting aside my third order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u56	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u57	Yes! No one has responded to it here. So you just assume that they're all in agreement. You may be the President, but I still come up with a third order proposal, namely that there will be no deliberations until the first two order proposals have been voted by roll call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u58	And your third order proposal will also be put to the vote as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u59	No, ho-ho. You may, with all due respect to you, be the President, but it is the Chamber that decides and not the President. I have not heard any of the Members here about this third order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u61	I note that Mrs Faber did not request a roll-call vote on this third proposal, so we could vote immediately as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u62	If Mrs Faber agrees. It's her order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u63	Well, we're going for a roll-call vote, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u64	Then we shall proceed to that roll-call vote as soon as possible, at 12.15 p.m. Until then, we're going to have the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u65	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u66	Do I have a sound? Yes. There we are again, on a Friday in the recess. It seems to be becoming a habit with this minister. I'll hold Friday, May 1st in my schedule. As far as our group is concerned, the fact that we are dealing with an emergency law for the second time on a non-meeting day in a recess is symptomatic of this cabinet's approach to the corona crisis: messy and legally fragile. Does the government realise that this undermines the support for the corona policy and the confidence of many citizens? The fact that another legal basis is now being chosen following a judge's ruling is legally an improvement, but will be seen by many as another cabinet trick to get out of the judge's ruling. This betrayal of trust is entirely due to the government itself. How is the government going to restore this trust? Even after the debate in the Lower House, it has not become clear why the cabinet has not chosen from the beginning the basis that is now being chosen, a basis in the Temporary Law measures covid-19, part of the Public Health Act. The emergency law now before us also had another legal basis. It was only after the Council of State's umpteenth opinion that the Temporary Law measures were really the right route that the cabinet went about. What's with the resistance? In the technical briefing yesterday in the Lower House, Professor Voermans said that the only possible reason for this is to be able to introduce the measure outside the parliament. My group hopes there was a better reason, but I haven't heard it yet. I'm having a bit of a bit of a chat right next to the chair. Thank you. Then I come to that legal basis. My group believes that the legislation that has now been chosen is better than the route chosen previously. In yesterday's debate in the House of Representatives, the government kept clinging to two thoughts or, better yet, betting on two horses. The Minister would not say that this basis is better. Why not? However, the motion in which the House of Representatives ruled that the elaboration of the legal basis in the Wbbbg should be terminated after the entry into force of this law, gave its opinion to the Chamber. I assume this means that the government is going to carry out this motion. I'd like a commitment. I would also like a commitment for something that follows on from that. My group assumes that the government will allow the law that we are voting on today to enter into force on adoption, independently of the outcome of today's appeal. My group has no objection to the instrument of curfew being placed in the toolbox of the covid approach. We can in principle support the creation of the legal basis for this in the Twm. I will come to the measure itself; first of all, a comment on the involvement of Parliament. My group considers it very important that Parliament is and is involved in the establishment and enforcement of the restriction of fundamental rights. It is therefore a good thing that an amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives that the measure to establish a curfew should last up to three weeks and that the extension should therefore be submitted to the House of Representatives, which can then block it. The Lower House did not regulate the further involvement of the Upper Chamber. At least this is what we are going to do next Tuesday. I now come to the curfew itself, because today we are talking not only about the legal basis, but also about the measure itself. The present legislative proposal also contains the transitional provision that the measure currently in force will continue to apply on the basis of the new legal basis. I would like to point out that this week, in The Hague, the Court of Appeal ruled not only that the legal basis was inadmissible, but also that there were serious doubts about the factual justification by the State of the need for curfew. Before a far-reaching limitation is introduced as a curfew, it must be clear that no other less far-reaching measures are available and that the introduction will actually have a substantial effect, according to the court. In addition, the court questioned why an urgent but voluntary curfew advice was not chosen. The court also found that the OMT, in its own words, has no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution to reducing the virus. This makes the state's argument that a curfew is inevitable, at least disputable and not very convincingly motivated, according to the court. My group also questions the proportionality of curfew. It is a serious restriction on the freedom of movement of all citizens. Even though the practical significance for many people is small, we couldn't go anywhere anyway.The curfew is experienced by many people as very profound. The government's locking us in our own house. We also think that the justification for the need for the measure is weak. First of all, the curfew was introduced on the basis of an alarming OMT opinion of 6 January, an opinion that turned out to be wrong. After that, the foundation remained lean. The government cannot indicate the impact of the specific measure on the contagion rates and seems to continue to rely on the precautionary principle. As long as the figures do not fall, we will maintain all measures, whether they work or not. That's not how a proportionality test is supposed to work. A proportionality test is also more than a necessity and an effectiveness test. A measure can be effective, but still disproportionate. For a proportionality test, all the effects of a measure must be weighed, including the negative effects of the measure itself. And that is not reflected in the government's support. What are the effects of this measure on, for example, the loneliness and psychic well-being of young people and of singles, on home safety? I am thinking of child abuse and domestic violence on the lack of movement and the possibly related overweight? How do we weigh these effects against the possible contribution to the reduction of contamination? What is needed for this is for the cabinet not only to be advised by the OMT, but also to have targeted research conducted into these other effects and to be advised on them. And then it's more than letting Kim Putters of the SCP catch up. In the House of Representatives yesterday, the Prime Minister made a commitment to pay explicit attention to the negative effects of the measures themselves in future. Today we would like to hear how the government is going to do that. In order to consider it in a few weeks' time, you must now organize how you get that necessary information. You need to deactivate investigations, you need to contact experts who can advise you on this. I'd like a plan for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mrs De Boer gives a nice analysis of the proportionality test and the considerations that need to be made. You reflect this very much on curfew, but how do you see it in relation to all the other measures we have already taken? The curfew is now in the spotlight, of which we constantly weigh proportionality. That is right, because this restriction of freedom means quite a lot. But that also applies to other measures. Apparently, we've been much less focused on that in the past year. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u68	I think that is a discussion that we are going to have next Tuesday. The curfew and the measure are now before us. We have to judge the proportionality of this today. The First Chamber is in fact out of play at the moment in assessing the proportionality of other measures. That's what we're gonna talk about Tuesday. This is, of course, true of all measures. Yes, we have great difficulty in underpinning the proportionality of many measures. I'll say something about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u69	I listened with interest to Mrs De Boer's analysis. She says there are all kinds of questions that have not been answered. They were all put in the Lower House yesterday and remained unanswered. Parties that have asked such critical questions will eventually vote in favour of Article 2 of this law. They'll agree to that curfew. From Mrs De Boer I would like to know whether she thinks that this Chamber should be judged more heavily from the point of view of its task than the House of Representatives. What does that mean for your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u70	I believe that both chambers should review and apply the same review framework. So I have no judgment as to whether this Chamber should do so more heavily than the others. How my group is going to weigh it in the end, I will indicate it in the second term after the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u71	Both Chambers have to test, but Mrs De Boer agrees with me that we need to assess the state of law and legality in particular and get much less involved in the political murmur than the House of Representatives. That is what my question is aimed at, because I do not think it is good for parliamentary functioning and for how we stand that all kinds of parties do raise all kinds of questions, are very critical, then shrugging their shoulders because there is no answer, and ultimately vote for the law. Does Mrs. De Boer agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u72	I agree with you that we must test the state of law. I'm not going to compare that to the House of Representatives. Should we do this differently or more than the House of Representatives? That weighs heavily on us, but we are going to think about how heavy that weighs. Then you will find out what our conclusion is. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u74	My group also lacks a long-term plan. It will be a long time before everyone is vaccinated. The virus is mutating and there may be new viruses. We're not done with this for a while. We need to have a plan on how society can function while there is more or less a contagious virus around, without having to lock down entire sectors. We do not see the government making these plans and we miss them. We expect this government to come up with a short-term plan on how various necessary sectors can function with corona. Not or, but how! Fieldlabs may be able to help, but without an underlying plan there seems to be a high degree of trial and error. Can the government indicate whether, for sectors such as education, culture, catering, retailing, sport, personal services, such future plans are being worked on, say, in the coming month, in the next quarter, in the coming year? And can we and society also be informed about these plans? That's the perspective we need. How are we gonna organize that? I would like to make one specific point: how is the government going to ensure that secondary schools and higher education can be reopened as soon as possible? So not if they can open, but how they can open! I'm rounding up. With the legal basis in this bill, we have no difficulty, but the continuation of curfew is hard on all the members of our group. We will have to apply our own proportionality test on the basis of inadequate information and with a limited perspective, because the government has provided this information and that perspective only to a very limited extent. I hope that the government's answers will provide a better basis for a deliberate final weighing up of my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I have also taken note of the start of this sitting, but I have completed my own explanation for the curfew, in case I can only return home after nine tonight. In question two, the reason, I ticked the box: someone else urgently needs my help. And as an explanation, I put it: the Minister of Justice and Security has asked for urgent consultations on curfew. I assume that's enough land. Mr. Chairman. It is not my custom to be present at meetings where the subject to be discussed is already classified in advance as 'in abundance', which is the qualification of the Minister of Security and Justice and of the Prime Minister. Perhaps at the beginning of his reply, the Minister would like to comment on whether the Minister and the Prime Minister are still of the opinion that the Second and First Chamber are in the process of examining this week a bill that is abundant. The reason why we are again in this Chamber today on a Friday and again in a recess is again a statement by the welfare judge, which once again surprises the cabinet. The same scenario as in the mandatory PCR tests, and again the basis for the judge's judgement was in the non-use of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 to take a temporary measure to combat COOVID-19. The name of the law says it anyway, you'd say. Where the Minister of Security and Justice previously used a general article of the Public Health Act for the introduction of the mandatory PCR test for incoming travellers, the Law on extraordinary powers of civil authority was now used as a legal basis for curfew. At the curfew, the Council of State also wondered what had prompted the Minister to choose this basis. The Council of State rightly pointed to the speed with which the States General had introduced legislation to regulate the PCR test legally. Again, we are back here in the First Chamber to discuss a bill within four days to give the curfew a legal basis that can also pass the test of the judge and of our democracy. The Council of State referred, as mentioned above, to this in its opinion on the ongoing bill of curfew based on the Wbbbg. Let me just say, then, as I feel, "extremely disturbed and annoyed, the attitude and tone of the Minister, who has to say the following in reply to the Council of State, quote: "Applications of urgent legislation because of the haste with which they have to be completed, are not the best guarantees for an informed outcome of the proceedings'. So not only are we here today discussing a bill which, in the eyes of the Minister for Security and Justice and in the eyes of the Prime Minister, is 'abounding'. According to the Minister, it also does not lead to a well-considered outcome. Does the Minister really think that it is the choice of this Chamber to return here from recess every time this Minister is rightly dismissed by a court of law in order to avoid the inevitable legal disaster? Mr. Chairman. On this point, modesty and less convinced of the Minister's own identity would be a good thing. This brings me in line with the question put by the Council of State as to why the basis of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 was not immediately chosen, the route on which there is no legal discussion. The cabinet did not properly estimate the previous questions and recommendations of the Council of State. The Council of State is not Snackbar Kneuterdijk, where you want to pull something out of the wall and throw away what you don't like. Selective handling of heavy-duty opinions from the Council of State undermines the confidence in our democratic protection of fundamental rights, and that is a matter for the Cabinet. This also applies to the deliberate non-involvement of the First Chamber in restricting fundamental rights. How many times have we told the government that this pandemic will benefit from predictability, including legal predictability? Temporary measures to combat COVID-19 are based on the Temporary Law measures covid-19. If there are unforeseen circumstances that have not yet been incorporated into the law or that have not been politically feasible, then, as we do today, after the PCR test for the second time. Citizens understand that, companies understand that, the Council of State understands that, and that also amenities judges understand that. By deviating from cobbled legal paths, you take the risk of getting stuck in the mud sand, and so happened the second time. That is legal pride and that is a pattern in this way. I therefore wonder whether there is sufficient counterpower in the Ministry and in the Cabinet. The repeated perseverance of the minister in his own right, considered from a distance, is all the characteristics of what in psychology is called a confirmation bias: merely seeking and accepting arguments that confirm one's own right. Has no one really pointed out to the Minister the risks of choosing the Wbbbg, I ask the Minister? And why does the Minister choose in advance to distance the States General by means of state emergency law? Mr. Chairman. If this law is passed today in this Chamber, there is no longer any reason to allow the State Emergency Law, whereby the Cabinet can take decisions outside the States General to be in force any longer. Does the Minister share this explanation? Following this, can the Minister undertake that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 will in future as a rule form the basis for any new temporary measures to combat COOVID-19 which restrict fundamental rights? In this way, we can guarantee the control function of the States-General. Mr. Chairman. This is a second pattern, which is gradually becoming apparent: placing the States-General at a distance. Once is remarkable, twice is questionable, on the third time it is suspected. Already in the first consultation version of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 it became clear that the way in which the cabinet operates increasingly leads to less and not more involvement of the States General. Less democracy rather than more democracy in times of crisis. That was also the reason why the House of Representatives amended the right of veto of individual measures for itself in the examination of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Moreover, this was a debate in which the cards had already been shaken politically in advance. "An improvement of the bill" the Minister of VWS called this in the Lower House and also here. How else does the cabinet deal with the First Chamber? When the First Chamber ruled by a majority vote that the extension of the Temporary Law provided for measures covid-19, a law which is the basis for the far-reaching restriction of fundamental rights, gave decisive control to the States General, and for more than three months the cabinet has not been home. We will discuss this next week, but it is indicative of the pattern of the cabinet's action towards the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In fact, basing the curfew on the Wbbbg led the States General to be put at a distance. That is bad because, as has been said, you need more and no less democracy in times of crisis. The debate with the House of Representatives prior to the activation of the curfew was to collect due and political support, but only from the part of the States-General with which the cabinet wishes to do business. What this reveals is a worrying blind spot for the position of the First Chamber as co-ruler of fundamental rights in our rule of law. That was also demonstrated by yesterday's debate in that Chamber on this law. The Prime Minister clearly demonstrated this by saying that we, all of us, 150 MPs and 23 cabinet members, are fighting a crisis. And: I think I'm gonna have to go somewhere tomorrow, too. Then the Minister for Justice and Security, who says of himself: as a child, I fell a cauldron of law. I can only conclude that after he fell into that boiler, he must have been rinsed off very well when I look at the ease with which he advised yesterday in the Lower House a motion by Mr Van Otterloo of 50PLUS. On that motion, to also give the First Chamber control in important matters such as this law on a curfew, the Minister did not even go into substance. He didn't even think about it in terms of content. He said: we have already talked about this in the Temporary Law measures covid-19, so we are not going to do that again; I therefore advise against that motion. But we did not mention in the Temporary Law measures covid-19 that there would be a curfew that limited 17 million people in their fundamental rights. It didn't say that when we dealt with that law last year. That's what came in later. It didn't say that there would be a mandatory PCR test for travelers. None of that's in there. The failure to go into the substance of such a motion thus shows a blind spot on the position of the First Chamber in restricting fundamental rights. Mr President, then there is a very different point. Why was the Continuation Act not sent to the Council of State for advice until 26 January? That is four days after the decision of the cabinet on 22 January to immediately activate the curfew on the basis of the Wbbbg. How can it be four days before that law goes to the Council of State for advice, other than the one we are discussing today: Tuesday decided, at night a signature and go straight to the Council of State? Why didn't that happen with the Continuation Act of the Wbbg? And how can it be that yesterday the Minister said in the Lower House, when it was asked why it lasted one and a half weeks, that he would have preferred that the law had already been in the Chamber after four days? No, it was in the JenV Department for four days and not in the Chamber. That was the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u77	I am very much in favour of Mr Janssen's speech, but I have a question for him. As you know, the appeal is now also before the court in The Hague on behalf of the State about the curfew. I just heard the lawyer just said: it's a dike break, it's flooding the country, we need to act quickly on the basis of this law. How does Mr Janssen see that? Because in his first judgment, the judge said that there was no breach of dike, right? Now, apparently, an emergency of this kind is being raised from the State. How does Mr Janssen see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u78	The State's contribution to that appeal has not been submitted to me in advance, but each chooses his own words. I don't agree with it either. I refer to the answers given by the Minister on 9 December to questions from colleagues of GroenLinks in the Lower House of 6 November. There was a question asked: what will you do if there is a curfew? Then the Minister said in answer to question 1: there is no curfew at this time, but when it comes, it will be based on the Wbbbg. We speak December 9th. If you can prepare for this long time and you already know you're choosing the Wbbbg I'll get back to you in a moment. You shouldn't take an OMT advice after that and say: we couldn't have known that sooner, so now we have to do something. You could have been prepared, it could have all been ready and it could have been done neatly through the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u79	You'll get back to me. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you for that answer. I agree with this. I do not understand at all why the State is bringing this up again, because it is not at issue. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u81	I'm gonna keep on stalling at the Continuation Act with sending it to the Council of State. The Minister himself has caused it to last more than a week and a half. It also took the Council of State a few days. He forgot to mention that it took the Ministry four days before it even went to the Council of State. As a result, treatment was no longer possible in the week immediately following its entry into force, because of course it did not go to the State Council until Tuesday. At the end of the week, when the Chamber was assembled, it returned. Hence it all came on February 2nd instead of a week earlier. Then the Chamber could have talked about it in the same week, on Thursday, and we could have talked about it the next Tuesday. My question is therefore how this could have happened. During the time when the Minister caused delays in forwarding, we could also have established a law on covid-19 on the basis of the Temporary Law. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on that point. All this has led us to debate today a curfew on the basis of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, albeit the Minister still tried to do something else by this law. The Council of State said don't do that, just do it on the basis of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. What the hell is that? Why does the Minister keep doing this? The Temporary Law measures covid-19 is the law that provides the basis for restricting fundamental rights, because that is still what it is about: undermining and restricting fundamental rights. Measures are gradually appearing to be taking place throughout the mass, and the cabinet has come to believe that fundamental rights are being restricted and the States-General is being placed at a distance. The image that then emerges to me about the government's actions is that it is mainly about managing. And that's good for implementation tasks in a crisis, but you don't manage fundamental rights and the democratic control of the States General. You cherish it, you guard it, and you defend it. The fact that we are speaking in this Chamber today about curfew is not a choice of the cabinet, but a result of the ruling of the court of convenience, and that is something that the cabinet is to blame for. The cabinet has overlooked or at least misjudged the risk that the basis of the Wbbg is carrying. I therefore find it completely irresponsible to deal with this law of this minister, in view of the social unrest that has been caused. That is separate from the judgment in appeal. The evil has already been done. (NL) Mr President, all in all. The minister liked to use statements by Johan Cruijff in the PCR debate as well, but the minister did not show himself to be a legal Johan Cruijff during the debate on curfew. With me it brought out a very different picture, a picture of Louis van Gaal. "Am I the one who's so smart, or are you that stupid?" I don't think it's either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. For the Acts: if I have heard correctly, you have addressed some of your questions to the Minister of VenJ and part to the Minister of JenV. Before the Minister feels called not to answer those questions, it is good to correct that in the Acts, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u83	Yes, and otherwise on behalf of his predecessor of VenJ!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fraction of the PvdA does not feel taken seriously when it comes to the introduction of curfew: not taken seriously in the process, not taken seriously on the content. Today we are talking here in the First Chamber under steam and boiling water for the first time about a profound restriction of freedom for all Dutch people. A restriction of freedom that we do not know to what extent it works, but one that has already been introduced. That's gonna cause a lot of discomfort. Should we vote in favour, because it might help just enough? Or should we vote against because it is precisely our job to test for proportionality and effectiveness? Mr. Chairman. Careful legal anchoring, good justification of proportionality and subsidiarity, sound democratic control: it is not a lawyering to the lawyering. They are necessary ingredients for worn, lubricated and quality regulation. So they are not annoying obstacles to the effectiveness of covid policy, but they help them. My group is concerned that in the past year the government has not always taken intrinsic and persuasive constitutional principles as the basis for its action. My group had difficulty dealing with the emergency legislation today. We are thus under suspicion that the First Chamber also attaches more importance to speed than to care. The importance of a 10% difference in the level of contamination by the government means that we are here today, and not just on Tuesday, as was already planned. Regardless of the outcome of the court of appeal, my group considers it wise to legally secure the curfew through the law Temporary measures covid-19. This does more justice to the long duration of the measure and makes it possible to use it if necessary. I would ask the Minister to explain again with the other parties why, despite being repeatedly pointed out by the Council of State, there was opposition from the government to opt for this legal basis at an earlier time than the day before. The law brings curfew and any other measures that restrict outdoor stays, into the toolbox. No more than that, and so far our agreement. However, with the surroundings the ministerial decision that is now under the Wbbbg is also and directly under the basis of the Twm and with the entry into force of the law, the curfew on this basis also has immediate effect. In my group's view, that is where the problem lies: the ministerial decision is not well founded. Is curfew as it is now in force in line with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity? My group wants the answer to this question today to be as satisfactory as possible, knowing that hard figures cannot be given. But it's very thin now. Of course, proportionality and subsidiarity were debated yesterday in the House of Representatives. My group therefore calls on the Minister to explain again today why an urgent opinion was not first chosen, for example. What alternatives have been investigated? The government has immediately opted for a ban on changing behaviour, and has directly put in place repressive policies, but has there been any consideration as to whether positive incentives could achieve a similar result? Has there been research on shifting behavior during curfew, in the sense that people, for example, start exercising earlier or visit earlier? Why can the curfew in its expected effectiveness not be separated from the one-person visit advice? An observation this morning: there were just traffic jams again. Sewage measurements indicate quite decisively that work is a major spreader of the virus. Are there no measures that encourage work at home further than they are now? A far-reaching measure requires as solid a basis as possible, and it is still thin, despite all the uncertainties and limitations that the government has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u86	I hear a whole list of questions that Mr Recourt raises, all of which are entirely justified. They're all about whether or not other things can happen. But the first question remains, of course, whether the Court of Justice of the European Communities asked that question. There is also a sound basis for the curfew. Article 58b was added to the House of Representatives by amendment. That proposal also includes the signature of your group. It states that the measure may only be granted if it is established that it is necessary in view of the seriousness of the threat to public health. When we talked about the law, we already had a discussion about the concept of "needed." The Court of Justice says that it must be established that the introduction of curfew will actually have a substantial effect. That is the explanation of the term "needed." Does Mr Recourt agree with our group that, if you look at it as a lawyer, that is the question before you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u87	That is indeed at the heart of the discussion we are having within the group. The problem we have as a group with the current legislative proposal is not about technical underhanging, because I think that is actually less relevant. We are much more concerned with proportionality and subsidiarity, with the necessity of this measure. What does the measure do in practice? I think the measure does something, but is it enough to take this far-reaching measure? That's the struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u88	Do I understand Mr Recourt's answer in such a way that he says: if there is actually no evidence at all that there is any substantial effect, then a serious legal question will emerge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u89	With the remark that proof is, of course, extremely difficult to deliver. You can't say: the curfew does so much more. But I agree with Mr Nicolaï that this is precisely at the heart of the problem before us today: is it enough to maintain? By the way, I think it is slightly different when it comes to imports. There you can say a little faster: it is not sufficiently substantiated, we do not do it. But today we're actually talking about maintaining. The curfew is already in place, I'll get to that. If you say that we are not going to do it, then I think there is also a relevance to the other measures that have been introduced. Do you actually have to stop the curfew, which does do something, or do you have to see if we're going to light up at other points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u90	You continue your argument, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. Both in the Wbbbg and in the proposed Temporary Law limitation in the open air covid-19, the Minister is required to stop exercising the powers when the exercise is no longer necessary to combat the epidemic. Setting the curfew is a major restriction on the freedoms of people. We've said that a lot. Therefore, in spite of the complexity of the subject, you would expect the government to have a clear balancing framework for determining whether or not the measure is necessary. On the basis of what criteria does the government assess whether the measure taken is still proportionate? What can Parliament control and appeal to the government? And how does the Minister intend to report on the expectation that this specific measure will continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u92	I would like to touch on all what Mr Recourt has to say about effectiveness and proportionality, also in connection with the exchange of views he had with Mr Nicolaï. You are quite right to ask about effectiveness and proportionality. You have asked a lot of questions about this, but you know in advance that it also sounded between your sentences that you are not going to get any answers. Because the Cabinet cannot make it clear to the Senate how effective and proportionate it is, because the figures, the dates we have around curfew are polluted and mixed with the figures of the visitor scheme and other measures. So what kind of answer do you expect? The Cabinet cannot include the Senate in that proven proportionality. What conclusion do you draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u93	My group would draw that conclusion after this debate. I have already asked the President for a suspension during the debate. We also had an additional group meeting last night, in which we put this question precisely through the line I started with, but we do not yet have an answer to that. You're saying if you're gonna do something, uh, that's pretty plausible, uh, do you have to take the risk of not letting that few percent go on? Or do we choose the legally pure way, so you might call it in line with Mr Nicolaï.................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is exactly the dilemma, and we have not yet made a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u94	I understand the greater consideration that is being placed here, but I predict that there will be no new figures; those dates are not yet available. But I await your group's consideration with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u95	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u96	It is precisely because of the rapidly changing situation, the changing figures and the uncertainty about existing changes and the demand for regular evaluation that it is important, as far as possible, to determine in advance what the broad balancing framework is. I would add that this must then be considered in relation to the scale-down or elimination of other measures. In particular, the further opening up of education has a high priority for my group in this case. This therefore requires a well-founded prioritisation. But what's the other way around? If the situation deteriorates, will the curfew be extended or will the primary schools close again? In any case, the Roadmap does not give this clarity yet. Mr. Chairman. The judge's criticism was also that a curfew had been discussed for months and that it was no longer possible to speak of an emergency situation when the situation was such that it had to be introduced in the eyes of the government. My question now is: if the situation gets worse, do we need measures that can already be foreseen and that need to be prepared legally or otherwise? How is the legal anticipation of future scenarios designed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u97	I hear Mr Recourt making a very interesting comment about the broad consideration: not only looking at curfew but also, for example, what it means in relation to the opening up of schools. You have just said that the Roadmap does not provide an insight into this, but at the moment the curfew is in fact the first measure to be scaled down. If that curfew has such an effect that we can at least open up the schools, secondary education, could you possibly consider including it in a broader framework of consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u98	I would very much like to have that debate, first of all, of course, in the House of Representatives, but these seem to me to be significant in relation to each other. I also understand that opening up primary schools took place approximately simultaneously with the introduction of curfew. I imagine that was related to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u99	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u100	Tuesday, this house speaks for the first time about the curfew on the basis of the Wbbbg. In my group's view, it is undesirable to lay down two legal bases. The need of the emergency law, of the Wbbbg, has come to an end with the new basis. The House of Representatives has also adopted a motion to this effect. In what way will the Minister carry out this motion? What my group will also be discussing on Tuesday is the way in which the First Chamber is involved in far-reaching measures on the basis of the Janssen motion. At least what this law shows today is that the change of the Twm is possible in the very short term. Finally, a question on the Van Dam/Groothuizen amendment to item No. 9. I read that amendment in such a way that a three-week horizon has been included, but this does not apply to the current ministerial arrangement. In practice, therefore, the amendment only has effect in the event of a possible second restraining order based on a new ministerial regime. Is the government prepared to do so on the basis of a new ministerial arrangement if the curfew is extended by 2 March, so that the horizon clause becomes a reality and the amendment does not remain a dead letter? Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister will take us seriously today and convince us of the need to vote for the law. Perhaps even more importantly, I hope that the Minister can convince us today that the government has firmly anchored constitutional principles in all its actions. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u101	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Then I give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by asking why during a pandemic, which requires all kinds of radical measures to be dealt with as urgently as possible, the First Chamber should be excluded as much as possible, such as the introduction of curfew. The well-known answer will be that there is a need for the government to act decisively and to be able to respond quickly to new situations. A procedure in which the First Chamber should be heard would delay. But the members of this Chamber have already proved that they acted on this in the shortest possible time when the government or a minister asked for an urgent debate. Mr De Boer and colleague Janssen also mentioned this. This also applies today. The day after the adoption by the House of Representatives of this bill with a strange name, temporary law limitation, we, the First Chamber, are ready to assess the nevertheless fairly complex legal consequences arising from the judgment in summary judgment of 16 February. In addition, this new repair law must be assessed on its own legal merits. Isn't the supposedly delaying effect of the First Chamber a bummer? Doesn't it have anything to do with not having a coalition majority in this Chamber, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. During yesterday's expert meeting in the Lower House, Professor Voermans said: this now outgoing government is a hard learner. In December 2020 it was already examined whether the basis for setting the curfew could be based on Article 8 of the Extraordinary Powers Civil Authority Act, the Wbbbg. This would have the advantage that this instrument could be applied without interference from the Second and First Chambers. That shows, as Voermans continued, little respect for Parliament. My group from the Minister would like to hear the reasons for choosing the route of the Wbbbg, while this was contrary to the advice of the Council of State, which wanted to accommodate the establishment of a curfew in the Temporary Measures Act, so that under Article 58c control could in any case still be exercised from the Second Chamber. To a question from my group chairman, Mr Van Rooijen, who replaced me during the urgent debate on the PCR test on 8 January last, to the Minister of JenV on the possible introduction of the night-time limitation, as was the case in Belgium, the Minister replied as follows. I quote from the Acts. "First of all, regarding the closing of Antwerp: that curfew, because that was it. It could be. I am not against that at all, although it has sometimes been suggested by a journalist (...). That was in July, August. (...) Anyway, that was then. After that, some time after they lifted that, things went up really, really high. Apparently, for whatever reason, that was not a lasting success." Can the Minister tell 50PLUS whether he is also using the term 'ditching' with regard to curfew in the Netherlands? In other words, has the Netherlands been shut down? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? I would also like to hear a further explanation of his statement 'that was apparently, for whatever reason, not a lasting success'. How can this be reconciled with the now "an abundance" of the Prime Minister's words in all hastily rigged bill which has only one purpose, namely to maintain the curfew coûte que coûte until 3 March? At the beginning of January it is stated that the success of curfew is doubtful. Now, a month and a half later, on 18 February, we are still awaiting a ruling from the court, in which it will or will not confirm the judgment of the court of appeal. My group is therefore keen to hear what this change is based on in the Minister's view. Mr. Chairman. The word 'property' has already been mentioned here many times. Setting the curfew has a special and profound character. Privacy and freedom of movement are at stake, even though the latter is not included in our Constitution, but based on Article 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Fourth Protocol to the ECHR. If such an instrument is removed from the toolbox, it must be absolutely necessary and have proven its usefulness and all other options must be exhausted. My group still has doubts as to whether all these conditions have been met. On the one hand, this is due to the statements made by the Minister himself, who rightly pointed to the fact that the number of infections in Belgium did not significantly decrease after the introduction of the curfew in October 2020. On the other hand, Mr Van Dissel states that its effects are not measurable, especially now that the setting of curfew has been accompanied by the regulation of up to one visitor per day. At the same time, this distinction cannot be attributed to the simultaneous introduction of measures already in place. That a broad form of policy freedom is granted to the government when acting in special situations as is known in this pandemic. That is also the case of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. But it is important that the government motivates why a particular measure is inevitable. A measure taken on the basis of an estimate of a further spread of the British variant of the virus remains debatable. Then one could still use the theorem "before it doesn't, then it doesn't harm," but then you will also be on slippery ice. After all, the side effects of compulsory indoor stay after 9 p.m. do have an impact on all age groups, but certainly on young people. They experience this limitation much more intensely, and some already have psychological complaints. These negative effects have not been taken into account. Mr. Chairman. This bill has been put under steam and boiling water within a few days and taken into consideration by both Chambers within 48 hours. Dealing with legislation in this way is far from careful. It therefore reduces the need for support in society. Most citizens already find the current situation incomprehensible. When this bill is adopted, there is still the possibility that the court may destroy the judgment of the amenities court. So we have two different laws on curfew, and which prevails? If this bill is not entered in the Official Journal, so that its entry into force will expire, I ask the Minister. My group feels it is undesirable for a outgoing cabinet to be able to make a choice between two laws without Parliament having any influence over such a choice. This situation may have a precedent effect, in the sense of: if it doesn't work out one way, we just do it through another; so we keep several balls in the air. This does not benefit the legislative process. Finally, Mr President, we are pleased that Mr Van Otterloo's motion has been adopted, so that both the Second and the First Chamber have been given the right of assent in the event of far-reaching measures. But we have serious doubts about the Minister's rejection of the 50PLUS amendment. I'd like an explanation on which this detachment is based. We await the answers to our questions and those of the other Members with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u103	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Again for the Acts: I heard you about "the Wbbg." It's even worse than you thought: it's the Wbbbg, the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u104	I understand, Mr President, an adjustment in the Acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u105	Then I give the floor to Mr Frentrop, who will speak on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a society, people's fundamental rights must sometimes be violated. I repeat, sometimes. And I add: only in extreme necessity, and only if there is no other way. Lawyers call that proportionality and subsidiarity. A curfew infringes Articles 2 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 10 of the Constitution of the Netherlands. Last Tuesday, the judge ruled that this violation of fundamental rights lacks a legal basis. Well, that observation is quite something: to reduce fundamental rights without a legal basis. This Chamber likes Poland and Hungary, but here our own government is violating the fundamental rights of citizens. It's popularly called "abuse of power." Yesterday, in the House of Representatives, I heard a supporter of Turkish President Erdogan calling our Prime Minister a "dictator." Well, I don't want to go that far, but humility would fit the government. Also the House of Representatives did not realize that the curfew, which had already been introduced, was not legitimate. He's agreed to abuse of power. The People's Assembly did not provide a counterweight to the government for the freedom of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u107	Of course, it is a classic rhetorical trick to quote Mr Kuzu and say that you do not want to say that - but you have said it in the meantime. Like, "I don't call you a villain," but I did say it, didn't I? In any case, I would like to point out that this is a very transparent rhetorical twist. But the other thing is: does Mr Frentrop, if he also quotes Hungary and Poland, agree with me that it was not unthinkable that the state in those countries would be corrected by the judge, and that that would be a great asset of a rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u108	I will be happy to discuss the rhetoric at another time, because I do not know what that means. I am not aware of the situation in Poland and Hungary. I only hear Members of Parliament say that fundamental rights are being regularly violated and that this Chamber is concerned about this. What exactly happens there, I don't know. However, I note that fundamental rights are clearly affected here. And not because I think so, but that's what the judge decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u109	But my question was whether Mr Frentrop does not welcome the fact that we live in a rule of law in which the judge can do so, whether you agree with the ruling or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u110	Yeah, thank God. I'm going to come back to that in detail. I'm even going to raise the discastocracy, so we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u111	I hear the honourable Member arguing that there is actually no legal basis under curfew at the moment. I have read the judgment of the judge in the interim proceedings, but I do not read that in any way. In my view, the operative part of that judgment is that the government should withdraw the law as soon as possible, either by means of an accompanying or similar wording. That's where the government went in an emergency. We have all been able to enjoy it on TV or that suspensive effect would or would not be given to that interim ruling. That suspensive effect has been given. In short, the legal basis is still underneath it. It is exciting what is being decided this afternoon, but at the moment there is still that basis. Does Mr Frentrop agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u112	No, I don't entirely agree with you. I understand what you're talking about. I note that on Tuesday it was decided that the measure taken, the curfew, should be reversed immediately because there was not enough legal basis. That's what I call abuse of power. I also know that there has then been another procedure to make it possible again for a while. We can talk about this, but my point is that it is a serious matter and not just a measure has been reversed, but that a violation of fundamental rights has been reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u113	In any case, I have misunderstood you when you say that there is currently no legal basis under curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u114	I'm not a lawyer. I understand that the curfew is still valid today because of the court's provisional suspension pending the verdict. So far, there is a legal basis. Only then the judge said that that legal basis is not right. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u115	I am not a lawyer either, but I thought you were very quick to say that the curfew measure was introduced without a legal basis and without a legal framework. Of course, that's not right. The Wbbbg is the basis that has been used, and it does offer the possibility to make the decision first with a KB for the introduction of the curfew and to have the legislative process followed in the Second and First Chambers. That legislative process should have taken place as a matter of urgency. The judge said something about that. And then the follow-up was as you point out. But it is not the case that the curfew has just been declared without a legal basis being chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u116	Yes, that's right, insofar as there wasn't enough and there was no proper legal basis. That way we can still...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u117	I would say: continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u118	May I continue, Mr. Chairman? I would have said that our fellow Members on the other side of the House have failed. Clearly, because they have not countered the government's abuse of power. But of course you shouldn't throw stones at the neighbors when your own house is made of glass. In the First Chamber this violation of the fundamental rights of citizens had not even been dealt with and discussed at all. Did we even notice the abuse of power? We'll never know. It is all the more reason to be cautious now when we look again at the debate. And there's another reason: the case is under trial. When a case is under trial, that's usually also a reason for politics to be cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u119	Another correction: it is not true that the bill was not on the table here. It was already in this Chamber, but we decided by a majority that the plenary session should not take place until next Tuesday. But it doesn't make any sense that it wasn't the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u120	I really don't want to put salt on all the snails, but if we don't treat it yet, it hasn't been discussed in my eyes. That is a matter of formulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u121	In fact, he is already in the process, because written questions have already been asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u122	Well, at least it was being handled. Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u123	I notice that you have used the word "abuse of power" three times, perhaps four times, for the way in which the cabinet acts. That seems to me to be wrong, because it has been properly voted on, especially in the House of Representatives. I don't think you can speak of abuse of power. That seems a little too far. I go along with my colleague Mr Backer of D66 that words are always used that do not fit and are not in line with reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u124	I said 'abuse of power' because it is popularly referred to as the government's taking measures that do not have a sufficient legal basis. That's what I call... that's what the people call "abuse of power." If you do not like that term, you may invent another term for it, but I would like to call it that. I don't think that's very absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u126	Mr. Chairman. We're not waiting for the court's ruling today. We need to deal with the matter, discuss how it should be done now and even vote on it, that is the intention. That vote will not be exciting, because I have already understood from yesterday's votes in the House of Representatives that all the parties who think they will come to a next cabinet after the elections have already agreed. Personally, I find it arrogant of the government not to wait for the court's ruling on appeal. I also think it is a form of contempt for the judiciary by the States-General for the government to give in to this turbo-speed. However, we have been found in a majority to be willing to join; that is why we are meeting here today against the will of the VVD before we know what the court is going to say and before we know what the state is going to say there. So we now have only the ruling of the welfare judge, who has given the government and the Lower House a corrective tap. That judge also seems to be concerned that the government and the House of Representatives are nevertheless continuing on the wrong path. For in her judgment of last Tuesday, after having found that the measure had to be withdrawn immediately, I quote, she mentions'some considerations on points which may be relevant in a follow-up'. Mr. Chairman. I am now almost speaking specifically to Mr Backer. In the past, the Forum for Democracy has criticized the functioning of judges in the Netherlands. We believe that we can do the same. But we also congratulate judges when they do their job well. We congratulate Mrs Hoekstra-van Vliet on the verdict she has delivered. Not because of the content of that judgment, but precisely because it also included in its judgment further considerations in the course of a follow-up. This is not customary, but it does a special service to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u127	In the light of the triad, I always like "hulde to the right," but we call it "the right" and not by name. I would like to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u128	I don't know how to use it. I have the verdict here, there's a name on it. That's why I'd like to go by name... look, from people who are suspicious, I won't use the name, but with a judge I compliment, I'll still use the name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u129	Then let me explain. The point is that the judge over there is to judge on behalf of all of us. That is why it is not a lady who speaks the law, but the judge who is ordered to speak the law. That's my point. So I really like that Mr. Frentrop sprinkles with compliments. That's what he has to keep doing. But when it comes to the judge, it's the judge on behalf of all of us. That is why I am making this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u130	I've indicated why I'd like to pay a special compliment to this judge. I can only do that by calling her by name, because she has done something very special in her judgment. I would also like to use that in the rest of my speech, because she has given us a manual on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u131	I can also see that Mr Frentrop will not agree with me here, but if he compliments the judge, then he compliments the case-law, which we all have in mind. We'll wait and see what the court thinks about that. The judge is here on behalf of all of us. That's not a person, I think that's essential, but it speaks the law in this state. That is why I would like to make this point. You can find it covered, but I think it's okay to mark the triad. Nor do we address a minister to Piet Jansen, no, it is the Minister of Justice or the President of this Chamber. That is the use, and I am committed to it, precisely because it is in this way that we continue to debate the functions of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u132	I agree with what Mr Bikker says. Furthermore, I should also like to say that, although Mr Frentrop does not indicate that this appreciation for this judge has to do with the content of the ruling, he is not so much in favour of ruling on the issue as in favour of the considerations abounding in the direction of politics. Let me put it this way: I find this striking because, in other cases, Mr Frentrop, at least his party, still wants to blame judges for giving too much direction to politics. It is precisely in these considerations that it goes naturally towards giving frameworks to politics. There's nothing wrong with that, but I'd say there's nothing wrong with it in other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u133	I didn't think I'd get so much criticism and questions on a compliment to the judge. It's a heartfelt compliment. That I do so and that my party sometimes criticises me, I don't think I've ever publicly criticized a judge before, I can imagine. The fact that I am doing this specifically has to do with the fact that it is a matter of very great importance. I don't taste that enough in the Second and First Chambers. People have been deprived of fundamental rights, without sufficient legal basis. That's why I'm complimenting the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u134	You're going to repeat yourself. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u135	All the lawyers present here will agree with Mrs Bikker's comments. The judge has ruled as a judge and not with a specific name. That's obvious. We must be careful that by mentioning that name, as Mr Frentrop does, there is a suggestion that other judges might have been able to do something else. The point is that this is the vision of the welfare court. We're gonna have to do it with that. That's point one. Secondly, Mr Frentrop had already said that he is not a lawyer, that it is not unusual at all, especially in administrative law, and to some extent this is a state-law administrative point, which also indicates which questions remain which the administrative board can pick up when taking a new decision. It's very common. Then there is the third point, with which I come to Mrs De Boer. There is no reference to politics in the sense of 'think carefully about it', there is a legal judgment here, also in these considerations abound: if new decisions are taken by any body, then these things are important in the legal framework. That is why it is so good that we here in the First Chamber look at this legality. I think that we should look at this as the First Chamber, not because we are politically committed to it, but because we have been held to do so from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u136	An interruption is a short question. I'll give you another 20 minutes in your own time. Any short response, Mr. Frentrop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u137	I broadly agree with Mr Nicolaï. That's why I brought it up. These guidelines have been given to different bodies and therefore to us. I would like to deal with these guidelines in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u138	I have just heard a number of interruptions about all the lawyers in this Chamber. For a moment, I was touched by that. When the American judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg died recently, there were compliments to be had. She was called by name everywhere at the time, also because of the content of her judgments. It is therefore not unusual at all to name and congratulate a judge who is indeed a defender of the public interest. The point is: the judge speaks in the interests of all of us, but also in public. And the public debate can therefore include the name of the judge. Does Mr Frentrop agree that this public debate also includes the name of a judge, for the good and for the bad, and that we can simply talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u139	A brief response, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u141	Does Mr Frentrop agree with me that the US legal system is a completely different one? Judges are elected and appointed by a President. That is indeed a completely different type of case law. In this country, our judge is impartial on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u142	Thank you. I note that Mr Frentrop spoke in the last few minutes of his speech about the judge, in accordance with the request. I propose that we conclude this part of the debate now. It is customary to appoint people here as much as possible and perhaps you can take this into account. Will you continue your argument, Mr. Frentrop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u143	Yes, after highlighting my compliments to Mrs... The considerations which are important, according to the undisclosed court, are of great importance, because we are now working on the follow-up to which she spoke. We're also in the middle of a major emergency. So I'd like to use the judge's fingertips. The first is proportionality. Is the interest proportionate to the infringement? In other words, for the non-lawyer, is it necessary? She mentioned the follow-up procedure. The second is subsidiarity. Is this the best way to reach it or are there any other ways? For the non-lawyer, can it be otherwise? And it is certainly important to be effective. With this violation of rights, the curfew, do I achieve what I intend to achieve? To start with that last one, Mr. Chairman. We don't know! We do not know whether curfew contributes to the fight against the epidemic. Even the Outbreak Management Team doesn't know that. I quote last Tuesday's verdict: "The OMT says it has no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution to reducing the virus." I would suggest that we read this very carefully, because that is what it says "in its own words." So this is not a judge's opinion or judgment, this is a legal fact. The fact is that the OMT has no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution to reducing the virus. The effectiveness is therefore not there. The proposed law is not necessary. Mr Recourt said in his speech: we may have to do it, but maybe we shouldn't. The fact is that there is no evidence that the curfew is effective. That's what the OMT says, and that's a fact. As far as I am concerned, we are actually done with the debate for today. We don't have to talk anymore. We can go home now and maybe go for a walk tonight, because there's no proof the curfew works. So you should not do it, because there is no reason to undermine fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u144	I hear Mr Frentrop fulminating against curfew. The leader of his party is talking about corona as a flu. "It's just a flu." For the record, I do not share that view. But how does Mr Frentrop explain, if he thinks it is unnecessary and his party thinks it is nothing more than a flu, that at the beginning of the year Mr Frentrop was a great supporter of closing down the entire First Chamber and going digitally to vote and meet? He didn't want to come to the room anymore! He wanted to set a permanent curfew and curfew for the entire First Chamber. Please explain this to us, because I do not see any consistency in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u145	Where should I start, Mr. Chairman? I'm not gonna fill up against curfew. You didn't hear me do that, but I did say that curfew didn't work at all. That's not because I don't think it works and it's not because some expert thinks it doesn't. It's because the judge has established that all the experts gathered in the Netherlands, the government's main advisor... used to be the Economic and Social Council, now that's the Outbreak Management Team, the outbreak management committee, or I don't know what it's called in Dutch. We don't know who's in there. We don't know what they're doing. We don't know how they vote. We don't know how they're elected. But they are the experts and they say: the curfew does not work and has no effect; we cannot prove that it has any effect. Well, then I say, let's stop curfew! That's what we thought three months ago and before that. Then we knew much less, but now we know one thing: the curfew does not work. So that's what you hear me say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u146	But I don't hear an answer to my question. We are part of our efforts to meet in this Knight's Room. If it had been up to Mr Frentrop, the entire First Chamber would have closed in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u147	That's not true at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u148	...because he was so afraid of the corona virus. Then, thanks to our efforts, we moved to the Knight's Room and the democratic process can continue. But please explain to me: do you also think it's just a flu and that it's all nonsense, this corona virus, as you do day in, day out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u149	I'll just make the suggestion that we confine ourselves to the bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u150	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u151	... and do not have a debate here on the functioning of the First Chamber in crisis time, no matter how much that subject interests me, of course. Maybe you can both confine yourself to the bill after all. Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u152	Then what do you want me to answer? On the flu? I didn't hear a question about the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u153	Well, if you do not see a question to answer, then finally Mr Otten has the floor, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u154	I note that Mr Frentrop does not seem to want to defend this inconsistency in his behaviour and in his party. Well, okay, I'll take that for notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u155	I have the next question. Does Mr Frentrop agree with me that governance is also forward-looking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u156	I don't have to think about that for long. The answer to this question is in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u157	From that perspective you will sometimes also have to do things that have not yet been proven to work, but which you have reasonable suspicions that it will or will not work. I think that is exactly what the OMT's opinion says, that they can't prove it exactly yet, because it hasn't happened before, but that there are many reasons, well-founded, to make this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u158	No, I have to correct you. I'll quote what it says. "The OMT has" in its own words "no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution to reducing the virus." No evidence of a substantial contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u159	Finally, Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u160	I note that there can indeed be no evidence, because it has not happened before, but it is indicated that, on the basis of a number of clear assumptions, it can be expected that this will have a good impact. So no evidence, right, but that's why rule is forward-looking as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u161	I often hear here as an argument: there is no evidence that it works, but let's try it anyway. If it were a cough drink, I'd agree. But when it comes to the violation of fundamental rights, I think that reasoning is a bit easy. This is the reasoning of let's say the old Aztecs. If the harvest failed, they sacrificed some people to the gods, hoping that it would still rain. Sometimes that worked. Maybe it'll help. I kind of feel like we're at that level right now. We don't have any proof that it's working, but let's give it a shot. Breaking fundamental rights? Who cares?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u162	I would like you to continue, but perhaps Mrs De Bruijn has a short final question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u163	I think the Outbreak Management Team said there's no scientific evidence. That's of a very different order, because right now, in this situation, it's just not possible to have a control group that you release the virus on, and another group that you take measures for, and then see what the difference is in the number of infections. We just can't get that kind of evidence in this situation. In that sense, I would like to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u164	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u165	I don't know if that's right. That is an assumption from my honourable colleague. All I know is that the OMT doesn't have any evidence. Why not? I don't know. We can speculate on that, but I don't think that's very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u166	I would like to make the point that no randomized controlled trial can indeed be carried out. I don't think anyone's arguing for that either. You can only simply look at the situation before you introduce measures and after that. I think it's kind of weird that we're gonna use that as a point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u167	Mrs. Pouw, do you have another question? Of course, this is the first time you have spoken on behalf of the Nanninga Group, but an interruption is intended for a short question. I'll give you a term later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u168	I will stick to my brief remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u169	I was looking at proportionality, subsidiarity and effectiveness. There is no effectiveness. As far as I'm concerned, we're done. For the record, I would also like to mention proportionality. The judge said he's not here either. In its opinion, the Council of State has called for further justification. I've hardly seen that motivation. Subsidiarity has also been explained even thinly. I can see in the explanatory statement that a limited curfew is not working. Then we can do something else. Of course, if curfew doesn't work, a limited curfew doesn't work either. That's not the question. The question is, can we do something else? Mr Recourt has all given examples of other measures. I have three questions for the Minister concerning proportionality and subsidiarity. One. How are the concerns of the Court of Justice regarding proportionality and subsidiarity addressed in the legislative proposal for a new curfew? Two. The verdict states that the OMT, in its own words, has no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution. My question to the Minister is: did the OMT find that evidence between Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, when the bill was written, and if so, where? In addition, this is a proof of the usefulness of curfew as an independent measure, and not linked to other things such as urgent advice to receive no more than one person at home. Then there's the third question and the final question. Has the Minister considered whether a lighter instrument, such as information or an urgent opinion, could have the same effect? That is subsidiarity. The question is: has the Minister examined subsidiarity? The answer just has to be yes or no. That's enough for me. Mr. Chairman. Jojo policy is bad. That is what we think of the Forum for Democracy. But jojo policy is not lifting curfew. The yo-yo effect was to set the curfew after this was considered unnecessary for almost a year. I have a nice quote from David Ricardo in this field: "Governments use two kinds of scientific advice that they take over. One species is advice which is useful to the government and which is correct. The second type is advice which is useful to the government, but which is incorrect." Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u170	You're almost finished, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u171	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u172	If you conclude, I will give the floor to Mr Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u173	I'm a careful man. However, when the weather is good, I want to be able to go for a walk. That is why I am quoting the founder of American independence, Benjamin Franklin, for the inspiration of all the members of this house. He observed that those who sacrifice essential freedom for the sake of a little temporary security are not worth either. That is why I do not think this debate should last long today. It is really only one matter: who is prepared to give up fundamental rights without need? On the basis of the vote in the House of Representatives, I predict that a large majority in this House will be prepared to do so, but we as a Forum for Democracy are not. We do not provide fundamental rights for false security. We're against it. Even if the debate lasts so long tonight that we can no longer be present at the formal votes, I would be happy to give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u174	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u175	Very briefly a comment on the Aztecs. They sacrificed people. I don't know if that's the point. Mr Frentrop mentioned evidence. The OMT expects the effect of curfew to be between 8% and 13%. The Prime Minister said yesterday in the Lower House that it would be about 10%. He hasn't indicated that that's a strict evidence, but it's still a substantial number. When I look at the past week, I see that there have been an average of 26,500 cases in which people were tested positive. If I take 10%, it's 2,560 people who seem to have gotten sick because of that curfew. That is the Prime Minister's expectation and the OMT goes even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u176	What's your question, Mr. Raven?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u177	Are you sacrificing these people like the Aztecs, like, "Let that curfew go? Then we're not gonna make it to 13%, we're not gonna make it to 10%. Sorry about the people who get it."?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u178	You're turning my equation of those good Aztecs. I do not want to follow that example. I note that this was thought like this, as those people thought: "You know what, it doesn't benefit then it doesn't harm. We can do something serious, we sacrifice some people to the gods and maybe it will rain." It could be true, but we don't know. The figures you mention, too, I absolutely do not dispute your arithmetic. I don't know. I'm just looking at the facts. For the facts, I look at things that are actually true. Things that are actually true in the Netherlands, which are in judgments before the judge and I read in the judgment of the judge: the OMT has, in its own words, "so that's what the OMT says..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u179	Now we're gonna repeat it, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u180	Yes, but this was fought. I have no proof that curfew is making a substantial contribution to reducing the virus. You can find something else, a lot of people can find something else, but this is OMT's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u181	Mr. Raven, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u182	I can see you'll sacrifice those people, more or less. I would also like to add that in the week before the curfew was introduced there were 31% more positive tests compared to the last week. This proves that the measures taken in complex, total, are a significant reduction in the number of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u183	Thank you. Mr. Frentrop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u184	That doesn't prove it at all, I have to say. Maybe there's a place in the OMT you can put these calculations for. The OMT doesn't think so, doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u185	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u186	Thank you, Mr President. A young mother said, as a result of last Tuesday's developments, I quote: because one person in court manages to abolish curfew, our children will soon be back home. It's a quote. It's not my judgment on the court ruling. Mr. Chairman. The vast majority of Dutch people understand that the curfew is part of a whole set of measures that should jointly ensure that the spread of the coronavirus is contained as much as possible. People also understand that it is a fragile balance and that if you pull one block out, the structure will be shaken again. The VVD looks with some concern at the cargo specifically given to that curfew, while for a long time there are many other measures that also significantly restrict citizens' freedom of movement. The way in which curfew has been communicated will certainly have contributed to this. I just heard Mrs Baay use words that the Minister would have said, that the curfew is the closing of society. I actually want to say that here too words matter. However, the cabinet has always indicated its intention to stay away from Article 103 of the Constitution and the Co-ordination Act, i.e. the law governing the state of emergency. However, since the limitation of curfew freedom is a little higher than other corona measures, I quote the Minister, the government has chosen to regulate curfew by means of the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, which, in exceptional circumstances, gives the director the powers to take urgently necessary measures. In our view, this heavier load, which is thus placed on the curfew, is not entirely justified. I'll get back to you in a minute. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group sees, and that was the case yesterday during the debate in the Lower House, that as long as the legality of the Extraordinary Powers Act is still under the courts as a basis for curfew, the government will answer no different than it has so far done to the question of why the measure is not immediately included under the Temporary Law measures covid-19. My group's main consideration of doing so is not necessarily that Parliament's involvement is pre-arranged rather than ex-post. It is much more in the sensitivities that the removal of these emergency powers has brought with it and the emotional charge that the curfew has received with it. The fact that we are here today, again during a recess, shows that if something really needs to be dealt with urgently, this can also be done in a regular legislative process, with associated parliamentary involvement. Then there is the substantive assessment of the bill before us today. The curfew is an addition to the measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus. The VVD Group is convinced that additional measures, including curfew, are necessary to prevent or dampen the virus's revival in a so-called third wave in the light of the emergence of the new more contagious mutations of the coronavirus. To consider whether the curfew is proportional, we have to rely on the models of the OMT. They calculate that this measure will bring about a 10% reduction in the number of contacts. That's the curfew along with the tighter visitation schedule. Of course, whether this reduction can be achieved will always depend on the degree of compliance. At the moment, there is very high public support for curfew and its compliance, which is a compliment to all the inhabitants of our country. The latest reports show that since the introduction of curfew, the number of meetings between people has decreased. The extent to which curfew contributes to this as an isolated measure cannot be estimated, but this applies to all the measures we have taken in the past year. Effects can often only be measured ex post and, of course, compliance with the measure still plays a role. Freedom of movement, by the way, is a high defence good, but it is also freedom to move without risk of contamination. Therefore, given the current situation of the pandemic, the VVD considers the measure proportionate. Nor can we see that the measure can be replaced by another less harmful measure. For all the corona measures, there is collateral damage, both socially and emotionally, socially and economically. The extent of the damage depends, in particular, very much on the individual circumstances in which the citizens are at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u187	A quick question. I have argued that, when it comes to proportionality, you should not only look at the infections and what the measure does to them, but also take account of the potential harmful effects of the measure itself. Do you agree and how do you weigh that in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u188	I have just indicated that this weighting is largely dependent on what rule it concerns. I'll get back to you in a minute. That's why I interrupted you earlier. We are now looking very specifically at the Court of Justice, of course, has done so as regards the proportionality of the curfew measure and possibly the possibility of subsidiarity for it, but this weighting has not been to such a great extent in other measures. I realize that for young people the curfew measure is very heavy, but you will immediately hear me say that there are also signs that there are people for whom the visitor limit is the toughest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u189	I follow this story, but my general question was whether you agree with me that a weighting of proportionality should also include the weighting of the harmful effects of the measure itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u190	Yes, but at the same time it's very difficult to map. I think we'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u191	You will continue your speech, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u192	Let's see where I left off, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u193	Halfway through the page, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u194	Halfway through the page, thank you very much. I just indicated that the effects of measures can only be measured afterwards. In this respect, compliance with the measures is always important. We all know that, at the beginning of last year, the intelligent lockdown, for example, followed homework measures much more intensively than was the case later during the pandemic. I just indicated that I think the measure is proportionate. Nor can we see that this measure can simply be replaced by another, because it is very difficult to weigh the collateral damage. But that applies to every measure. I'm where I left off now, Mr. Chairman. So many talk about curfew as a serious measure. But I am speaking, as I have just indicated, also people who experience the one-visitor scheme at home as the toughest measure and for others the closure of schools weighs very heavily. And what about the closure of your company? I think there are many people who want to maintain the curfew if it makes it possible to reopen businesses or schools. Finally, therefore, a question to the Minister. Shouldn't curfew be taken into account as a measure in an interruption that has already been indicated, rather than the separate status it has now been given as the first measure to be scaled down? I would like a response from the government. Mr President, before I close, I see that there is going to be an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u195	I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u196	We are currently living in an extraordinary and complicated reality. 17 million people are looking at us to see if we are making the right decisions on their behalf to protect their health and whether we are doing everything we can to get society back on track as soon as possible. Many people do not understand the legal jousting that has developed over the past week. They want clarity. So let's give it to them as soon as possible. Fast, but not less careful. We consider this law, as it stands, based on the Law on temporary measures covid-19, a good basis for the curfew measure. After the vote, I think we need to get back to work quickly on everything that remains to be done in the context of combating the pandemic. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. There is an opportunity for one question, because I do not want to have a fight with Mrs Faber, whom I promised to vote by roll call at 12.15 p.m. Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u198	My interruption won't last more than half an hour, you know!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u199	But after you, Mr Nicolaï comes with his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u200	I'd be worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u201	And we have to be in time for Mrs Faber, so one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u202	One question. Good. Mr De Bruijn has said a lot about the effects. Does she have reason to think that in the Netherlands only one person received covid as a result of an evening walk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u203	Mrs. De Bruijn, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u204	Let me put it this way: all the measures are based on preventing contact between people as much as possible. Then you need to see how you can arrange that. Well, we know the one-and-a-half meter rule, and yet it doesn't work enough to prevent people from getting in touch. Look, I walk a lot, and then you see that it's really hard to maintain that one-and-a-half meter rule. Who's to say that walking very close doesn't lead to contamination? However, I see the measure in such a way that you want to avoid contact between people as much as possible, so that the virus cannot jump over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u206	It is known that especially in the evening, when people often meet for a long time, people come closer to each other than is explicitly intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u207	I'm seeing a lot of interrupters right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u208	Really super short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u209	Yeah, but I'm gonna take a look at the order. That is of course fine, but then I will suspend for the time needed to prepare you for the roll-call vote. After lunch, we will continue with Mr Nicolaï as the next speaker. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u210	My question is about proportionality. An evening walk doesn't just give you covid. Isn't that also the point about this measure, which is that it's so blunt? Is it not a party like the VVD, which always stresses its own responsibility, that the proportionality is completely lost here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u211	With the constant recourse to our own responsibility, we have begun in this crisis. We are aware of last year's intelligent lockdown, in which the government urged people to comply with all measures. However, we have noted that this does not work for everyone. For example, this type of solution has been chosen for the groups in which it does not work, because it is enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u212	Thank you. Then I'll look at Mr. Backer first. Then I'll see if I can reverse the order of speakers. 'Cause that's probably what you're gonna suggest, Mr. Nicolaï. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u213	One question. In fact, I hear Mrs De Bruijn talking about various measures that you might be able to redeem. If we keep the curfew, maybe there's something else we can do. My question is: Article 2 of the law that we are discussing today actually states that the existing curfew will be given a legal basis. That means that today, when we vote on that law, we must also vote on the measure of curfew as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u214	Thank you. Mrs. De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u215	And my question is: shouldn't you check it against that principle of necessity? How does Mrs De Bruijn view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u216	Well, I indicated in my plea that, given the situation where the pandemic is still in and the threat of even more contagious viruses coming towards us, the set of measures to limit human contact should indeed be extended. I very much hope that this is of a temporary nature. Next week, in the discussion of the Royal Decree on the continuation of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, I will focus on that aspect of temporaryity: are we going to do everything possible to ensure that the measures are as short as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u217	Thank you. Then Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u218	I thought Mrs Wezeman had finished her speech, because I have no further questions to ask her. I have an order question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u219	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u220	There are several members of our group on their way to be here on time, but they are not going to make it. So I would actually like to amend your order proposal by half an hour so that we can vote at 12.45 p.m. Otherwise we simply are not able to get enough people up and running. I think that does not really disturb the order of the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u221	Mr President, there are other people in this house who have other appointments after noon and who are in danger of getting into trouble. So I'd just like to stick to 12:15. I don't think it's really necessary for everyone to be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u222	You also agreed to 12.15 p.m. Mr. Backer, I see you throwing your hands in the air. I interpret that as a form of consent. Then I have an order proposal of my own. In view of the time allowed, I propose that, if Mr Nicolaï agrees, Mr Van Dijk should first be given the floor. After the suspension for lunch, I shall give the floor to Mr Nicolaï. Is that okay, Mr. Nicolaï? And for you, too, Mr. Van Dijk? Yeah? Then I'd be happy to give you the floor. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the last century lived here near a reformed minister in The Hague, Dr. W. Aalders. He wrote the following: "The government is the guarantor," she guarantees "the order in the conduct of free personalities within the general public." If, however, it "is going to protect and care for man in such a way that his life as a free and responsible personality no longer comes to his own, then it has exceeded its limits." Mr. Chairman. How far does government power go? When does it exceed the limits given to personal freedoms? Corona put us in a crisis. That is why far-reaching government measures can be defended. However, in times of crisis, it is even more necessary for these measures to be based on a solid legal basis and to meet the requirements of proportionality. Here begin our critical questions about curfew, a measure that forbids, for example, a citizen from taking a walk in the outdoors before bedtime, no matter how good that would be for his well-being, both physically and psychologically. I just said that in an interruption: no one gets covid from an evening walk. It is not for nothing that I use this example, because it may be characteristic of the current approach. A former colleague e-mailed me a cry of hearts: "Does everything sound for physical health? What about the other values? Mental health? Look out for each other? Mercy?" How do we ensure that these other values are better taken into account in policy? This weighting of different values must be carried out by politics. We must not shift that responsibility to scientists and experts. And here's the thing about the corona policy, whose curfew is a symptom. Many people experience that clock as a kind of mercy strike, while they already have to follow so many rules. The government is still acting on the basis of crisis management. More and more activities are banned with increasing rigour. Is this the right route? Do we have to get stricter or do we have to explain and seduce more? Isn't it high time to do another way of influencing things? The current approach can also make people recalcitrant and can counterproductively work. And is it not symptomatic that precisely when a judge comes to protect the citizen from an over-intentioned government, that government takes even more stubbornly to legal means to keep the citizens under control? Shouldn't this lead to reflection? Mr. Chairman. Curfew's gonna turn this whole thing on. There is no objective evidence regarding the effectiveness of curfew. Now that the cabinet is so keen on this measure, the cabinet unintentionally suggests that facts do not really matter in the policy pursued, but that it is only about keeping the tension on it. This undermines the basis of support. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. The judgment of the Supreme Court was clear; the Wbbbg should not have been used as the basis for the curfew. As a result of the ruling of the Supreme Court, the suspension of this judgment and the appeal that is pending today, there are now two traces of legislation regulating the curfew. This is undesirable in times of crisis, where trust in the approach is important. Why continue to use the Wbbbg and underlying bill as a safety net? Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has also ruled that the Wbbbg route should be abandoned if this bill is accepted. Why doesn't the cabinet choose to do so? Mr. Chairman. The more radical the measure, the higher the bar. In the case of a curfew, the court of provision states that it is a far-reaching restriction on the freedom of movement of citizens, which calls for a very careful decision-making process. The government's statement that a curfew is inevitable is at least debatable and not very convincingly motivated. The Council of State also said in the opinion on this bill: government, you need to better motivate proportionality. This proportionality is and remains a hot issue. What does curfew contribute to the fight against virus? The OMT comes with valuable advice, but is that 8% to 13% reduction not too rosy? Because the research in which these figures are presented is a package of measures, as has already been changed. What should we do as a senate if the government makes it impossible to assess the proportionality of a far-reaching intervention on freedoms, such as curfew, because it is tied to the enhanced visitation regime? Is it not improperly messed up by the Senate if the government clearly acknowledges that the individual effectiveness of curfew cannot be established? In addition, a large part of the population is willing to follow the curfew. Then why does the cabinet not look seriously at the possibility of an urgent opinion? Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister really taking the judge's ruling seriously? The judge ruled not only on the basis of curfew, but also on proportionality. And I do not see this proportionality better regulated in this bill. And as far as proportionality is concerned, the fact that there is support in the Lower House and there are OMT opinions does not mean that this bill is proportionate in the eyes of the judge. Proportionality is a legal qualification, not a political one. The amenities court ruled on this earlier. The cabinet will have to demonstrate very clearly that the curfew is proportionate to the social consequences. Why does the Minister think that this bill will be considered proportionate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u224	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I would then be able to give the floor to Mrs Prins, if there are no objections to the suspension. So I'm gonna turn the order around a little bit. If there are no objections, then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Prins, who will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u225	Mr. Chairman. Let me say, like some of the previous speakers, that we, as the First Chamber, are setting a record again today. As was recalled last January 8th, since 3 November 1950 it had not been possible for the First Chamber to meet on a Friday. And now we meet again on a Friday. It's a new record. And again because of the corona virus. The truth is that the virus has been forcing people to adapt their behaviour for over a year, not only in the Netherlands, but also in other places in the world, so fundamental that it also affects our fundamental fundamental rights. So is this bill. Setting a curfew is a very violent procedure in our lives. It is precisely in conjunction with the urgent advice to receive only one visitor a day that this measure will make it even less possible to go outside, to exercise even less and to have even less social contacts. All things that many citizens, young and old, really want. The CDA group not only realizes that this intervention is intense, but also that the corona virus with an increasing number of infectious variants is also violent. It is so intense that we understand how this far-reaching measure is to be taken. However, we still have a few questions for the cabinet. Our questions on legality are as follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u226	I hear Mrs Prins from the CDA say that they are very violent measures, which are deeply affecting our society and are far-reaching to our citizens, but that in the meantime she understands this measure, this curfew, which severely restricts the fundamental rights of citizens. Can the CDA, therefore, indicate what concrete and foreseeable impact this measure will have, which is why it understands the seriousness of the damage to citizens' fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u227	Yes, we can. In the light of the calculation, the expectation and the assumptions, it is indeed not more than that, but those are very clearly stated................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's what I'm saying in my head. The Prime Minister also mentioned 10% yesterday, so he was in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u228	Mrs. Prince of the CDA says it already: they are assumptions. There is nothing concrete to be determined at all. And that's the problem. This is based on a 10% percentage, but this is only in conjunction with other measures. The curfew is not concretely testable and measurable as an independent measure. And yet this is one of the most far-reaching measures of the Second World War, for which the CDA now claims to understand. In the meantime, the CDA says: we feel so sorry for all those people who can't go out there and are restricted in all their freedoms. How can the CDA sustain it, when it is based solely on assumptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u229	Mrs Prins, please give a brief answer and then continue your speech. I'm afraid I really have to go on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u230	As I point out to you, I believe that the cabinet has a responsibility to make decisions and choices on the basis of the data and assumptions that were known at the time, and to weigh them in a responsible way. And with that I can continue my speech, because I do have a number of questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u231	Then I'd say, "Let's do it." Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u232	Finally. Mrs. Prins is talking about "responsible." But how justified is it to impose such heavy coercive measures on society on the basis of assumptions, without demonstrating any proven effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u233	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I suggest that you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u234	Our questions of legality are the following. The explanatory memorandum states that, in line with the opinion of the Council of State, this legislative proposal has been incorporated into the Temporary Law measures covid-19, in order to ensure consistency between the measures for the control of infectious diseases and the associated obligations and powers. The question here is: what have been the considerations to introduce these measures earlier with the help of the Special Powers Civil Authority Act? In other words, why not then and now it is? We have not yet been able to get to this question in the Chamber, which was scheduled for next Tuesday. In this context, the question of whether the cabinet is now convinced that any future legal proceedings will uphold this law, and with what justification. Mr. Chairman. This measure is far-reaching. The question of subsidiarity and proportionality must therefore be asked. Reducing the reproductive number of the virus is of course crucial. And as a CDA group, we realise that a mix of measures is simply necessary. A fair approach from the cabinet. Then the question lives with us: have alternatives been considered, and what impact would they have on the reproduction number, again on the basis of assumptions? The explanatory memorandum states that RIVM expects the English variant to hit hard in March/April, with all the consequences, and again overload in the care. Should we read this remark in such a way that it expects the curfew to remain active for so long? What is the government's prognosis of the deadline? With regard to the time-limit, a second question: does the curfew time-limit now run with the three months of the Temporary Law measures covid-19? In other words, the extension of this law will be on the agenda for the next week, and will it be necessary for the curfew to be approved again? Did we get this right? I would like an explanation of this. As far as proportionality is concerned, we have also understood that the good news is that mobility movements decreased by 50% to 75% during curfew time. This is a sturdy bandwidth, so we are curious about some more insight behind the figures. Does it concern all the movements of people, walking, in the car, in public transport? And is there any view of whether part of these movements would have gone from night to day, for example students who go home earlier? This would give us a complete picture and a beginning of the burden of proof that we could build over time, which could help us to support this measure. Mr. Chairman, we look forward to the answers, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u236	Then I'm going to suspend until 12:15. The roll-call votes will take place at 12.15 p.m. on the three order proposals put forward by Mrs Faber. At the end of those three votes, I will suspend for 45 minutes for lunch. And after that lunch break we will resume the debate, with Mr Nicolaï as the first speaker. All this, of course, depends on the outcome of the votes on the proposals. I'm now suspending until 12:15. Mr. Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u237	Mr President, could you repeat the order of business? For example, I don't know what the third was anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u238	We shall do so at the start of voting time. Before we vote, these order proposals will be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u239	But for the discussion it is nice to know, because there are now all kinds of people who...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-3.u240	They will have to ask Mrs Faber, but I am going to read out the order proposals at 12.15 p.m. I'm now suspending until 12:15.
