ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	We shall now begin today's first two-minute debate: the two-minute debate on Agriculture and Fisheries on 11 and 12 October. I would like to welcome the Minister. The first speaker is Mrs Vestering of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you. It is good that the Minister has managed to make time available to be here today, in addition to her important work as a negotiator. It doesn't seem to be taken for granted anymore. Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here again today because of agricultural poison. The European Commission proposes that flumioxazine should continue to be used over the next ten years to spray weeds to death. Flumioxazine is an agricultural poison that the food authority has considered to be highly toxic to algae, aquatic plants and various animal species. Furthermore, the hormone-distorting effect on humans and animals cannot be excluded. The poison producer must be able to prove that the poison is not hormonal and apparently it doesn't work. The European Commission's request to use flumioxazine over the next ten years is contrary to its own legislation. Once again, this puts the health of humans, animals and our environment at risk. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is proposing to renew the pesticide authorisation flumioxazine for a period of 10 years, whereas the Food Authority has concluded EFSA that it is toxic to algae, aquatic plants and different animal species, and that hormone-distorting effects cannot be excluded;]] [[Whereas the European Regulation of 1107/2009 provides that only pesticides which have been proven not to be hormone disrupting can be authorised;]] [[calls on the Government, at the forthcoming Agriculture and Fisheries Council, to inform the European Commission of this contradiction with the law and to request that the proposal be withdrawn;]] [[also invites the Government, if the Commission does not withdraw the proposal, to vote against the renewal of the authorisation of flumioxazine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	Last Tuesday, Mrs Vestering put the Minister to work with a motion to phase out pesticides and to achieve a quantitative objective. I hear her use the term again today and I would like to hear from the Animal Party what she actually means by "pesticides."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	Pesticides are toxic chemicals that we know can endanger the health of people, animals and our environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	I don't think that's entirely true. Perhaps the Minister could shed her light on that, too. Pesticides are plant protection products. It's a collective name. They're also biocidal products. For example, we are talking about the ant boxes, which we may all have in the garden. It is a collective name for both common and organic plant protection products. I feel another kind of trick coming from the Party for Animals, just like the Animal Law. I think it is very important for people who are concerned about this adopted motion last Tuesday to know what the Party for Animals means by pesticides. Is this only about chemical and toxic plant protection products? Because then Mr Vestering should have used a different term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	I note that the House of Representatives has agreed to this motion, which I am incredibly pleased with. That gives good hope for our health and our environment. Finally, I would like to give the following opinion. If you want to place an ant lock box like that, don't do it in the garden, because that's the habitat of ants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	This adopted motion creates a lot of unrest for farmers again, while in the end it turns out to be another storm in a glass of water. That's a relief, but it's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. We're back on our feet. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Campen for his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would like to make a final comment. I understand that the VVD finds it very difficult to adopt motions that they did not agree to themselves, but this is the wish of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. I have just spoken about it in my interruption with Mr Vestering. As a result of the motion adopted by the Animal Party for a quantitative phasing-out in ordinary human language, a ban on pesticides has been put in place again. Farmers use plant protection products to prevent the harvest from aging. By doing so, they fight insects, fungi and weeds to ensure that we all have affordable food on the table. It is a good thing that we in this house are talking about how this can be done in a sustainable and green way. I would like to continue to do this with Mr Vestering, but let us choose very carefully the words we use. 'Cause "pesticides" I already told you, "pesticides" is a collective name. These are plant protection products, including organic plant protection products. It is indeed about the ant boxes, which we may have in the garden at the moment when we have trouble and nuisance from unwanted visitors. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how she looks at this motion, particularly with regard to the nuance that Mr Vestering has just made, namely that, in my view, the soup is not eaten as hot as it is served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	That's right. I am extremely pleased with common sense in Mr Van Campen's words, because Mr Van Campen is simply right. Plant protection products are simply intended to ensure that crops come from the country in a healthy way. There is a very strict control of residues and any residues of plant protection products. That's just what we're under. There's a lot of fear going on. I just heard Mrs Vestering say: yes, the Chamber wants this. Well, I doubt that, because when I see who voted for it, that is a lot of parties that never sit in an agricultural debate and really have no idea what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u16	What is your question, Mrs Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yeah, sorry. I'm always passionate about these subjects. I actually wanted to make a proposal to Mr Van Campen. Does he think it would be a good idea for us to work together to get together some parties who do not really know so much about agriculture and then just majority because it seems like a petable motion, just to talk to them about things that are going on in agriculture, just to give them some information? Does he like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u18	I think that is an excellent proposal from Mr Van der Plas. Those plant protection products are just in the farmer's toolbox. It needs that toolbox to provide us with affordable and good food. So let's see if we can do something in the form of a round table to get people who use that toolbox together and let us in the Chamber talk about what this kind of motion means to them in the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'm very happy. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mrs. Vestering, please be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u21	Sure. There's more coffee in the Lower House, I understand. My question to Mr Van Campen is what his response is to the Minister's reply this week, which, for example, has not been tested at all or is it possible to cause parkinson, which we know has a clear link with parkinson. That is now on the agenda for admission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u22	I think I have heard the Minister say "but my answer is sometimes a little less fun for some parties than asking the question "that in November she will come up with a study and a balance of opinion on the effects." I would like to have the debate here on the basis of scientific advice and science. If that report is there later and if those scientific opinions are there later, then I will go with Mrs Vestering to see what is in those reports. As far as I'm concerned, we're doing that while we're enjoying a cup of coffee, because imagine you're looking for a connection with each other. I am very much in favour of that. Then we will see how we can ensure that we can use plant protection products safely and properly for everyone's health and continue to use them as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u23	Very briefly, Mrs. Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u24	Can this also mean, as far as Mr Van Campen is concerned, that, when it is not safe, it can no longer be used, or is it not in his toolbox?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have said that, as far as I am concerned, science is leading and advising in the consultation and authorisation of plant protection products. I therefore await the advice that the Minister has promised from science and draw my conclusion from that. I don't want to anticipate that. As far as I am concerned, the conclusions of the people who really know it are leading, and I await them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you to Mr Van Campen. Mrs Koekkoek van Volt has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about a slightly different subject. In the context of the common agricultural policy, we have seen that this often results in secondary legislation. It is very important and has an impact on how farmers do their work and on how they can predictably anticipate the things they may need to adapt to as farmers. This is contained in secondary legislation, but also in other European laws and regulations, such as Fit for 55. These are uncertainties in the future, and they are often technical things that we in the Chamber do not have direct access to. Just because you want to be able to anticipate this as a Chamber, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that adequate information on the establishment and implementation of European policy for the House of Representatives is necessary in order to carry out its audit task;]] [[noting that there is now a black hole for the national parliament between the sheet assessing an EU proposal and the final game of negotiations in the annotated agenda;]] [[Notes that in Germany the ministries, Bundestag and Bundesrat have a digital portal, a so-called "EU Dox," in which EU documents, including national efforts, can be consulted for officials, directors, members and parliamentary staff;]] [[Whereas early active involvement of the House of Representatives in the establishment and (at a later stage) the implementation of European policies is desirable so that it can provide input on the European agenda and represent the voice of citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an EU monitor which will digitally sort all European legislation and policies, including EU proposals, Dutch commitment, national responses, Council agendas and Council reports from Council working groups and Coreper by theme and file in a government and parliament database,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1348]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the income of farmers in the new CAP has been made of secondary importance;]] [[Whereas the "Earning Power Task Force" appointed by the Minister indicates that a peripheral condition for conversion to circular agriculture requires a level playing field on (international) scale;]] [[Whereas it is important for farmers in the Netherlands to continue to be able to produce sustainable and safe food;]] [[noting that a level playing field for requirements of production conditions is necessary in order not to literally price our food producers out of the market;]] [[calls on the government in the National Strategic Plan not to impose higher production requirements on Dutch food producers than is prescribed, so as to ensure a level playing field for food producers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Commission intends to increase the ambition for CO emission reduction in the sectors covered by the Efficiency Sharing Regulation (hereinafter referred to as the "Effort Sharing Regulation") agriculture, mobility, built environment and small industry in 2030 and that a reduction target of 48% is proposed for the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the 48% target goes beyond the Climate Agreement, while the implementation of this task is already difficult;]] [[Whereas the effects of the increased 48% target on agriculture have hardly been taken into account;]] [[calls on the Government to present as soon as possible what this objective would mean for our agricultural sector and at the forthcoming Agriculture Council to express its concerns about the possible impact of the proposal on agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1349]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1350]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u29	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to be in your midst, I just want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u31	That's what we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u32	Sure, thank you. First, Mrs Vestering's motion on item No. 1347, who is already asking to vote against the adoption of flumioxazine. As Mrs Vestering knows, we always have a procedure for this, namely that we ask the Ctgb for an opinion on the renewal of the authorisation of a particular product. That's what I always inform the Chamber about. I don't have that advice yet. So, to say right now, I have to vote against it without having that advice... Whenever I have that advice, I inform the Chamber about it and then I always tell you what I'm going to do. The SCOPAFF meeting, just for your sake, is on 20 and 21 October. That's always when we discuss it first. Before then, I'll inform your room about what the Ctgb recommends. So I'm deceiving this motion now, because it's way ahead of everything that's yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u33	This motion is about the fact that it is wrongly on the agenda of the ScoPAFF. That should not be on the agenda, because we do not know if it has hormone-distorting effects. EU legislation therefore does not allow it to be proposed. So my question to the Minister is whether she wants to make an effort to ensure that it does not even end up on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u34	I am not dealing with the SCOPAFF agenda, that is what the European Commission is dealing with. There is now an application for the renewal of that product. The Commission has considered putting this on the agenda. We simply have a proper procedure here that we have been following for years. I'd say let's just follow it this time. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u36	First, I will make the motions and then I will come to Mr Van Campen's questions. Mrs Koekkoek's motion on item No. 1348 goes wider than just the agricultural part. I just checked with her. This motion actually calls for an EU portal for all the legislative proposals, regulations and such things that are on Europe's agenda. That's a bit beyond my competence, isn't it? Although I am very happy that Mrs Koekkoek thinks that I can make all these decisions on this kind of thing. I would like to ask her if she would be willing to table this motion in an EU debate. I get her question, it's quite complex to keep the overview, but it really goes a little further than what I'm talking about. So I'd like to ask if she's taking this motion... I don't know how to do that technically and how to do it best. Do you have to hold the motion and then file it somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u37	Yeah, that'd be an alternative. Mrs Koekkoek, are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u38	Yes, Mr President, certainly, because we were also wondering when the best time would be to request this. Let me explain the context why we did that now. That is because, within the framework of the common agricultural policy, we see the most overlap between certain steps you want to take and the impact it has on people, on farmers here. That is why this motion is already before us. But I also understand very well that we are dealing with different departments and competences, so we can also keep it up and submit it to the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u39	My advice would then be to do so in a debate on Europe of Foreign Affairs, because that is what it is about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u40	Strictly speaking, you've already filed the motion. So you'd have to move it in now and we wouldn't have heard about this for a while and then you'd submit it again. That is the most formal and right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u41	I hereby formally withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u42	And then we'll see him again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u43	And then we'll see him again, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u44	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u45	Then there is Mrs van der Plas' motion on item No. 1349 not to impose higher production requirements on Dutch food products. We do not impose higher production requirements on Sec. I think that Mrs Van der Plas means ways in which production demands are made, not so much production requirements as production requirements in terms of how production should take place, but more the conditions under which that happens. I'm just gonna interpret it that way. I am interpreting a little, so I hope Mrs van der Plas means this too, namely that our conditionality should not be different from anywhere else. I have already indicated in the debate that we remain as close to the baseline of conditionality as possible and that we always have a... It is not for nothing a national strategic plan, with its own choices that suit the national circumstances and the challenges that we have at national level. It's different from country to country. This is filled in in other countries in other ways, except the conditionality baseline; you just have to do it. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u46	It is indeed a question of production requirements. We are, of course, also concerned with national headlines being put on top of European legislation. We are just very concerned about all the super-statutory regulations. That is, of course, not only on top of European legislation, because there are also national headlines. However, you cannot do much about that at the moment, but also provincial requirements are imposed. For us, the level playing field counts. So we really want our farmers to have to comply with whatever happens in the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yes, but we have conditionality. But I have said before that the Netherlands naturally has specific tasks, for example with regard to water quality. Then you try to ensure that the CAP is as closely as possible in line with what we need to do, for example, in the Seventh Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive in order to ensure that we reach the Water Framework Directive by 2027. So I do not just have to look at the CAP for a sec. In the context of all the national challenges we have, I would also like to make sure that we have a good connection. That is why the Netherlands gives its own interpretation, which is really close to the baseline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u48	The motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u50	Then there was one more question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u51	No, I also have the motion in part No. 1350 by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u52	Another second. That's right. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u53	Here I'm also looking a little bit if this is about Fit for 55. I think so. The discussion on Fit for 55 has yet to begin. We haven't even started that yet. So we don't know exactly what the distribution looks like either. That is part of the whole debate that is going to take place, including between the sectors. So it's a little complicated to make an impact analysis of that already, because I don't even know what the outcome of that discussion is going to be. In that sense, therefore, I find this motion a little early and should therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u54	It says "as soon as possible." It doesn't say it has to be now. "As soon as possible" can also be after the discussion. However, I would like to amend the text so that it becomes a little clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u55	For the record, this discussion could take a long time. It won't be completed next week. I think we've been working on it for a year anyway. Now I may say something very strange, but this is quite a discussion. So I do not know at all what the objective is going to be. If I now have to do an impact analysis on an objective which I do not know and which can be delayed, I would advise Mrs van der Plas to make this point when there is more clarity about it. It's not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'm going to have a word with Mr. Bishop. I'm just keeping the motion as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u57	Then the motion will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u59	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u60	Then I have a question from Mr Van Campen about a motion which was adopted yesterday and which I had already advised against. From my point of view, I am saying that because I have to take this out of my mind for a moment, and I think that this motion calls for the phasing out of the use of pesticides. It is quite unclear to me what is covered. We always distinguish between high risk and low risk means. You're really gonna need low-risk resources. This includes biological resources. It is simply about the impact of these substances on humans, animals and the environment. We always check it out. I have already indicated that we have an implementation programme for plant protection products, which is precisely the objective of reducing emissions to soil, water and air of all means in terms of the real high-risk means. There are objectives in this too, and that is what we are used to working for. I or my successor, whoever, will soon inform you about the situation. But this motion is so general that it is not at all clear which means should be included. That is a point of attention; let me put it this way. While we're at this stage, I think this is just something... Let me put it this way: I am not going to continue with this now, but this will undoubtedly be a point that comes back to a formation or something like that. But for the record, there is already an implementation programme for plant protection products. That's what we're already taking steps with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u61	This raises a question for Mrs Vestering, the author of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u62	To be honest, I am not surprised that the Minister is not going to work on it, also in view of the letter we received yesterday from the Minister. She is still too busy negotiating and therefore has little time for the Chamber in her work. I assume that a successor will work on this, because it is really an express wish of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u63	I think that first point is a personal fact. The Chamber always gets letters, answers to parliamentary questions and all that kind of stuff. I have asked to take some account of the fact that sometimes I have to puzzle some agendas. That's all it is. I'm just a minister and you just get all the pieces. I can only see that this motion calls for something on which there is a greater debate. Given the state of the missionary cabinet, I can now state that it is up to another cabinet to decide how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mrs. Vestering, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u65	I really think this is an insult to the Chamber and to the office of Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u66	Well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u67	No, I really want to make a point here. We had a committee debate on Nature this afternoon. That was cancelled by the forthcoming coalition parties. They're forming now. So this is not a priority, when we have a nitrogen crisis, a natural crisis and a biodiversity crisis and a lot of farmers are in uncertainty. I think that as a minister, you really need time for that and if you don't have that time, you need a successor or you need someone else to do the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u68	The Minister responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u69	I think it is in all our interests that there should be a missionary cabinet that can carry out motions again, because it is clear that a deportationary cabinet does not do that. It is nice to be reassured by the Minister in the sense that the motion that is now before us, and this is what I am saying, brings so much unrest to farmers, at least it does not need to be read as sharply as it is presented. That's what Mrs. Vestering said. How that motion should be interpreted is up to another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this... Oh, there's one short question. Mrs. Van der Plas, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u71	Yes. We have seen that the Party's motion for the Animals has won a majority. I would like to ask the Minister if she could just explain it. Suppose that motion is really being carried out completely and pesticides are being phased out completely, what is that going to mean for food production? Can the Minister simply explain to citizens what that will ultimately mean for our food production? What kind of risks are there going to be? 'Cause this is just gonna get to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'm just looking at the minister, also in view of the clock, the time. I am not entirely committed to the current state of affairs, but is it an idea that the Minister should give a written response to the motion if it has not already been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u73	I responded to that motion last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u74	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u75	I gave an appreciation on that motion, and I also indicated why I dissuaded that motion. That sounds pretty clear to me. The Chamber adopted that motion and I have just indicated that we are already working on phasing out high-risk means. So we're already working on that part of the motion. The more general part is really to a next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u76	Clear. Mrs van der Plas, I think we should follow the Minister in this regard. I understand your question, but I do not think that this two-minute debate is suitable for a very big debate on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u77	Well, Mr. Chairman, this is going to have serious consequences. We can look at the clock and say it's all gonna take time. I do not have to debate this until 8 p.m. tonight, but I think the answer can just be one sentence. The minister may say she's already given an appreciation, but that was Tuesday or... When was it? I've lost the thread of days. But you can do it here, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'm just gonna take a quick look at the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u79	...the answer is quite simple, I think. You don't have to be very technical about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u80	But the Minister is about the answer. I shall now give her the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u81	I have just indicated that this motion is rather multi-interpretable and therefore I cannot fully see what that means. I can tell you what we're doing. We are already working on the implementation programme for plant protection products. That's really about the high-risk means. In doing so, we always say that you have to make sure that you have other methods to protect the crops from teasing and bullying; that sort of thing, so to speak. And that's what we're working on. So it's also in the alternatives. But if you take everything away at once, it will have consequences for food production.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u82	You'll have to deal with that for a while, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-4.u83	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, and to suspend for a few moments.
