ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Code of Criminal Law to limit the possibility of imposing community service in the event of violence against persons with a public service, Public Service Ban Act, Section 35528. I would like to welcome the spokesmen, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection. I assume you guys got something on our procedure. Today we are trying to complete the first term as much as possible, at least the first term of the Chamber and if it succeeds from your side, but if it doesn't work, we will do the rest of the law tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u2	I shall now give the floor to Mr van den Berge from GroenLinks. He has spoken for 15 minutes, but I am sure he will need much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u3	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. I begin my speech today by expressing my disgust at the riots in the last few days. I think we all watched with anger and sorrow how vandals destroyed our towns and villages and how they attacked enforcers, journalists and aid workers. Let me be very clear: everyone in the Netherlands has the right to demonstrate I will always defend that, but nobody has the right to molest. Keep a banner up or scan a slogan, but leave hospitals, test streets and shops alone; and you don't care about enforcers, journalists and aid workers. I have a question for the Minister of Justice and Security. Could he explain what he is currently doing with police, mayors and security regions to ensure that peace can return in the next few days and what measures are being taken at this time to protect enforcers, journalists and aid workers? Mr. Chairman. Too often, in the course of their work, enforcers and aid workers are dealt with by swearing, intimidation and abuse. We're never gonna get to think that's normal. It is these maintainers, aid workers and journalists who take care of our safety, our well-being, our health and news. They take a step forward when most of us take a step back. They deserve our protection. GroenLinks has great appreciation for them, for these heroes. Unfortunately, the corona crisis has not made their work easier, not better. Anticoronarel scoundrels spit on cops. The intimidation and violence that we have seen in recent days have been unthinkable until recently. GroenLinks therefore believes that we must make every effort to tackle violence against enforcers and aid workers, first and foremost with preventive measures aimed at prevention. I am thinking in this context, for example, of the ban on fireworks, which has worked. My group is also prepared to look at unorthodox measures. For example, we look with interest at the use of bodycams. They seem to have a frightening effect and to increase the chance of getting caught by the unsubs. That is important, because we know from research that the chance of getting caught usually has a greater impact on preventing crime than the measure of punishment or the type of punishment. In this context, I would also like to point out that I am making a declaration. We see that threats, intimidation and violence are far from always reported. In fact, employers such as the fire department, the police, the health care providers and the public transport companies should always encourage and facilitate the making of a declaration. This way, we can increase the chances of getting caught and prevent violence from going unpunished. I have a number of questions for both ministers. First of all, can the Ministers indicate the impact of the ban on fireworks on reducing incidents of violence during the turn of the year? Secondly, can the ministers indicate the effects of the use of bodycams so far? Thirdly, what other preventive measures can we take to reduce violence against enforcers and aid workers? Fourthly, how can we ensure that reporting becomes the norm? What role can government and other employers play in this? Fifthly, and finally, on this point, what measures can we take to further increase the chances of the perpetrators being caught? Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going to the bill before you. You and colleagues know where GroenLinks stands when it comes to minimum penalties. That's not what we're here for, and you know why. We have confidence in the role of the judge who, circumstances of the perpetrator and of the victims, various criminal targets, I shall come back to this later, and bearing in mind the importance of society, must have room for appropriate punishment. That's what judges do every day: punishing, whether or not in combination with treatment for, for example, mental illness to prevent repetition. When you hear this, you could say: well, that's simple; GroenLinks will not support this bill. I'll get to that later. I don't want to get rid of myself that easily because I think this is such an important subject. I have therefore studied and weighed the legislative proposal very carefully in its preparation for this debate. I always do that, especially in the case of legislative proposals, but I've done it extra well. I put a shovel on that. I have looked at the opinions of judges and prosecutors, I have spoken to a former judge myself, and I have looked at how the public service ban that is already in place for violence and sex crimes is working in practice. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the following. Punishments serve different purposes in our democratic rule of law: retaliation, deterring, preventing repetition and protecting society. I will now put the legislative proposal before us along the measuring line of these four criminal targets, first of all the retaliation. Does a community service ban make for more effective retaliation? That's just the question. Increasing the chance of getting caught seems like a better route for this. The former judge I spoke to also told me that in the past she had had suspects in front of her who felt it was worse and more embarrassing to have a community service than a prison sentence. In such a case, community service can therefore serve the purpose of retaliation more effectively than a prison sentence. But if we adopt this bill, we will deprive the judge of the opportunity to impose community service when it serves the purpose of retaliation better. Mr. Chairman. Then scare off, the second sentence after retribution. Here too, increasing the chances of capture and prosecution are likely to have a greater deterrent effect than the type of punishment. I find it difficult to imagine that anyone who manages to attack a maintainer, aid worker or journalist in advance has made a calculated assessment of what type of punishment he or she could be imposed. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the third sentence: preventing repetition. This is perhaps the most important issue for my group when we look at this bill. Of course, we do not want perpetrators of violence to commit violence twice or third time, but does a prison sentence help? We know that a lot of unsubs suffer from mental illness or confused behavior. The report Violence against police officers shows that in 2019 this was true for no less than 790 of the perpetrators. These are people who need help and treatment in addition to punishment. It's an illusion to think that prison is some kind of magical car wash you go bad at and come out okay. In fact, for many people suffering from mental disorders, the opposite is true, because they cannot always receive proper treatment within the prison walls. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the final penalty: to protect society. Is it helpful to society if we put people behind bars who need help and treatment? I'm afraid not. I told you before: adequate treatment is too often lacking in prisons. It is not for nothing that judges are often struggling with the existing public service ban on acts of violence and violence. Even if they know that these are persons with mental illness or those who are themselves traumatized and therefore actually need good psychiatric help that is not available in prison, they should still send such a person to prison. So even if they know that society and the perpetrator are better served with community service, whether or not they are in combination with treatment or partial imprisonment, they cannot impose community service. Mr. Chairman. If the bill we are discussing today is adopted, it will also apply in the future to perpetrators of violence against enforcers and aid workers. Not only the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asks these critical questions and cracks these critical notes in the legislative proposal. We also read these questions and critical notes in the opinions of the Council of State, the Council of Justice, the Dutch Order of Lawyers, the Dutch Association of judges and prosecutors and probation organizations; not the least, you would say. They all ask questions about the effectiveness of this bill and point out that it restricts the court's space to deliver customization. I have another question for the Minister for Legal Affairs. Has he considered including a hardness clause in the bill, making it possible for serious reasons, such as the need for psychiatric treatment outside the prison walls, to make an exception to the public service ban? If so, why is such a hardness clause not now included in the bill? Mr President, in short, my group is critical of this bill. We have a lot of questions. GroenLinks wants to do everything in its power to tackle violence against enforcers and aid workers, but in an effective way that serves victims and society. For us, in the end, the criterion is: what works in practice? How do we protect enforcers and aid workers and how do we make our society safer? I understand the anger, indignation and sincere commitment that this bill comes from. I do not doubt for a moment the intentions of the cabinet members in trade union K and the MPs on whose initiative this bill has been drafted, but I am afraid it may turn out counter-productive in practice. The supplement scandal has taught us how disastrously well-intentioned legislation can work out if a hardness clause is missing; if customisation cannot be delivered. A judge who weighs everything and then makes the best possible decision is, of course, the ultimate example of customization. Because when we talk about customization, we're actually talking about human work. Such a hardness clause and that space for human customization, we still have in the current legislation. Now, as it were, the judge can punish for violence against servants of the public cause. They often do. But we don't have to change the law for that. They now have the opportunity to impose community service, whether in conjunction with treatment or partial imprisonment, if this is in the interests of preventing repetition or in the interests of society's security. With this bill, we're removing that space for human customization. Finally, Mr President. It is only when parts of society become overheated that we have to keep our heads down. Then we have to make laws that work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. A brief question, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u5	I understand the message, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u6	Very subtle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u7	Very subtle. With respect for his position on how to deal with this criminal matter, I would like to ask Mr Van den Berge the following question. He all mentions goals that you can serve with criminal law. I have spent nineteen years in this area myself, and I have noticed that these theoretical concepts are quite difficult to apply in practice, as we say about the fence: well, we are now dealing with special prevention and that sort of thing. Have you ever talked to police officers about their perception of what we are actually aiming at with this bill? I have wrestled with all those numbers myself, but I have reached one sentence. I will not ask my second question, but just mention this sentence. The government says: we also note in the direction of these Members that the legislative proposal finds its basis in the need to make the widespread shared feelings about the severity of violence against persons with a public role also reflected in the legislation. I think this fits in with the feelings of policemen who are allowed to go again tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u8	Two things. First of all, about these criminal targets. Mr Van Dam is right that this is sometimes a rather technical and theoretical exercise. That is why I deliberately tried, from the perspective of GroenLinks and on the basis of my preparation for this debate, to explain the legislative proposal along those objectives and how we feel it meets those objectives. Then there is the answer to the second question. I've certainly spoken to police officers, and I've spoken to police officers who point to the risks of this bill. I've also spoken to police officers who do think this bill is a good idea. I have also read the official views of the police union, for example. So I know they want this bill. In any case, what I wanted to say in my speech is that we stand side by side with them. We want to focus on preventing this violence and we want to address it, but if we consider the various criminal targets and interests in this bill, we find that this is not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u9	Thank you. You were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u10	I'm done. I thought maybe there'd be more questions. But I don't think I should provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u11	No, and don't look so inviting, from who's gonna ask me a question? Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally! Since 2010, the PVV has been legally excluding the possibility of community service in the event of violence against police officers, firefighters and ambulance workers. Officials with a public task are increasingly confronted with aggression and violence. When I tabled my last motion on this matter, the most striking example was the case of that police officer of an ME unit, who was kicked to the ground by a demonstration against his head. In the meantime we know better, between quotes: look at the riots, which you shouldn't call riots anymore, and at what is happening there. Luckily, thanks to my group chairman, this will also be the subject of a debate tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Back to that example. If that policeman hadn't worn a helmet back then, the outcome would have been very different. But that doesn't make the blame to the perpetrator any less. It was just an attempted manslaughter. And what was the punishment? Yeah, it's a community service. Because it was possible. There was no serious violation of the officer's physical integrity imposed by a judge who was safely in a courtroom and did not have to do his job in a fighting mob. Mr. Chairman. If that were not to the point, then the years of hollow texts by Prime Minister Rutte and previous Ministers of Justice and Security were. "Hands off of aid workers!" However, these texts were never followed by action. Countless motions have been tabled by the PVV to put an end to this, because our aid workers deserve it. And fortunately, following my last motion in this case, Minister Dekker promised a legislative proposal with priority at the end of 2017. Happily, this is being discussed in plenary today, and it will not surprise anyone that the PVV is wholeheartedly in favour of this bill. Mr. Chairman. The aim of the legislative proposal is to extend the current public service ban on violence and sexual crimes to all forms of violence against police officers, fire brigades, paramedics, special investigators, boas and other persons with a public role in the enforcement of law and order or security. Fortunately, the bill also brings criminal attempts to commit violence against this circle of persons under the banning of community service. This means that there can be no more community service for situations where violence has been committed against police officers and other aid workers, while there has been no or less serious injury. Mr. Chairman. In this context and following this line of reasoning, my group does regret the fact that public violence - that is Article 141 of the Criminal Code - is not currently covered by the public service ban. As far as my group is concerned, it will be brought under the legislative proposal. I refer to the judgment of the Supreme Court in the Anja Joos judgment. That judgment shows that if a suspect continues to be part of a group and the victim is visibly abused by someone from that group for everyone, without the suspect having distanced himself from that event at any time, the Supreme Court says "there is a sufficiently significant contribution to open violence'. Mr. Chairman. If that is not enough for the minister, then I would also like to point out another study which shows that individuals feel stronger in a group and also more uninhibited and that individuals feel more untouchable in a group because of the anonymity of the group. Only the fact that it is not possible to prove whether an individual member of the group has committed the violence and to what extent, in our view, should not lead to the escape of a prison sentence, because the intention of this individual cannot be interpreted differently than the conscious acceptance of the significant likelihood of violence being committed. You could even say on the basis of that investigation that whoever increased that risk by continuing to be part of the group. For my group, therefore, these are sufficient grounds for excluding community service for public violence. Mr. Chairman. In addition, Article 45 of the Code of Criminal Law defines an attempt as follows: "An attempt to commit a criminal offence is punishable when the unsub's intention has been revealed by a start of execution." Then my question to the Minister is whether he can explain the decisive difference he sees in the intention and willful and knowing to continue to be part of a group with such a risk acceptance. I hope that what I have just said will prompt the Minister to bring Article 141, the open violence, under the bill. Otherwise, I have an amendment to that effect, which has already been tabled. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the chance that a public service ban will be bypassed by the judge. My group does not want perpetrators of violence against aid workers to get off the ground by using the law creatively. It has already been shown that, in certain cases, judges are going to impose one or a few days' imprisonment, whether or not combined with community service. If the perpetrator, then suspect, has been held in custody, it will be deducted so that, under the line, there will be no substitute punishment. I have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that, when a conviction for violence against aid workers has been pronounced, there is a real prison sentence. In that context, I also had a question about Article 9a of the Code of Criminal Law. That gives the judge the opportunity not to impose punishment on the conviction. Of course, I find that very strange, because why is this possibility not excluded in the legislative proposal? The aim is to put them in prison. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. I have tabled a third amendment to that effect. So that's what I'm announcing here, too. I don't have to announce that, because that's already been filed, I just said. So we have three amendments. My group will leave it at that as far as the amendments are concerned. A small point of criticism. The circle of people with a public task has been described very broadly as far as my group is concerned. It also includes traffic controllers and youth workers, and even judges. Violence is always reprehensible, but I do not think they can be equated with, as I always call them, the "three great life savers": the police, the ambulance and the fire department. Because they are literally in the front line and they cannot stand down. They often have to do with life-threatening situations, for themselves or for victims. But, as I said, violence against anyone is always unacceptable. From this point of view, of course, we also support the broad scope. However, I would like to make a comment about the judges, because the fact that they have regularly imposed bare community service in the situation of violence against an aid worker was precisely the reason for my group to table a motion every time. This ultimately resulted in this bill. I am therefore very curious to see how they are going to apply this, because, in the case of justice, the Council has strongly advised against the legislative proposal. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, my group will certainly support the legislative proposal. I also hope that it will enter into force as soon as possible. Every day that is lost is one too many, as far as I am concerned, especially in view of the current social situation. As I said, not only does the current social situation require this, but also the fact that agents themselves are increasingly victims of serious violence makes them worthy of our support. (NL) Mr President, all in all. As long as the 209 outstanding PTSS files have not been completed to the satisfaction of the victims, I am going to make a habit of concluding the debate with Minister Grapperhaus every time with this text: furthermore, the PVV believes that long-term PTSS files should be completed as quickly as possible, to the satisfaction of the victims and fully in accordance with the motion for a resolution adopted unanimously, i.e. without any or all of the offset with the allocated pain money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u13	Thank you, Mrs Helder. Good. In eight minutes, even. I think that's very good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't touch our paramedics. Those who engage in violence against persons with a public service mission are usually not good at their head. In any case, such an unsub lacks all decency. In any case, such an act cannot remain without consequences, because people who serve the public cause work for all of us, for example as police officers. They deserve our protection. We must do this in all kinds of ways, by ensuring respect and appreciation, including financial, sufficient colleagues and not too high a workload, but also good training, good equipment and protection. If they are attacked by no-standard fools, which unfortunately happens too often, then these perpetrators must be punished. Quickly, lick by piece, a great opportunity: all this is important and there is still a lot of profit to be gained. Why does it often take so long for perpetrators to be caught and tried? I really understand how difficult it is sometimes to prove who did exactly what, but sometimes it's obvious and it's not complicated. Even so, it can sometimes take a very long time, with the result that a lower sentence is imposed because of too long a time span. That's indigestible, especially for an agent in question, for example. If there's a sentence of a few days in custody, while the officer's been injured, sitting at home sick for months and getting PTSD, then I understand and feel that misunderstanding. For me today, it does not have to be a competition about who is the most against violence against people with a public task, about whom it is most detestable. We are all appalled by this; let us be clear about it. Let us not pretend that people who are critical of the legislative proposal before us think otherwise. What we are discussing today is a very limited legislative proposal. It does not arrange extra colleagues for people in the public sector to ensure more security or more protection and appreciation of our people on the front line. It doesn't set up any extra agents to increase the chances of a violent attacker getting caught. It doesn't rule that cases are brought to justice faster. No, it only regulates that judges should be banned from imposing community service in cases like this in future. The Minister's reasoning is that violence against persons in the exercise of their public service is too serious to be done with community service alone. But I do not think that should be the relevant balancing framework, because what does this reasoning say about, for example, violence against Ihbtis? So is community service okay? Or how about fraud involving millions of euros, serious animal abuse, bribery and threatening politicians? I mean, what is the criterion? If you say that something is too serious, it does not mean that you have to restrict judges in advance and make it impossible to customize them. Why don't I think this is such a happy proposal? First of all, the problem for which this law is written is unclear. In most of the cases that the Minister envisages under this law, it is already responding with unconditional custodial sentences, as I read in the documents. What exactly does the Minister think is the urgent problem that he wants to solve with this? And what exactly will it solve? The displeasure about some of the punishments that I sometimes do partake, you don't take away this bill at all. In my opinion, the definition of the professions covered by this law is always problematic. There can be no community service in the event of violence against a police officer, a fireman, an ambulance worker or a boa. But why is this true for someone in the ambulance but not for someone in the care? Think about violence against journalists, too. Are community service reasonable, then? And what about prison staff? Again, I don't think you'll ever get out of this. I do not believe that this proposal will have a deterrent effect either. GroenLinks' colleague said the same thing. It is always about impulse bombers, for example someone with a blur in his eyes. You're not gonna get laid by a paramedic. Everyone knows that, but it still happens. Therefore, this proposal will not help to reduce violence against aid workers in order to prevent it. Then we know that a prison sentence usually doesn't make people any better. The recidivism is higher than after community service. The proposal does not, therefore, lead to less repeated crime. Moreover, prison is a very expensive punishment for society. Remember, community service is also a full sentence. It just depends. It is not always a few hours of hogwashing; it can be a serious service at 240 hours, which is of benefit to society and sometimes the condemned learns something from it, such as day rhythm or skills. For some people, community service is much worse and much heavier than sitting for a few days. So prison is not necessarily a harder punishment, if that is the purpose of some of us here. The most important thing is this. Punishment is bespoke. This removes the instruments that can be effective in certain circumstances, whether or not combined with each other. The note following the report sets out the example of emotional family members pushing aid workers. That's not allowed and it's really bad; hands off of aid workers. But what does the Minister answer if there is psychological force majeure, if there is a push and there is no injury? "I also think customization is important, but also in the case of such violence, prison time is the starting point for the assessment." Then I wonder: does the Minister really mean that? If so, can he explain that? I also do not understand the consequences of this proposal. To impose community service should no longer be allowed in certain cases, not even in combination with a strong suspended sentence. But it's okay to have a suspended sentence without community service. I find that a strange outcome, a strange thought. Can the Minister explain it to me? What does this actually say about how the Minister looks at community service? Let us punish violence against aid workers always and immediately. So we have to increase the chance of getting caught. What does the Minister do about it? How will the police's information position be improved in such a way that we are better aware of the rioters and the instigators so that they can be convicted? What is being done to ensure that penalties can be punished quickly? What's taking you so long? What else can be done to speed things up? Let's also make sure that polyplars get mandatory behavioral treatment to their disorder. May I also have a response from the Minister? I am very concerned about the development that cops and, for example, the people working undercover are exposed and threatened, sometimes even at home. That is very frightening and there is a task for us to give agents the protection they need. Can the Minister respond to this? Is this always reported, including by the employer? Emergency workers should be given more support in processing traumatic experiences, in all possible ways. Work on the victim's recovery. Sometimes the unsub can or should play a role in that too. Make sure the damages are settled. Let the unsubs work for that. May I suggest a response from the Minister to all these? I believe that people in front of us deserve measures that really work. Today's proposal is, I regret to say, not a good step in that direction in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u16	Thank you very much. The pace is good. We'll see if we can hold on to that. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I'd like to say three things to the rioters. First of all... I don't think you guys are tough at all. In your ugly black hoody's a bit of a raid on the Jumbo. Second. Think about the entrepreneurs and the children who are sleeping in the streets you're going through. I'd say, let's not fight each other, but fight the virus. Go chill with your friends instead of rioting and stay home. Mr. Chairman. The unprecedented violence against the police is at the heart of this debate. Stand next to the police and condemn the violence: we all do. But do we think that this violence can be eliminated with just community service? This is often the case, as the figures show. In the years 2015-2019, 102, 124, 116, 114 and 100 bare community sentences were imposed for abuse of persons with a public service mission, respectively. That's 556 community service for assaulting people with a public service. In 27 cases, this was an attempt at aggravated assault. Don't you think it's more than a community service that you're the creator of this suffering? Anyone who attacks aid workers such as doctors, agents or paramedics has clearly overheated. Cooling in isolation is then a probate. The suffering of victims must also be compensated. That is why, in addition to community service, prison sentences are used as an instrument. The experience of a prison regime makes an impression that we don't want to deny the unsub. The call from society to tackle perpetrators of violence harder now sounds long and clear enough. In an election debate on 17 February 2019, Senator Annelien Bredenoord of D66, leader of the political group in the First Chamber, also stated that she and the doctors, nurses and other people in the emergency room are experiencing more and more violence and that she is therefore also in favour of a prison sentence in the event of violence against aid workers. "I find that so indecent and unacceptable that I think that this includes a prison sentence," said Mrs Bredenoord during an election debate at WNL On Sunday. Better and more convincing, I can't really say. I hope that the immeasurable and inscrutable wisdom from the First Chamber has blown over from the other side of the Binnenhof and has now reached our former coalition friends of D66 in the Lower House and that the appeal from the care sector through this senator has convinced the group to vote for this law. You're not gonna leave care in the cold, are you? We need to put anyone who dares to attack care in a cell. Hang a poster with a picture of a prison cell and the text "if you use force against us, this is your next destination." Doing something with a call from society is not right or left, it is democratic. As part of the call that sounds from society, I like to quote professor and member of the College of Attorney General Rinus Otte: "Judges are next, just like the law itself. In Greek tragedies you always have a choir that reflects on what happens on stage. The choir is the barometer of what the audience thinks. As a judge, if you consider the victims, the next of kin and the public in general as choir, you have to listen to the choir, but at the same time realize that you cannot change the law and the policy at that time. But if the choir keeps shouting, you will see that justice adapts." You will not be surprised that the VVD can wholeheartedly support the amendment of the law proposed by the government today. I do have a general comment and two amendments. First of all, the general remark. I think that legislation should excel in simplicity. Many subjects are not complicated at all, but are complicated here. This also partly applies to this law. The VVD says that anyone working or reporting on the security front line has an essential public task. We find violence against these people so unacceptable that it must always be punished at least by prison. So anyone who's a security guard, public or private, and anyone who's a journalist, should be covered by this law. The cabinet makes it complicated and says: no, it has to be someone in public service. So violence against the security guard of the Lower House must always be punished with a prison sentence, but not against his fellow security guard on the other side of the Second Chamber building at the SPAR supermarket. Well, then, community service is enough. Perhaps Minister Grapperhaus would also like to explain this to the security guards of the Jumbo who has just been looted or to the security guards here in the city centre of The Hague at the supermarkets, because security guards at supermarkets constantly maintain the public rules, such as 1.5 meters and wearing a mouth cap, or do age control in alcohol sales. If a permit requires security, such as an event, private security guards will be covered by this law again. So one security guard is subject to the public service ban and the other one is not, but that also depends on where he works. Under the principle of criminal legality, a penalty must be provided for. We can't expect people to go through permit conditions. The security guard at the reception of the hospital and the guard at the supermarket, as far as the VVD is concerned, should all be covered by this law. Our amendment therefore makes the law more respectful, inclusive and equitable not only to all nearly 30,000 private security officers, but also simpler and easier to understand. The strange crooked reasoning of the cabinet that private security officers can take a step back and not cops is clearly written from behind a desk. Theoretically, it's true, but in practice it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u17	Mr Van Nispen and then Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u18	I get it. I didn't expect the VVD to be there when the chickens are around to embrace the government's proposal and indeed try to stretch it a little further. We probably won't agree on that. We have a very different input on this point. But I do wonder where the VVD was when there were proposals from the Chamber to increase the chances of taking care of more colleagues for all those agents and to relieve the workload of all those people who are now in the front line for all of us. Where was the VVD when it came to the fact that these agents are entitled to a decent collective agreement, which they are currently fighting for? In other words, limiting the possibility for a judge to impose a task force is very small and it is so much more. It's about appreciation and respect for those people on the front line. Do we also find the VVD on our side when it comes to such proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u19	It is true that it is about appreciation and respect for those people on the front line. If you talk to people on the front line, they are not only people in public service, but also private security officers... who do difficult work and hear the stories about what they are going through... sometimes back home with a brick chased and attacked..... we say: when you talk about respect for people on the front line, it is true that when they are convicted of such a thing, they always get a prison sentence. I think that's a sign of respect for people on the front line. And we're all always in favour of increasing the odds of getting caught. This cabinet has only invested extra in security. So in response to your question where the VVD was, I say: there has been investment in security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u20	Of course, the VVD's been undressing the police for ten years. At all times the VVD is not appreciating the police and she is not paying respect to the agents. But let me refrain from interrupting this, Mr President, also for the sake of time. I am concerned about how the VVD sees community service as punishment. It seems that the VVD says: community service is for everything and yet not a suitable punishment. But let me give you an example. In 2014, a member of the VVD Chamber was drunk at the wheel. The then VVD group chairman said: well, this person has now been severely punished, because he has had community service. How am I supposed to explain that? If the VVD is convenient and it is one of our colleagues, community service is a severe punishment. For drunken driving, a community service can be done. But when it comes to other types of offences, and when it comes to the other, the VVD wants to make the judge's customization impossible. I don't think they're entirely appropriate either. Perhaps Mr Van Wijngaarden can explain that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u21	Mr Van Nispen mentions a lot of points at once. I am not going to give the text and commentary on this or that person who has received community service. But Mr Van Nispen also asked: how does the VVD value community service? I think community service is an incredibly valuable tool, especially for young people, for example. I also have good contact with Halt and I like to visit. I intend to participate myself once again, as soon as that can be a bit of a coronaproof. I prefer to do that with a little better weather, I say right away. So if you're asking how the VVD looks at community service, I'm saying all respect for community service. But we are talking here about how we deal with people in the front line. That's what's in store here. In the explanatory memorandum, the cabinet itself uses the term "frontline" several times. Who's in the front line? Not only public-service security guards, but also security guards at a supermarket that are constantly enforcing corona rules and are in grave danger of doing so. So the VVD says: let's include them under the scope of this bill, just like the journalists and reporters, do that report. Of course, that's what we saw last weekend. So that's what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u22	I waited a while, because I was still shaking after Mr Van Wijngaarden's exhortations towards the rioters. After that swing, those people will change their minds three times before they go out on the street tonight. But I have a serious point, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden makes it very easy. He says: it must simply be clear that community service cannot be done if there is violence against people with a public function. Now Mr Van Wijngaarden himself has recently been on a committee on child allowances. That's where we've seen a lot of witnesses being heard. They all actually came with the same message. It was said: because there was right to worry about fraud, the Chamber then made legislation in which there was so little room for manoeuvre that you got all kinds of nasty cases at the bottom of the line. This was due to a lack of opportunities to deliver customization. How does Mr Van Wijngaarden, with his own experience from that committee, look at this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u23	The cabinet has, of course, responded extensively to this. This includes the proposal for an introduction test. We have not been able to discuss this, but I would certainly do the same with this bill. And I believe that Mr Van Nispen also indicated that the scope of this bill is rather limited and quite clear. We shouldn't do so much about that. I just think it could be a little more straightforward by making it easier. We can make it easier by not telling people that this bill will only apply if they have first looked at whether the permit conditions show that someone had a public task. I'm thinking, let's make it a little easier. Another lesson from the supplementing affair is, of course, that complexity of regulation is often a harbinger of injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u24	Mr Van Wijngaarden sends a very long wave to the cabinet, while I asked him what he thought. But I can give him that execution test, because both the Council for Justice and the NVvR as well as the Dutch Bar Association and the Council of State say: this is not effective and you limit the tailor-made room for justice, so don't do this now, because it doesn't make sense and it doesn't have any harmful side effects. That execution test was made for you a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u25	Well, when I hear it like that, Mr Grothuizen already has his opinion on this law. I am very sorry to hear that, because as I pointed out, the chairman of the D66 group in the Senate, who works in the care sector, who knows the care from the inside, is clearly better than I can do; I am not working in the care sector, she says: prison is appropriate for what our people in the emergency room are doing, for example. That's the practice. Those people are asking for it. Then do something with it. I find it very disappointing to hear that D66 here in the House of Representatives apparently does not dare to do so and in that sense simply does not care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u26	But Mr Groothuizen is going to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u27	In fact, a new introduction test is not going to take as much weight as existing tests, such as those of the Council of State, are simply put aside. But I have another question. What I am missing in the story of Mr Van Wijngaarden is what we are going to do to prevent violence against aid workers. I mentioned a very concrete proposal in my contribution: the ban on fireworks that we had last year's turn of the year. I wonder how the VVD looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u28	How do I look at a fireworks ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u29	Yes, against a ban on fireworks to prevent violence against aid workers, because we know that fireworks are increasingly used as a weapon against enforcers and aid workers. How's the VVD looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u30	I would simply like to refer to the last debate on fireworks. I just think it is extremely important to remain in constant conversation with people in the front line, including the subject you are discussing. The fireworks are not the subject of this debate, but the point that I think we share is that it is very important that this also affects the supplementing affair, to speak to people who are in the execution. I'm gonna come back to those private security guys at a grocery store. When you speak with that and hear what tasks they have, you think "Oh yes, they are all rules that are imposed from here": that one-and-a-half meters, a mouth cap, not too many people in the store. There was another story on television this morning from someone who was maintaining it, just as we are trying to keep each other sharp here. Well, he did take a beating. Whether it's fireworks or community service after violence, we need to keep in touch with the people on the front line, including journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u31	Finally, Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u32	Then I can serve colleague Van Wijngaarden at his beck and call, because I often have contact with police officers and a deeply cherished wish is a firework ban. Mr Van Wijngaarden says: yes, this debate is not about that. Well, I think we're talking about violence against aid workers, so it's definitely about how you want to prevent that. Look, colleague Van Nispen has just tried it with extra people and stuff, but we know it can't cost money from the VVD. I have here a free measure that has effect. I'm just curious how the VVD looks at that. Then Mr Van Wijngaarden refers to the previous debate, but I am a little confused. Because I've also seen a VVD room member in the media who said: we shouldn't take away all the nice things from people. So I'm curious. How seriously do you take tackling violence against enforcers and aid workers themselves, and are you prepared to support a firework ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u33	Of course, huge restrictions have already been imposed on fireworks in the first instance, and in the second place because of the pandemic. That's what's been done. When it comes to the future, we are going to discuss it with the performers in the future and perhaps with you as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u34	I've been on my own for years, from 2010, with all kinds of PVV moves to legally exclude community service from violence. Well, luckily, violence against people with a public service mission has succeeded. Now the VVD is going to expand that a lot, including with private security. We got an e-mail from the chairman of the security industry. Let that be like former Minister Van der Steur. Actually, I think that's a little humorous. But there are never so many private security guards, because the VVD has cut down on cops. Anyway, my group is against community service in the event of violence. So we can't make it easier? Then I'll give this to the VVD: couldn't you agree to exclude community service if violence has been committed against anyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u35	What I like about this bill is that it says above all that there is always a prison sentence, extra, needed when it comes to those people in the front line. As far as we are concerned, those are security guards, whether they are private or public, a bit of an artificial cut, people with a public function and journalists. That's clearly defined. A community service next to it is still possible, but in any case also a prison sentence. What we differ in is that community service can certainly be very useful. I don't want to fail community service here in any way. Only because of this group of people on the front line, who have to protect or report on security for all of us, so that we know what is happening, and we need an extra protective ring. Mr President, allow me, through you, to congratulate Mrs Helder for her perseverance, because it is true that she has fought tremendously for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u36	Well, that's nice to say to each other, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u37	Mr President, I too am almost at the end of the piece. In the explanatory memorandum, the government also refers to people in the front line twice. Journalists are also in the front line. Journalists work in the frontline in the pursuit of their profession for the public cause. They are essential in a democratic rule of law. Journalists, for example, when reporting riots or demonstrations, do not have the opportunity to bring themselves to safety because of their public task. People who use violence and aggression against them must not get away with mere community service. Anyone who attacks a journalist attacks us all and, as far as the VVD is concerned, has to pay for it in prison. The press has nothing to do with this. The law is now before us and with our amendment the political choice is now before us whether we think that the scum that attacks journalists should get away with community service alone. As far as the VVD is concerned, the answer is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. We have now come to Mr Grothuizen's contribution on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Violence against people with a public role, such as police officers, ambulance workers or firefighters, is obviously unacceptable. It is people who have to take a step forward, even if many others take a step aside. The Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore right to use the principle of the imposition of more severe penalties in criminal proceedings. It is also understandable that judges have included in their assumptions that heavier penalties are imposed. Research shows that's what's happening. The recent events in the Dutch cities show once again that brutal street violence unfortunately also occurs with us. Violence against public aid workers is no exception, not only last weekend and last night but also at old and new, football games or out of control parties. Unfortunately, a small group of fools can't keep their hands at home. For D66, only one reaction is possible: quick intervention, prosecute the perpetrators, where possible with swift justice, and try to recover the damage on them. We have a professional police force and a good criminal justice system in the Netherlands. They can really handle this kind of criminal behavior. Today we are discussing a bill on the criminal side. In short, the bill regulates that violence against people with a public service cannot be punished with community service. At least, it is the government's intention to ban so-called bald community service, which consists only of community service. That proposal is not entirely new. In 2012, the Code of Criminal Law was already amended in order to limit the possibility of imposing such community service in the event of serious sex crimes, violent crimes and repeated crime. New to this proposal is that there will soon be no more solitary community service, to name but a few, in the event of a conviction of abuse, ill-treatment resulting in serious personal injury and premeditated abuse if committed against a person with a public task. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of strong and critical doubts about the effectiveness and impact of this proposal. The government recognizes that itself and writes that the effect on the cell capacity required, I quote, will be negligible. So the government itself does not expect the prisons to become fuller than they already are. This is striking for a bill aimed at making prison the norm. This is partly due to the fact that this type of violence is already being punished more severely in practice. But it's also because prosecutors and judges rightly have an escape. A community service combined with a short prison sentence of one or two days, which in practice is often offset by the period of insurance, is a possibility. The government itself makes an explicit reference to this option. It is not an option that is used very often. Research following the introduction of the first public service ban shows that a combination of community service with one or a few days in prison only accounted for 3.5% of the total sentence imposed. In this sense, therefore, this proposal is a solution to a problem that is hardly existing, a defect which affects more proposals from the PVV, the VVD and the CDA. Although you can call the bill symbolic in that sense, it is symbolic with consequences. The practice is particularly concerned with cases where a public service ban does not do justice to the facts, for example a single push that hurts for a while but does not have any consequences and which has been handed out to a police officer in an emotional rush by someone without a criminal record. Do you have to sit down? I would also like to mention a slight fact of violence committed by someone with serious mental problems or limitations, to whom the fact can be attributed less. Is a prison sentence appropriate? Not as far as I am concerned, but the legislator actually prescribes that with this proposal. That's tricky, because what do you do as a judge, especially if you, as a judge, soon get blamed for sitting in the seat of politics? This is also a reproach that is often made by the PVV and the VVD. Mr President, I see Mrs Helder standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u40	Yeah, me too. Mrs. Helder. You mentioned her a few times, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u41	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I was there before. Actually, I have a short question. Mr Grothuizen referred to numbers. My question to him is: isn't one case of violence against an aid worker too many?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u42	Certainly, but the question before us is not whether violence is always unacceptable and undesirable. The question is how we should respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u43	As far as my group is concerned, Mr Grothuizen has already referred to this as a prison sentence. I'm waiting for his speech, but apparently he doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u44	Mrs. Helder has a predictive gift. Indeed, I am less enthusiastic about this proposal. I also note that the PVV has been advocating a system of minimum penalties for many years. That is something that, of course, is a bit like it, but which fortunately in this Chamber has not yet found any imitation. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. The proposal is also a bit strange in the light of the discussion about customisation and doing justice to the circumstances behind the case. We have been having this discussion since the report on the childcare allowance affair in this Chamber, and that is right, as far as I am concerned, because one of the lessons was: give the judge the room. What are the Ministers' views on this? How does this bill fit in with that class? I'd like a reflection. Mr. Chairman. Apart from these basic questions, I also have a number of more technical issues, for example on forms of participation. Do I understand correctly, as I ask the Minister of Justice, that the use of the word "go" in the legal text also includes forms of participation under criminal law? So are accomplices and co-defendants also covered by the proposed public service ban? If the answer is yes, how does that relate to the government's comment on open violence? For example, in the case of accessory, there may be a less substantial contribution to the fact, whereas that argument was precisely a reason for the government to openly exclude violence as a whole from a public service ban. At least that's what's wrong, right? I would like an explanation from the ministers. Mr. Chairman. Then the people with a public task. Which people are they talking about, exactly? Colleague Van Nispen already asked about this. The ministers are thinking primarily of police officers, ambulance workers and firefighters. It also includes extraordinary investigators, boas. I get that. But even in the case of abuse of other persons who, I quote, perform tasks other than those of their official appointment in public and for the sake of law and order and security, community service should no longer be imposed. The list given by the Ministers raises a number of further questions. I can follow the conductors, but I find it less obvious with drivers in the O.V. Drivers on the bus do indeed have another task in checking tickets and order in the bus, but train drivers do not, I think. For them maintaining that public order and security is not a task. It's not clear to me directly to Defense personnel either. And what about referees at a sports union? These are only a number of professions, but they do indicate that the scope of the proposal raises questions. That's tricky for the practice. So I would like to receive a clarification from the ministers on which groups exactly do and which do not fall within the scope of the law. The government also states that the definition states that it must be a public authority. Then I wonder what that's like at a big concert or another event. The client is not public and the security guards, in my opinion, usually work for a private company, but of course they maintain public order in public space. There too, it is not entirely clear to me whether or not those security guards are covered by the proposal in such a situation. I'd like a response to that, too. I am also referring to Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment, because he is proposing that private security officers should always be placed under a public service ban, but I think that is contrary to the limits proposed by the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. These technical questions, of course, raise a more fundamental question; a question raised by Mr Van Nispen. In fact, this bill creates a special group of victims: people with a public role. But why the group and not other groups? Can the government explain why it is proposing this for people with a public role, but not for victims of anti-Semitism, anti-gay violence or racist violence, for example? Why does the government never consider community service to be an appropriate sanction for one group and can it be an appropriate sanction for another group? I would like an explanation from the Minister of Justice. Mr. Chairman. I also have a more technical question concerning the imposition of a fine. The government says: "Since community service is higher in the legal hierarchy and therefore heavier than a fine, no fine should be imposed." This is generally formulated and therefore seems to apply to the public service ban that we have known since 2012. This derogates from the principles of that prohibition. At that time, the government argued that if the judge finds a prison sentence too heavy, he could combine a suspended custodial sentence with a fine. If this is a new direction, I ask the government. I refer to, I believe, page 16 of the note in response to the report on that legal treatment. If there is indeed a different direction, can the Ministers explain how the Chamber should interpret that derogation in the light of the legal history of that community service ban? Because then we have two different interpretations in the same proposal. Mr President, I will conclude. Violence against people with a public task must be tackled hard, but rather in a way that works and without harming the court's ability to apply customisation in a specific case. It is well known that several colleagues have pointed out that increasing the chance of taking action has more effect on preventing violence than on punishing it. The number of people who get away with it now, because they are not caught immediately or because there is simply no time and people to figure everything out, is really much greater than the number of people who get off with "only" a task force. So invest in that chance of getting caught. And invest in good research. Invest in capacity with the D.A. and in sufficient judges. In short, invest in everything in which the VVD has failed to invest in recent years with the argument against the crisis, while in fact they have done nothing else to contribute to a safer and fairer Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Let's see community service as what it is. A punishment that works well in preventing recidivism. Research shows that people with community service are less likely to make mistakes in relation to those with short prison sentences: 47% less often. According to the probation, the impact of the punishment and the learning effect will be increased if the community service is performed in a place and with work related to the crime. A community service can get people on the right track. Let's not lose sight of that effect. This is important, also in the light of current events. Because would it really be a heavier punishment for the crackpots that were going on in Eindhoven to have to sit for one or two days than to have to shuffle in front of all their fellow townspeople in the local park or help in the hospital? I do know the answer; now the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u45	Mr Groothuizen says that violence against aid workers "should be tackled hard, but..." And then it comes. Has he also discussed this with his group chairman in the Senate in detail in the context of the preparation of this debate? For she has said very clear things about it. I am not going to repeat it all, but it was at least the following: in the emergency room people are being attacked horribly often, there is a big problem in the hospital, I see how intense that is and I think that there is a prison sentence. That was a clear statement. How does Mr Groothuizen value his colleague's statement on the other side of the Binnenhof?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u46	I am disappointed to see that Mr Van Wijngaarden is less interested in my opinion when I leave than in my colleague from the Upper Chamber. But I'm gonna have to do it with that. I'll add this to the list of disappointments I've gained. I haven't been in close contact with them. In any case, I understand that the Minister of Justice supports me in this; that is good to know. The serious answer is that I haven't had any contact with them. I know Mrs Bredenoord's quote. I do not know whether she means that she thinks that those people usually deserve a prison sentence or that they should not be given community service at all. I don't know. I don't really care. Here you are holding the debate with me and I am speaking on behalf of my group. I think you understand very well that I am not getting excited about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u47	And if we are talking about what works, then Mr Groothuizen does not agree with me either that, for example, it could help to put up a poster with: if you use force against us here, then this is your next destination? And then there's a picture of a prison cell. Does Mr Groothuizen not think that this could be a deterrent effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u48	I think it is always good to inform, but I think it is also true, especially in the situations Mr van Wijngaarden calls it, that people are generally angry and high in their emotions, because someone was brought into the emergency room or because they are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Then it is true that posters, exhortations by Mr Van Wijngaarden or a bill on a public service ban do not have very much effect. I've been a district attorney for 12 years and I've never heard people say, "Mr. Groothuizen, I've changed my mind because the VVD has proposed in the Lower House to tighten the sentences. That's really not something that's happening, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u49	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u50	It is a pity to note that Mr Groothuizen has become so cynical at his departure. I hope it doesn't have anything to do with his parliamentary membership. I think there is much more to be done than Mr Groothuizen thinks possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u51	I'm an optimistic man. I am not cynical, although I must say that sometimes I have frowned my eyebrows and still frown when I see what proposals come from your group in particular. I do not think they add anything to making this country better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, my thoughts also went back over the last few days and also today to all those people, men and women, who took the step forward to tackle rioters we have seen plundering the streets and using violence, and who sometimes literally attacked our aid workers and policemen with those fireworks. That has just been mentioned. Let us be clear: we must absolutely reject this violence. I believe that our Chamber is also very united in this. Mr. Chairman. Where many people are rarely or never victims of violence or abuse, that is a completely different matter for aid workers and enforcers. In 2019 alone, more than 10,000 policemen were victims of violence, as were 2,750 other people with a public task. Violence against people with a public task may sound abstract, but that's about firefighters being hit with fireworks, paramedics being attacked when providing life-saving help or agents being attacked by freaked out rioters. We reject this violence from the bottom of our hearts, precisely because it is violence against people who work in a very special way for security and peace in our society. They take that step forward, have to act in the moment and cannot always defend themselves well at such a time, for example when they are resuscitating someone. If you're attacked, it's just terrible. The law before us today is not about whether we condemn that violence with each other, because we all do. I would like to emphasise that. But the question is whether this law is the correct answer to that violence. And there are critical questions to ask. I have read very carefully what the Council of State has advised us to do. I quote: it is essential that such behaviour against public officials should also be properly punished, but the question arises in the section as to whether an unconditional deprivation of liberty can always be regarded as an adequate and proportionate penalty in lighter cases. In this context, the section points out that the public service ban is absolutely laid down and leaves no room for the courts to make an exception in individual cases. Mr. Chairman. The judges themselves write that the absoluteness of the public service ban could lead, where appropriate, to highly disproportionate and thus undesirable outcomes. This could lead to judges also being tempted to look at alternatives to avoid those outcomes. I would like to know how the cabinet weighed it and how the cabinet weighed it. I just heard the VVD talking about the execution test or the introduction test. An evaluation has already been carried out following the community penalty limitation Act and an evaluation of the community penalty ban that we already know in the case of, among other things, sex crimes. This shows that, in addition to the largely suspended prison period, judges would very much like to impose community service in order to make the offender immediately feel that there is a debt to society that needs to be paid. That's what the judges say. I think that Mr Groothuizen has just rightly given a number of examples where community service could be very effective, perhaps even if you have committed violence against an aid worker. Such community service that can give you insight could make a very good contribution to that. I would also ask you to bear this in mind the report on the premium affair prepared by the Van Dam Committee. In this context, there has been a case in which there has been no possibility, no possibility before the court. It is therefore a matter of poignant circumstances. For example, if there is psychic force majeure or if someone who is weakly gifted gets a cop in a rush or in an emotion, because he sees what happens to his friend or his mother, I think it was the case about the mother that happened, and if it doesn't cause injury, shouldn't the judge also have the room to offer tailor-made work there? We reject that violence, but shouldn't we give the judge in our rule of law, in which we know a separation of powers, that space for customization? For we know that the starting point is already that a prison sentence is being imposed, including by the judges. That's the starting point. The judges already think that is the most appropriate punishment. But shouldn't we give them the possibility of tailor-made work, the possibility of taking into account very distressing circumstances that may sometimes be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u54	There is always a reference to the judges and then almost immediately there is a reference to what happened to the supplementing affair. But I think one of the conclusions was that the judiciary itself has failed. Then I find it very easy to give the judges a little, over our backs, the omnipotence to be able to deliver tailor-made work, which they clearly did not do there. So then I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u55	No, I couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u56	Well, I couldn't. Look, it's also kind of up to the legislator to deliver customization. I always find it a little easy to say: we should listen to the judges. We are an independent, legislative power. We keep each other in balance and we control each other. I would like to see more depth and not say so easily: the judges find something. And then there's the supplemental affair: I don't see that link.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u57	The point I wanted to emphasise is that laws should work out well in practice. That's always a job for us when we make laws. Let there be no misunderstanding about this. The Christian Union shares Mrs Helder's view that violence against aid workers simply cannot and should be punished more severely. We've already got a criminal grounds. But the Christian Union does think it is right... I also hear judges saying on the radio: if we look at the riots of the past few days, you can't go into a case right now.It's quite conceivable that a prison sentence is really reason enough for people who have the premeditated plan to act violently against our aid workers and our policemen. I heard that this morning. Maybe you heard that, too. That's obvious. That's just the practice. What I wanted to emphasise is that we, as legislators, have to look at and listen to our advisor, the Council of State, who says: give the judge the opportunity to offer tailor-made solutions. Judges themselves indicate that in practice they see examples where they think that community service could be extra effective. The Christian Union wants to see if we could give them that opportunity. That is why I ask the Cabinet to reflect on why it has not been chosen, after all these calls and the evaluation of the public service ban that has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u58	Mr President, briefly. I also heard Mr Van der Graaf talk about immediate implementation of community service. That's not gonna happen, because there's a huge delay in parole. It always looks at what the judges, the Council for Justice and the Order of Lawyers think, but the police and the ACP have also provided input here. They don't feel the same way about this. Can you shed your light on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u59	Oh, yeah. I think the bill is a huge support for them. The point is that we give judges the opportunity to offer customization if necessary. Mind you, that's not about the rule, of course, but it's about what I just mentioned: that a weakly gifted person can do an action in an instant. Those are the circumstances we're talking about. In our rule of law, we also often give the judge the opportunity to weigh those circumstances and to weigh them up. I don't think our agents, firefighters and caregivers get any less support from the call for customization. Because that line and that standard are clear and important to set. That's where you'll find the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u61	But I think that call for customization is justified. I would also like to ask the cabinet to explain why it did not choose to implement that public service ban in such a way that the judge would be given more room to combine community service with a conditional prison sentence, with conditions of conduct. This can be a personalised approach that can contribute much better to limiting recurrence. It may also provide a solution to cases where it is obvious to a judge that prison time is not the appropriate route. These are sometimes examples that may be difficult for us as legislators to foresee. Mr. Chairman. I agree with colleagues' questions on the scope of this law. The Council of State has also pointed out the scope of the extended public service ban. It is a question of clarifying this and limiting it to those who are effectively entrusted with a public task in the context of maintaining order and security. That was the reason for this whole bill. I believe that the same applies to those who tabled the motion at the time. I see now a bill that is quite stretched. I also see examples of colleagues who have tabled amendments, which must also be added. But I also think it is important to raise this in this debate. It must also be clear to people when we really make a difference in committing violence. That is always unacceptable, but at the moment when there is a prison sentence hanging over your head, you have to motivate very well why you leave certain groups, a defined group of people, under the scope of the bill. I would like a reflection from the cabinet. Isn't it too broad now? Shouldn't we make that more decisive, also to make it clear to our policemen, the firemen and the caregivers that we're on to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u62	I hear Mrs Van der Graaf saying warm words about community service as such, but has she seen that in this bill it is still possible to combine community service with prison time, including for this defined group? 'Cause for a second, she seemed like she didn't think this was gonna happen anymore. But that combination is still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u63	Sure, and it is also to be welcomed that this can still be done. But the point I'm making here is that I can very well imagine allowing the judge to offer tailor-made work so that he might be able to impose a suspended sentence and combine it with community service. That possibility is not in the law right now. I would like to add that customization to this bill. The Council of State has also pointed this out. The evaluation of the community service ban actually has this as a result. That is actually a possibility which is not there at the moment, but which is considered to be very desirable. That's actually the execution test I just heard the VVD talk about. So I hope the VVD is willing to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u64	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u65	Mr President, I believe that I have raised the core of my speech, including with the interruptions. These are the critical comments made by the Christian Union on the bill. We believe that the starting point of the legal proceedings at the present time is freedom-absorbed punishment. That is a direction that we can certainly underline, but we do think it is important that the judge has room to offer customisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u66	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u67	Madam President, thank you very much. "Demonstrants attack cops with stones, molotov cocktails, bats and knives." "Demonstrants throw rocks and heavy fireworks at the police." "Motor agent flees from rioters." "The mayor's house is extra secure." "Relschoppers squander hospital during the change of day and evening shifts." It's some headlines from the past few days, shocking headlines. It was the reality that our country had to deal with in recent days. This only fits sharp disapproval. Only adequate penalties can be applied here. Unfortunately, the reality with which aid workers and other people have too often to deal with a public task is this kind of thing. We've been talking for years about something finally having to happen. Well, the SGP welcomes this bill if at least one step in the right direction, I'll give it up. It's also a clear signal: you don't touch the helpers with your hands. "Help workers" is very broad for a while, because cops are of course a different category than aid workers, but we all bring them in for a while. It is totally unacceptable to attack those persons who are designated to provide assistance to citizens, to ensure security and to ensure public order, and to prevent them from carrying out their work. Behind that uniform and underneath that hat we forget it sometimes a person is hiding, a man or a woman, a person who often has a family that hopes that Mom or Dad will return home safely after his or her shift. That's what it's really about. People who perform a public task should be able to do their work undisturbed in order to ensure the safety and health of others, of everyone in the Netherlands. If they are attacked and/or if violence is applied against them, it is contrary to any sense of justice as far as the SGP Group is concerned if a bald community service is imposed in response. A community service is a punishment for less serious crimes or crimes under mitigating circumstances. Violence and aggression against people with a public role are not included in the SGP Group, certainly not. The SGP Group therefore supports the extension of the public service ban in order to tackle violence against people with a public service. Mr. Chairman. Research has shown that between 2015 and 2020 hundreds of bald community service sentences were imposed for the abuse of persons with a public task. When you read that, you think to yourself: This can't be true, can it? If we say "get your hands off them," it can't be true that this is a trend. There are even cases of aggravated assault among these crimes. It is not for the aid workers to explain that at one point we are all applauding for the care and that a few months later a hospital will be crowned. Aid workers deserve our respect. So let us show this in our legislation, and let us severely punish the violation of security limits. Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group considers it important that, in addition to good legislation, adequate and effective enforcement can be carried out against suspects of violence against persons with a public role. During the changes in the year, but also during the riots of last week, it has been found that violence against people with a public task is mainly carried out in groups. It is not always possible to verify during police intervention which persons are guilty of what kind of public assault. Can the Minister indicate how this bill provides for effective enforcement? A second question, in addition: does the Minister intend, for example, to equip policemen with bodycams by default in the event of suspected riots? Boas are also regularly dealt with by violence. They are not sufficiently equipped to take adequate action against this. They often have to choose flights out of body retention, instead of tackling the violence. In a sense, they lack even the most basic self-defense weapons. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the equipment of boas, also in the interests of their own safety? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the final point of consideration: the violation of public authority. I read in the legislative proposal that the Minister's intention is that acts of violence against police or enforcers should be regarded as serious crimes. The particular seriousness is that, in addition to the damage to the physical integrity of these victims, the violence committed also affects public authority, hampers the exercise of the task, or creates a risk of such an obstacle under the threat of physical violence. The SGP Group notes that not only physical violence against aid workers affects public authority. Nor can the threat of private servants be tolerated. This can be expressed, for example, in the scratches of a private car or the puncture of the tyres, or of the children's bicycle tires. If people come home with a public task, they should not have to worry about the safety of their families. Is the Minister prepared to extend the legislative proposal to protect the private sphere of persons with a public role? In addition, the destruction of goods and the disabling of vehicles used by persons with a public service mission undermines public authority in view of the safety risks involved. Victims can't be transported in a destroyed ambulance. Cops can't move in a cop car set on fire. Obstacles to assistance are not a minor crime on which a bald community service should rest. You're putting people in danger. That is why a strong signal from the legislator is needed. The amendment I have tabled is intended to supplement this bill. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Aid workers and law enforcement deserve our appreciation, especially now. We must be able to rely on them in times of need; let us ensure that we have solid legislation that they can rely on. That is all expressed in extremely human terms. In the end, we are talking about a higher level of confidence, as you all know, and I would also like to convey it from my politically reformed background. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u68	I'm sure you did. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u69	Mr. Chairman. Violence against aid workers and police officers is not new. As long as I'm in the Chamber, we've been having intense debates about riots that take place or victims that fall under the police while she's at work, in the service of all of us. That does not alter the fact that the images of the last few days shock me again, because it is so intense, because it is so directed against policemen and against the government, whereas all these are men and women who serve only one purpose, namely the safety of our country, and then all want to go home to their wives, children, partners, brothers or sisters that same evening or the same morning. Everyone lives there now under high voltage. I believe that everyone agrees that the punishments for violence against aid workers should be tough and harsh. At the same time, every time you have to look very critically at legislation and what it does, because it is not just about aid workers. This is, of course, about the entire domain of the criminal justice chain. For this reason, I would like to ask a number of factual questions about the public service ban, because I feel obliged to do so. My first question is to what extent the judiciary is still independent and still meets the golden triangle we have agreed on, namely the separation of powers. I am asking this question, in particular, to Minister Grapperhaus, in his role and his background, and, of course, to Minister Dekker. My second question is where do we set the line? There is now a sympathetic amendment from the VVD to include journalists and security guards, but why not all health care providers, why not the teachers or other people who can meet us in the public domain and are now not covered by the definition of "public task," but are now, unfortunately, regularly confronted with violence? My third question is: have we not learned in the past that you should always have an escape for customization? Then you're not saying that someone doesn't deserve punishment, but aren't there conditions imaginable in a lifetime where people go over the lines and where jail time, however short, isn't ultimately the right answer? I am thinking of young adults with learning difficulties. I'm thinking of a father who just lost his child in a serious car accident facing a journalist. I'm thinking of a young woman who, totally overwhelmed by her friends, decides to use drugs once, but is therefore completely out of control. Is jail time, by definition, the most appropriate solution? Sure, these are all extreme examples, but the legal system is based on taking individuals into account, taking into account the context, taking into account circumstances. Is it not fair, then, that we still allow criminal law to take account of that context? Would it not be a better solution in these exceptional cases, following Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union, to say 'I am giving a firm community service, but I am linking it to, for example, a suspended sentence'? Perhaps a prison sentence in 99% of the cases we run into, or perhaps 99.9% of the cases, but should you not leave room for the 0.1% we think "this is not how the legislator intended it'? The corona fines for curfew are fresh. There were shopkeepers in Geleen punished for being outside to defend their own store. We all feel that this is not fair, but you can only take account of that justice when it is possible to tailor it. If that customization is no longer there, then you cannot take that unreasonableness into account. That's what I keep in mind all the time. At the moment when a debate becomes very emotional, and rightly so, and also when it comes to human lives, in this case of police officers, I have to take into account what this means in the extreme case in the lives of individual people. I would simply like to present these dilemmas to both ministers. Have they taken sufficient account of that? I come to my last question. We learned in the past that we need to look sufficiently critically at the execution. Now we have a very critical report from the Council of State and actually we say: figure it out. We have very critical judges. We have critical lawyers. And yet we say, "Find out." Do we have sufficient learning ability to look forward too, or is it still too much motivated by the justified emotions and the justified anger that exists in society? Or should we, however difficult, see if you should have something of a hardness clause, something of an exception in it, because there can always be something in a human life that happens something that you would like to take into account? I would like to put that question to both ministers. I do not like having to have the debate on this today, precisely because it is all so sensitive now. However, I have also learned from the reports that I myself have worked on that it is my job to look critically, sharply and independently in all circumstances, whatever the context in society is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Kuiken, on behalf of the PvdA. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. It's been a long time since you've been behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u71	Yeah, I feel the same way. Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said, so let me confine myself to what has perhaps not been said. It is, of course, a reality that we are dealing with this bill in days when a lot is happening outside. I think I can easily agree with the bewilderment and disgust about what is happening outside of riots. I hope whoever's supposed to be there tonight because of his profession gets home safely. We'll talk about that tomorrow. At the same time, I think we should separate this bill from what is happening outside and look at it on its own merits. For the CDA Group, this bill has not been an 'apple egg'. We have not been in favour of this proposal for years. To put it another way: Mrs Helder has visited us to seduce us, but we have always said: well, should you? I do not mean "enticing in a general sense," but with regard to this bill, I say to put the points on the i. Do you have to restrict the judge's freedom to deal with this? We have noted that a great deal has happened in recent years. We've had the program Safe Public Task. There are clear national agreements. There have been many programmes to promote the safety of our public workers. We have to note that this has not been done. Not to the extent we had hoped. Then we can start theorizing. Then we can talk about general and specific prevention. We can talk about the purposes of criminal law. We can also talk about the number of cases in which this is now taking place. In this respect, we have taken good note of the Erasmus University report. It is not that we say: everything must happen. For example, we will not support an amendment on the extension to Article 141 on public violence. We have come to a point where we want to put our policemen and our paramedics in a clear language. It just needs to be clear, and they need to be able to convey that it's just humming when you come with your hands to aid workers, policemen and firefighters and cause them actual and physical injury. The community service, which was originally an alternative, is indeed in the order a bit lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u72	I should have asked in my own speech, but does Mr Van Dam have any idea how many things remain on the table when it comes to violence against aid workers or police officers? 'Cause I hear it a lot from cops who've been attacked themselves. They have never been informed and their business is still on the shelf. Does Mr Van Dam have an overview of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u73	My experience is that precisely because of programs like Safe Public Task and all these things are brought to plenary session with priority. I myself have experienced, to my own misery, that I have stood endlessly in hearings with cases of violence against police and firefighters, when, for example, I had a vice case in my closet and could not be heard. I know what the experience of policemen is like, but I don't have the picture of them being dealt with stupidly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u74	Then I'll probably talk to some lame-ass cops when you put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u75	Well, those are your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u76	No, but I mean, I do speak to cops on a regular basis, and this is one of the first complaints to come. I think it would be wise for the cabinet simply to make it clear how many things are still on the table for aid workers, how long they have to wait until their case actually comes to trial, which is the follow-up to that and also how many times there is a dismissal. What I always have a bit of a problem with is that we want to talk very loudly about the measure of punishment, but that there is so little attention and so little capacity for the front before those perpetrators are even tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u77	That's really not my experience at all. We have clear national agreements which give priority to these kinds of facts, where there is an explicit investment in helping victims in the direction of those workers. That was also agreed within the police, the so-called GTPA agencies. Everything is being done in that area. So it is not my experience, but it is right and proper that you should ask the cabinet to make that clear in the whole of this discussion. I fully support that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u78	Finalizing, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u79	Let's do that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u80	Yes. So you are using Mr Van Dam for a question to the cabinet. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u81	I think we are simply looking at this law differently and we are making a different assessment of what needs to be done in the end. I respect that. I also understand Mr Van Dam's input. I do wonder if he is familiar with him as someone who looks carefully at such a law, and has also had matters in mind which he may suspect would lead to an unreasonable outcome. In fact, there is some sort of minimum penalty in the Code of Criminal Law. For certain things, it's not community service, it's a custodial sentence. In many cases, of course, that is absolutely right, but can Mr Van Dam also imagine cases where this is an inhumane consequence of a law that can be extremely harsh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u82	Honestly, no. In other words, I heard the comparison with the parliamentary interrogation committee which apparently took place recently in this Chamber, saying: do not make that law too harsh or create a hardness clause. However, there really is a fundamental difference between administrative law, where the judge I found out was at a certain distance, very marginally tested, hardly looks at the facts, because it is assumed that you have to trust that administrative authority, which will have done well, and on the other hand the criminal court, which reverses every tile, which looks at every fact, where, for example, when it comes to the accountability of people, it is considered much earlier whether that should not lead to another outcome in the process. In addition, and I see this as the escape in this scheme, almost all of these suspects are now being put into insurance for a few days, but I would like to mention the fact that they are being detained for this kind of fact. I have no problem with it if that's the settlement of the prison sentence. Therefore, I would not support an amendment to exclude the detention. It's just as well to take that with you. For me, it's important for anyone who thinks they're in any emotional state to sit down with a cop, a firefighter or an ambulance worker, just get the message: then you sit down. How long do I like to leave to the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u83	I understand that emotion, and I share it. Hands off our paramedics, we can't say it enough. By the way, I didn't make the one parallel to the supplemental affair. That is what Mr Van Dam himself does and I fully understand the difference between...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u84	Others do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u85	Fine. Those differences between administrative law and criminal law are there, of course, and a criminal will look at the individual circumstances of the case. But I do not understand very well that Mr Van Dam says: I do not really see cases where this is going to work out, in which community service is ultimately a suitable punishment. What good is it if Mr Van Dam's apparently desired outcome is: deduction of pre-trial detention, so sitting for three days and nothing else? While you could also say: it is much wiser to impose community service in those cases or to combine community service with a strong suspended sentence, a stick behind the door, to give someone behavioral therapy, mandatory treatment, to treat the disorder. 'Cause someone's not gonna be right in the head when they're chasing a paramedic. These kinds of combinations are all made impossible and I don't quite understand that. I do not think that is a clever way of dealing with criminal law, but I would like to tell Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u86	I have the impression that several colleagues assume that community service is no longer possible. However, if I read the article correctly, there will be no further separate community service and an unconditional prison sentence will have to be imposed, and perhaps even other forms of punishment. It's very clear to me. I wish the judge all the freedom to make it one day or three years in prison, but I think that is what I stand for on behalf of my party, that all people who come into such a situation should be able to say: if you touch me, then you have a very good chance of sitting. That does mean something else. That means a violation of your work and of your personal situation. I would very much like to give that confidence to our aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u87	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u88	I understand very well how the law works, because the combination with an unconditional custodial sentence is possible, but the combination with a conditional custodial sentence is indeed not possible. I don't think that's appropriate. Obviously, Mr Van Dam would like to give all kinds of things to the police officer, whose sound is well interpreted. I can go along with this for a very large part, but apparently he does not entrust it to judges to impose the right punishment that will be most just in certain circumstances. Well, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u89	I do not entirely agree with you, because I am still giving a great deal of space to judges, but I think it is also a task of politics here in the Chamber to give direction, to give frameworks for that. I also refer to all the policy efforts we have had with each other. I think it is extremely decent that, when there comes a time when you say "boys, it doesn't work" we should, at some point, lay a legal ground in it. I don't need to tell the judge what he should or shouldn't do, but I do need to indicate frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u90	Mr Van den Berge. I also saw Mr Groothuizen and Mr Bishop. Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u91	I would like to go into a little more detail about that hardness clause. Would it not be a good idea to include an exception in the law, regardless of our differences of opinion on the substance of the law, with which we say that in serious cases there can be a derogation from the public service ban if there are good reasons for doing so, for example the need for psychiatric treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u92	But then I read the law like this. Suppose you're really completely insane, then, so it says, you get tbs or a conditional tbs. That's actually the alternative to jail time. Besides, you can get community service. If you're not, and if you have a certain degree of accountability, then I guess there's nothing wrong with you getting a few days in jail. Leave that to the judge. But there will have to be a prison sentence. That is indeed the consequence of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u93	I spoke to a former judge. We are confirmed by the letters we received from several judges. That former judge, for example, said that it is in line with what Mr Kuik said earlier about the waiting times, that he sometimes gets a case in court from one and a half, two years ago. That suspect is finally in a good treatment path, for which there is a long waiting list. If you put that person inside the prison walls, that person is out of treatment. Then it can sometimes be very appropriate, in the interests of society and to avoid repetition, not to impose prison sentences. That's in the interests of the treatment. If I read the law correctly, but if I see it wrong, then I would like to hear it later from the ministers in their response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u94	Yes, you know, my experience in these cases is that in all cases there has actually been one, two, three days of insurance with which this can be settled. If I weigh that down, and I am simply very simple about that, then I think that the message we have to give to our aid workers is more important in that respect than the problem I do not think is practical, that the matter cannot be cut with scissors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u95	To get it as sharp, without making it a caricature: if it can be settled, it actually has little added value compared to the status quo. Is it just symbolic, or does it take real added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u96	No, it's by no means symbolic, absolutely not. The fact that you have on your documentation that a prison sentence has been pronounced is more than symbolic to me. I think that's really important. I think that we should send a clear message to our aid workers and give them the back-up that people who are seriously assaulting someone or trying to abuse them, I see it happening on my screen every night, unfortunately, know that they have to roam. I'd like to leave the size of that hump to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u97	You can see that Mr Van Dam is struggling a bit with the tension that lies in the possibility of tailor-made work by the judge and in the fact that it gives a ground somewhere. He calls that a framework, but of course it's a variant of some sort of minimum punishment. It is a very limited one, but it is still a sort of minimum sentence. He solves that at.I predicted that in my first term............................................................................................................................................................................................. That says: the judge can always impose one or two days in prison; that is often set against the period in which people are insured, so that it does not yield so much more de facto under the line. It's possible. Of course, in such a sad case, it matters whether you have to sit down for three weeks or whether it just gets straightened out. But the question is: Mr Van den Berge asked if this really does justice to the feeling of the police, that Mr Van Dam wants to serve, namely that people should really sit down if you choose these solutions. Can Mr Van Dam comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u98	I have a bit of the idea that repetition at this point is the strength of my message. Anyway, why not? But let's face it: for the people who do this, you have to write in chocolate block letters and make clear what the policy is. I have real respect for everyone here who has the general prevention, retaliation and I don't know what's on the table. You've been in that room for 12 years, I've been in that room for 19 years. Then I think at some point: in the end it's people who want to hear a very simple story. Then for me the clear story is, friend, if you leave home and you think you can afford to deal with one of our knights of the rule of law, then you know in advance what the price list is. That's the story for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u99	The repetition becomes the strength especially when you do not answer the question. The question was: does this do justice to the feelings of the police, who feel that people should go to jail when one day's imprisonment is imposed under the line, which is offset by the insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u100	I also talk to a lot of policemen who say yes to that in my direction. I also talk to policemen who say: I don't need to. I think that's a minority. But apart from that, this is what I think of it. I'm a Member of Parliament and I like it. Of course it is important to hear what those involved think about it, but over and over and over again, Mrs Kuik said that we are also standing here when there are incidents of violence and there is trouble. Then I think: as a country, we need the next step in that. This is the next step for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u101	Mr. Bishop. No, he doesn't have to. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u102	I know how Mr Van Dam carries the rule of law in his heart, body and members at the moment he is here as a Member of Parliament. He has a history as an officer and has even more experience in the criminal justice chain. So he brings a lot of experience. I often hear Mr Van Dam talking about how important it is that we have confidence in our judges. He says they need to be given the space to make the right balance. He has just said that we should not all just compare the report on the supplementing affair, which he led, with what is happening here. I get that. However, I would like to ask Mr Van Dam the following. He says, leave it to the judge. But if you don't offer the judge any more opportunities for customization, will you really leave it to the judge? Mr Van Dam rightly says...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u103	And what is your question, Mrs Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u104	The question is: how does Mr Van Dam reflect on that? Isn't it a limitation of the judge's freedom of judgment at the moment that you would do the bill in its present form? Shouldn't we be looking at the valve that's missing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u105	We've limited the judge in a number of ways. If there's a fact that has more than six years in prison, I don't think you should impose community service. That's also a circumstance. I am not going to defray the entire Code of Criminal Law here, if only to maintain my relationship with the President, but there are more places in which we as legislators have said: within this framework you have to do your job as a judge. That's how I see this. I can honestly not feel that I would fail to answer that question, but I would say it myself through the bottom of the rule of law. I really don't feel that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u106	Then I would ask Mr Van Dam to reflect on the evaluation of the public service ban as we already know in the sex crimes, among other things, where officers and judges say: in practice, we see that the imposition of a conditional prison sentence combined with community service could be a more appropriate and effective punishment. Will Mr Van Dam do justice to that evaluation and thus give room in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u107	I have to tell you that I listened to your input and thought, "Okay, besides community service, you'll have to do an unconditional prison sentence," but I forgot if you could also do a paroleal part. So that means that you say: I'll put you up to six months, three of which are conditional and three are unconditional. I don't know about that for a while, but maybe we can take that as a question to the cabinet. I know the effectiveness of a suspended sentence combined with community service. I know that; that's been investigated. But you know, today I have the ears a little shorter on the head. Well, let me put it this way. We need to give our aid workers a clear story. So I'm totally okay with that if that's possible, but it has to be clear that you're gonna get your hands out to that whole group of people we've been talking about. That's my point. I did not go ice over one night, but I think it took my group ten years to get this far, if I may believe Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u109	I'm actually reasonable at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u110	Oh, Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u111	It is good to hear that Mr Van Dam likes a clear story today. He's also keeping a clear story here. I'm going to see if he can continue with that, because his list leader, Mr. Hoekstra, also had a very clear story at WNL this morning. He said, "The free news garage is so important that you have to protect it more." What is the CDA going to do with our amendment to include journalists in the scope of this law? That is what Mr Hoekstra was asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u112	Very briefly. Can I include the private security guards? Once I started my career as a business detective at Vroom & Dreesmann. Vroom & Dreesmann no longer exists, at least not within the law, but I do; I wanted to make a point about that. So I've been through that world, too. We have done a very long time to make this bill. Look at the discussion we're having here. This is something essential. I do not think we should ride this with an amendment. I therefore hope to table a motion in the second term in which I ask the cabinet to examine how we can also bring journalists underneath. But I think that this will require a little more consideration than an amendment here, with respect for your attempt to do so. Then you should also talk to the journalists' union and the Council for Justice about this. We've had a discussion here before about what a journalist is. Is every vlogger on a cell phone a journalist or not? So there are things that I think we should look into a little bit more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u113	Really serious! Mr Van Dam is here using great words about violence against people. Mr Hoekstra is on television saying that we need to go further in terms of protection. And then the answer is, yes, we're gonna do another little investigation. Isn't that completely gratuitous?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u114	I'm used to getting out of court and saying, "I hear you say it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u115	But it's too bad... Journalists are being attacked. Private security guards at supermarkets are under attack. Concrete proposals are being made. The law is there. Now is the time to talk about that. That's a very serious moment. We still have time. I also agree with Mr Van Dam on this point. We still have some time left, so if he wants to look further at the amendments, I am open to them, but please let us work together to better protect those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u116	I certainly want to work together to protect people better, but if there's one thing I've learned in a committee's period of time, is that you need to think about legislation and that you definitely need to take a little time to study it on these points. We have done the same on this subject. Mrs Helder has waited endlessly and has brought this about. Open violence has still been investigated by Erasmus University. Those are all things that have contributed to this bill. That is, with all due respect to your position, my approach to such a subject. You can't agree with that, but that's the way I want it to fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u118	Mr. Chairman. I have one more question, which is about threat, Article 285 Criminal law. That's not included in the articles. I understand that, too, because they are words and not deeds, so to speak. But we all know how huge impact words can have. Would the cabinet be able to clarify what's going on? Then there is Article 141, not public violence, paragraph 1, but may I say that Article 141 (2) is covered? In my opinion, if you're causing injury in the event of open violence, that's an eight-year-old fact. So that is now covered by this provision, but I would like to hear confirmation from the cabinet that that is settled. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm gonna finish up. I have something here that I can't read myself, so I'm just gonna put on the glasses. Let me put it this way: I heard some electoral rhetoric here and there in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u119	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u120	Yeah, I heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u121	We didn't notice, did we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u122	No. I would nevertheless like to conclude by saying that it is not really up to the PVV and the VVD that this bill is there, but that we as a CDA have joined us. Maybe that's good to notice. Furthermore, back to the beginning, it is of course very complicated what is happening outside, what is happening. I think, once again, that we should see that a little separately and that we should not allow ourselves to be overheated in this debate, perhaps a little warmer, but should not let what is happening there heat up. I'm glad we can talk about that tomorrow. Once again, I hope that is what I would like to emphasise, Mr President, that colleagues have the room to be convinced in this debate. That is what I want when it comes to amendments and other things. We have taken a different look at this recently, especially in order to put a clear story in the mouth of our aid workers. That's what comes first with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u123	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. It's not gonna happen now, is it? We agree on that. Then I'll suspend the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-26-tweedekamer-25.u124	Tomorrow we will continue with the first term of office. For now, I thank everyone and close the meeting.
