ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34641, Amendment of the Code of Criminal Law in connection with the inclusion of a specific penalty exclusion ground for investigators who have used force in the legitimate exercise of their duties and criminalisation of violation of the violence instruction and amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the inclusion of a basis for criminal investigation into the use of force by detectives, briefly Violence investigation officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're discussing a proposal today that looks at the use of violence by detectives. It is the final part of a review process that has been going on since 2013. My group has great respect for the police. Day in, day out policemen work hard on the security of our society. Let me express this appreciation here in particular. In my group, there are also concerns. We are discussing this closure at a precarious moment, a moment when this country is in crisis and there is social unrest about the use of police violence. I am thinking of the action against demonstrators at Museumplein and at the Malieveld here in The Hague. We realize that the police are being sent out on the streets week in, week in, week out with an almost impossible task, that the current corona policy requires a lot from our enforcers and that this enforcement comes on top of all the other police work, but we also have an eye for the concerns that this raises. There is also social unrest about the bad track record of the police when it comes to racism, discrimination and ethnic profiling. This week the newspapers were full of the latest news about the shameful and totally unacceptable app conversations within the Rotterdam police. My stomach turned from that. Unfortunately, this incident is not on its own; I will come back to that later. First of all, I would like to highlight the need for this proposal. Experts call this amendment mainly symbolic. The government itself also writes that the current system of exclusion offers sufficient legal protection. The Council of Justice also points to the purely symbolic significance, symbolic of the police because it emphasizes their special position. The police do not want to be placed by the same bar as citizens who want to harm another. And we understand that, but if you review the proposal legally and conclude that it has only a symbolic function, why do we do so? I would like a response from the Minister on the necessity. A second question that lives with my group and which is in line with it is whether this route is the right one. Isn't it obvious to raise disciplinary law? I am thinking of a criminal law approach where it is really necessary to prosecute, even if it is appropriate, as well as disciplinary law. The latter is now underutilised, while it brings great benefits. Of course, this disciplinary procedure has to meet the requirements of independence, objectivity and transparency, but if it is secured, it has an important added value. Criminal prosecutions never really contribute to learning effects in the police or to improving the quality of police action, according to experts Jaap Timmer and Margrete van der Steeg in Ars Aequi. The introduction of the police offence does not change that, they say. When the judge gives a ruling, the organisation's reflex is soon: that judge hasn't understood a thing. A disciplinary sanction gives a greater guarantee that the police organisation actually does something about it. In addition, the complainant has a much more prominent role in disciplinary law than in criminal law, and this in turn leads to more satisfaction for the victim. In medical disciplinary law, criminal law does not come into play until it is deliberate. Can the Minister please tell us what he thinks of this route? Has this been considered, too? Why wasn't this route chosen? How is it now ensured in the police organisation that lessons are learned from court rulings? Then there is the question of democratic control of the content of the instruction. The Minister does not see anything in a pending procedure, and my group would like to dwell on this a little longer. The office instruction shall be given a central place in the event of violation of Article 372 of the Code of Criminal Law. In assessing the suspicion, the judge will assess the content of that instruction. This is the most concrete part of the violence instruction. The material standard of criminalisation can therefore be found in that instruction. The Minister points out that in shaping the Police Act 2012 there was no choice for a suspension procedure. That may be true, but of course that is not chiseled in stone. My group wonders why a pending procedure is not considered appropriate at the moment. Why does Parliament have nothing to say about this? The Dutch Legal Committee on Human Rights comes to the conclusion that parliamentary involvement in the instruction is desirable. "Parliamentary involvement lies in reason," they say, and they are not the least. Compare it with the Opium Act, which includes the prohibited substances in List I and List II. Those lists are established at AMvB and even a heavy front. Therefore, pursuant to Article 3a (4) of the Opium Act, Parliament is entitled to take part in the consideration of whether an arbitrary substance such as alfentanyl, i.e. what is prohibited, but not the question of whether the use of a pulse weapon against a minor is permissible. Whether brotizolam is prohibited, but not whether rubber bullets can be used against demonstrators in the future. My group believes that this is wrong and asks the Minister again why a parliamentary test is not considered desirable. Does the Minister still intend to commit to setting up a preliminary procedure? Can the Minister also include in his reply that research shows that in countries where police powers are changed after a public debate, the number of victims of police violence is falling and the legitimacy of police action increases? I'd like a response. Then the contents of the instruction itself. In its opinion, the Council of State draws attention to the lex certa principle, which requires that the description of the offence should be as precise as possible. The Council of State recommends that the means of violence be further regulated, and the government does so with Article 372 in mind. That's interesting. After all, it is clear that the change in the instructions of the office involves a substantial extension of the possible use of force. The wider the potential use of violence, the less quickly an investigator is punishable. The Minister recognizes this also in response to our questions, and that makes it necessary to discuss the content of this instruction here and now. My group first of all asks the question: why are these extensions needed? We have serious reservations about this. Crime rates have fallen substantially in recent years. Research also shows that violence against the police is not increasing. The figures up to 2020 even show a slight decrease, which now brings us back to 2010 levels. In any case, there is no increase in violence against the police. Then why is it necessary to extend the police's violent arsenal? Why are 17,000 cops soon to be equipped with a stun gun, if crime is falling and there is no more violence against detectives? I'd like a response from the Minister. I look at the content of the new instruction of office and at what the Minister says about it in response to my questions and to those of other groups, a number of things stand out. I will mention six points. First of all, the service dog enters the instruction. The stakes are spacious and can even be achieved with a single theft such as stealing a roll of licorice, in which someone resists the arrest. Bet in a confined space such as a car is not excluded. The Minister says that biting in the neck or face in training is not taught, nor is part of the review or certification, but he also says that such an effort can never be ruled out in advance. The second point is that the starting point is that means of violence are not used against a person in a vulnerable group. But it is not explicitly excluded, although it was previously the case, especially with the pepper spray. The use of the power surge weapon, police dog, pepper spray and in the future rubber bullets is therefore not excluded for vulnerable groups such as children under 12, older people over 65 years and visibly vulnerable groups. The instructions concerning the use of pepper spray at a distance of at least one meter shall lapse. The power surge weapon can be used to withdraw from the arrest as a result of any fact. That doesn't have to be a violent crime, so it could be after a shoplifting without violence. A third point that stands out: the use of a power surge weapon is not excluded against confused persons, even in a ggz setting. My fourth point is that no criteria have been laid down for the use of physical violence, such as the neck clamp, thinking of Mitch Henriquez. As a fifth point, I would like to mention that a firearm may be used against someone who is caught in the act in a suspected home invasion, if they do not stand. And as a sixth point, the use of non-penetrable projectiles is stretched; they can be used against people who disrupt public order. Think about protesters doing that. The police do not yet have rubber bullets, but the Minister may decide to do so on his own. These are all essential extensions. I would like to remind you that, as a parliament, we have no role to play in these considerations. The Minister says that an extension of the instruction does not mean that more and more violence may be used. But there is this room. The Minister pointed out that, in any specific situation, use of violence should be assessed against the requirements of necessity, proportionality and so on, as laid down in the Police Act. Of course it is. But my group believes that the absence of a lower limit is undesirable. The lower limit for vulnerable people should have been maintained for pepper spray and, as far as we are concerned, even extended for the use of the police dog and the stun gun. The Minister doesn't see it that way. He says that it is not always easy to determine whether someone belongs to a vulnerable group. For this reason, in the light of the criminalisation, it is not desirable to maintain the criteria and introduce them into the criteria for the use of other means of violence, says the Minister. But my group cannot justify that. Of course, there are situations where it is not immediately clear whether someone is vulnerable. But there are just as many situations where it is. Moreover, if you are in doubt: not doing so is also an important standard. Under the current rules, a power surge weapon could be used against minors. Of course, that is beyond the test of the Police Act in relation to proportionality and so on. But should we not, as a society, say: using such a means of violence against a child is never proportionate, never meets the demand of moderation or reasonable commitment, or bet against a pregnant woman or an 80-year-old? Doesn't that apply to them equally? For my group, this question needs to be answered in the affirmative, precisely because there is no study of the consequences of the use of such means of violence, as it turned out in response to our questions. The Minister says that the investigation will now be done, and that people who have been tased will be offered a medical examination and may fill out a questionnaire. The citizen as a test subject, then. For my group, this is totally undesirable, especially when it comes to vulnerable groups. This investigation should have been carried out in advance and not afterwards. If these data are not available in the Netherlands, they are fixed in other countries. I'd like a response. Another point that my group would like to raise is the fact that new forms of violence have been introduced, while previous extensions have not been evaluated. For example, the extendable baton was introduced in 2018. According to experts, this leads to more and more serious fractures. The use of this stick has not been evaluated, and yet we are about to expand. The same goes for the pepper spray. The active substances in that spray have become heavier, my group understands. The consequences of this have not been evaluated. And yet, in the instruction of the office, the possible application of it is being extended. After all, the lower limit for use against minors, the elderly and the vulnerable is released. Does the Minister and we in the Chamber think that this is really acceptable, without Parliament being able to make a judgement on this? My group is asking the Minister for an explanation. Why is enlargement taking place, while the advantages and disadvantages of previous enlargements have not even been assessed? I'd like a substantive response. Then I shall come to a very important point for my group: ethnic profiling by police officers. In the summer of 2020, George Floyd was killed by police violence in the United States. This is an appropriate moment, now that the trial is taking place in America. Worldwide Black Lives Matter demonstrations were launched, also here in the Netherlands. During the same period, this proposal landed here in this Chamber. Although the law came fairly quietly through the Lower House, my group, as well as those of other progressive parties, was flooded with reports of distressed people, especially young people. They believe that the police are systematically guilty of ethnic profiling and there was a fear that the police could get away with violence with this law, including in relation to ethnic profiling. The police were, as was their fear, rewarded with this law for bad behavior. We asked questions to the Minister. At the heart of his reaction was that the bill does not make it more difficult to prosecute police violence with a racist background, that the penalty requirement is greatly increased if there is a discriminatory aim and that a situation such as that surrounding George Floyd in the United States by the prosecution would probably not be prosecuted under Article 372 of the Code of Criminal Law, because it would be intentional. The prosecution then takes place on the basis of manslaughter. That's clear language, and that's good. Despite these answers, my group continues to have concerns about ethnic police profiling, also in relation to police violence. Figures show that people with a migration background die four times more often as a result of police violence than white Dutch people. If you put that against their share in the total population, that's even 12.6 times as often, so calculated Control Alt Delete. In this way, proportionality is twice as high in the Netherlands as in the United States, which we often talk about. That's a disturbing picture. How does the Minister indicate these figures? And will the Minister undertake to investigate this further? My group realizes that, of course, this cannot be linked one-on-one to ethnic profiling, but it does raise questions. We have had talks with the police on this issue, on what the current policy is aimed at a diverse and inclusive police organisation, and on a police force that is not responsible for ethnic profiling in its actions. We have noted that at the moment there is no effective national policy that is being implemented in a structural manner and that it must ensure that the police organisation becomes more diverse and inclusive, both in terms of its own organisation and in terms of how it acts in society. It also became clear that this policy is in the making. Something has been formulated in the vein of "a police for all" and portfolio holder Martin Sitalsing has developed a five-step plan to make the police a more diverse and inclusive organisation, and to counter ethnic profile. This five-step plan is still a plan at the moment. He calls it "the disc of five." It still has to be rolled out, and that is the concern of my group. What is this Minister going to do to ensure that this policy is actually implemented throughout the police organisation in such a way that this will really be a leap forward? After all, paper is patient. How is it ensured that every agent, in addition to shooting skills training, will also be able to cope with diversity training every year? For my group, a more conscious policy aimed at combating ethnic profiling is inextricably linked to this law. Is the Minister aware of this five-step plan and is he involved in it? And what does he think? If the performance of the police is not improved in this respect, I fear that the concerns of our constituents will be realised. I would like to hear what efforts this Minister is going to make on this issue. My group is considering a motion on this point to strengthen this, to call from the Senate as well and to underline the need for these plans. I may come back to that in my second term. I'll come to a conclusion. In principle, my group understands the choice of a separate regime for investigators. The police must take a step forward where we must and can take a step back. That justifies a special status. This particular status does include a special responsibility, with specific steps on inclusion, diversity and the fight against ethnic profiling. We have less understanding of the extension of the use of force, because more powers lead to more violence. This is also apparent after the introduction of the pepper spray. The introduction of the pepper spray did not visibly replace other forms of police violence. The use of the pepper spray just added up. More violence also leads to less trust among citizens in the police. And that the role of parliament has been undermined does not help. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. I hope that the Minister will be aware of this in replying to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. Mr Van Wely on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mrs Veldhoen refers to the racist apps of the Rotterdam police. Now the police are very large. Mrs Veldhoen suggests that there is structural racism. Can she base it on that alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thanks for the question. I'm not just basing it on that. I think the simplest answer is that the police themselves recognise that there is a non-inclusive police organisation, let me put it this way, and that the police themselves also see the need to formulate and roll out further policies to ensure that the police become more diverse and inclusive, that racism and discrimination are combated and that ethnic profiling no longer takes place. So the police face that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u7	As far as I can tell, the police are investigating. However, there is a difference between investigating incidents and declaring it to be structural. As a result, a committee of inquiry on anti-discrimination has recently been set up. Are you saying, since you've already reached your conclusion, that that committee has no more work to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u8	I always think it would be a good idea for the committee to do its job and investigate this further. But I note from conversations with the police that the police themselves also sees the need for policy formulation and the structural roll-out of that policy throughout the organisation. I think we have also received enough reports about racism and discrimination within the police organisation. It is a culture in which inclusion is not always paramount. I think it is very good that the investigation is being carried out, but of course the good news is that the police organisation itself is aware of this problem and has also formulated policies to combat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Mr. Van Wely, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u10	Yeah, one last question on what you said about George Floyd's death. At the time, the bill was passed by a large majority in the House of Representatives. Let's face it, George Floyd's death from police brutality isn't really an incident in America. Why didn't we wake up until now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u11	What exactly is the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u12	Two years ago, the proposal was adopted in the House of Representatives, while the situation in America remained exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u13	Yeah, and then I still don't know exactly what the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u14	Well, I'll give you one more chance, Mr. Van Wely. Otherwise, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u15	One last try. Why did your group in the House of Representatives agree to the bill, when nothing has really changed about the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u16	Now I understand your question; thank you for the effort. The Lower House Group has agreed to this law at a time when the Black Lives Matter demonstrations were not as widely represented as they were in the past year. The Lower House Group has made its own assessment of this and, on the basis of the elements considered positive to this law, has concluded that the special position of the investigating officer............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are asking a number of questions and we are going to re-assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u17	Following on from Mr Van Wely's question. Of course, it's very tragic what happened to George Floyd. That has also been a great deal loosened, but is Mrs Veldhoen aware that in America we are dealing with a completely different piece of arms legislation, with a constitutional right to carry weapons, making the violence there completely incomparable with the Netherlands? So now to apply America's case to this bill, I think it's going a little far. What does Mrs Veldhoen think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u18	I do not think I am applying the United States' situation to this bill. As an example, the situation in the United States overwhelmed us as a party with disturbing e-mails, but I do not apply the situation of the United States to the Netherlands. I am applying the Dutch situation to this law, not the American one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mrs Veldhoen talks about the situation in America. There, of course, the escalation of gun violence and the threshold for the use of firearms are totally different from that in the Netherlands, where fortunately this is much less violent, also because of the much less widespread possession of weapons. So I would like to point out that we should not drag everything into it when we discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. The police use violence against civilians about 15,000 times a year. This law is about the exception, the reaction of the government in the relatively small number of cases that the use of force by the police does not seem to have gone well. It is this exception that determines the image of how the government deals with its citizens. This picture is therefore based on this exception and determines how groups relate to Dutch society. Whether they're part of it or not, whether the police belong to all of us or only to those in power. This law is therefore very important, even if it is about the exception. The monopoly of violence lies with the government and this power must be followed critically. My group has read the law, with the question in mind: does it undermine the legal protection of citizens against police violence? That doesn't seem to be the case if you're isolated from the law alone. Police violence continues to be assessed by the same criterion, the instruction of the office in relation to proportionality and subsidiarity under Article 7 Police law, only on the basis of another crime. A crime that does more justice to the cop. The agent must, at risk for his own safety, deal with dangerous situations and use force, where we are supposed to leave and be protected by that agent. The purpose of the new offence is to cover cases where the infringement of the violence is the result of a culpable error of assessment or carelessness on the part of the investigating officer, a situation in which prosecution of a general crime of violence is often less appropriate, given the role of the investigating officer. Persecution based on other crimes, such as assault or manslaughter, remains possible. The grounds for exclusion and the specialised judge and prosecutor also seem to be improving. My group is pleased that, as a result of the motion in the House of Representatives, citizens can be heard at their request. We are less happy with the Van Dam amendment, which forces the prosecutor, unlike usual, to choose which crime he is charging. This restricts the scope of the court and invests with an officer of the district attorney who is closer to the police than the judge at a relatively early stage of the procedure. My group would have preferred to keep the room in court. From answers to our questions on this point, I understand that there is still a small back door to correct errors or bring new serious facts. That back door will be the release of a new subpoena. I would ask the Minister to confirm this and to explain again why there will be no conflict with the ne bis in idem principle. With the advice of the Council of State, the instruction finally came to this Chamber and could be involved in the proceedings. That is important again because the instruction of office was now also formally informal that of course already the case of the material interpretation of the criterion of the law in the formal sense. Is the lex certa principle guaranteed if "the violation of the instruction of violence" is punishable and, in turn, the instruction of violence consists largely of the instruction of the office? Are all investigators trained in any modification of the instruction? Can the Minister say again how Parliament is involved in a change in the instructions of office now that this has a direct impact on the criminality of Article 372 Criminal Law? Mr Veldhoen has also asked questions on this subject, and I am happy to join. My group is concerned about the lack of parliamentary control over the instruction of duties. The instruction gives the lower limit, which violence is certainly not proportional. After reading the answers to the extensive questions of this Chamber about the various means of violence in the instruction, I came to the following conclusions. One. In order to provide as much space as possible for customization, but also to increase awareness, the instruction of office has become more general and therefore more vague. Two. As a result, the individual agent will be less able to rely on strict rules and more will be tested on open standards proportionality, subsidiarity, reasonableness and moderation. So the uncertainty for the agent will increase rather than decrease. Three. As the legal scope for the agent to use means of violence increases, not only does the importance of culture, policy and teaching focussed on de-escalation increase, but also the need for transparency and independent supervision. Can the Minister state whether he agrees with these conclusions? Mr. Chairman. My group understands that an agent must have an action perspective if he is to use force. Sometimes even short intervention with a little more violence on balance is safer for everyone than longer or more risky action at a lower level of violence. On the other hand, in answer to our questions why the instruction of the office does not have any closer boundaries, the Minister always manages to set an example out of the top hat in which such a limit does not come true. As a result, serious violence, such as the use of the police dog in a small space as a car, can be used. Following the government's reasoning, it would be better to abolish the instruction of the office and test all violence against those limits of proportionality and subsidiarity. Of course, this cannot be the intention. The government also wants a lower level of violence in the instruction of the office. I therefore ask again why this lower limit has been extended and has not been chosen to directly prohibit certain undesirable violence and, in that consideration, to take the exceptional case that the use of the product would have been better, but to buy it. Let's separate the taser. After the designation decision has been amended, it will be extended to 17,000 agents. My group has serious reservations about this. The taser is leveled with the stick and pepper spray. Is that right, when at the same time the WODC states that there is little scientific knowledge about the effects on health, including mental health? But even without this knowledge, a very strong power surge seems to me to be a much heavier measure than a blow with a baton. This means, for example, that it is possible to withdraw from an arrest. It is also not limited to vulnerable people, so that it can theoretically be used on children and the elderly. It can also be used within the ggz. In these circumstances, my group is concerned that the large-scale use of this instrument leads to more than less violence, while we also see that it can be a result in some cases. Large-scale efforts seem therefore not justified at the moment. An evaluation by 2027 does not reassure. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the taser's commitment or at least evaluate it earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u22	I would like to ask a question about this evaluation. Does the Labour Party agree with D66 that an evaluation should be broader than just the taser, but also other means of violence, and that we could bring that forward and, for example, make an overall assessment within three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u23	Yeah, I'd like to join that. If you propose to broaden it, the danger is of course that you make it less real. I think that taser is the most jumping out of it; that is why I make a separate point of it. But also with other means of violence, I think that an evaluation would be very useful. Mrs Veldhoen has already mentioned a number of examples, such as pepper spray. Let us, above all, keep a close eye on this and do so in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u24	I believe that the problem that it could become too broad could be overcome if civil society organisations, such as Alt Delete, Amnesty International or NJCM, could also be involved in this evaluation, so that a wide-ranging analysis could be carried out, but the specific means of violence could be zoomed in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u25	I also think that the proposal to involve outsiders in the evaluation would be extremely useful. You shouldn't let the butcher who approves his own meat do that. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister if he can explain how the operational choices for the use of violence are assessed and possibly sanctioned. This law seems to be only about the agents on the street, but what if there is a culpable error of assessment at operational level, causing the agent in the field to apply disproportionate violence? I take it the cop isn't a criminal offence, but does that mean it has no consequences? And in what way, in general, is the operational consideration of the use of force, for example, I would like to mention what is being tested on protesters at the Malieveld? Police work is human work, but my group is keen to see that it is embedded in policies aimed at de-escalation as much as possible, in line with a long Dutch tradition. My group would like to have a closer look at this. Recent images of police intervention at a demonstration, although of course difficult to assess, have not increased confidence. How are the policies and the monitoring of the operational commitment secured nationwide? And how is the police responsible for this externally? In my group's view, after the operational use of force, the police must justify why this was the most appropriate way, from the point of view of always choosing de-escalation where possible: apply it or explain it. Mr. Chairman. The district attorney rarely prosecutes an officer after serious police brutality. There are an average of five fatal incidents a year, but this only leads to prosecution in sporadically. Although that is probably right, it also leads to questions. The principle of opportunity is, of course, up to the prosecution and not to the government. However, I would ask the Minister how critical stakeholders can gain a better view of dismissal decisions or dismissal policies. It would increase the legitimacy of the public prosecutor's intervention if this were understood, for example by independent and anonymised research at meta level. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this in a subsequent consultation with the D.A.? Then we are not talking about the many lighter cases in which the Public Prosecutor is not involved, but where the police handle the case internally. In my group's view, it is high time to increase the eyes and the involvement of the outside world in this. As a former judge, I think the first colleague, Mr Veldhoen, was talking about a kind of disciplinary college, an independent college, consisting of externals and agents, which evaluates as much as possible in public violence incidents, but also alleged racism. Can the Minister respond to this? Furthermore, I read in the Code of Profession police and in the oath of office nothing about keeping violence to a minimum. The professional code would be amended already in 2017. Is the Minister prepared to work towards de-escalation as a starting point in the professional code? And the final question here is: is the current procedure designed so that violence is always reported, recorded and assessed by an agent in the line? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. Police violence and racism should have nothing in common, and yet there is a clear link if large groups have the idea that racist violence is not or hardly sanctioned by the police. I started with it: incidents determine how citizens see the police and with it also the government. The same applies to those racist incidents. This image will be strengthened if the corps does not remain sufficiently diverse. But perhaps even more important: to what extent does the police themselves know whether there is institutional racism? Think, for example, of the constant retention of people with a Moroccan or Antillian appearance in the context of the patsy approach. Or what about the ban on wearing a headscarf in the executive service? My group considers this to be outdated and an obstacle to the diversity and acceptance of the police. A headscarf can stand for much more than a religious expression and can no longer be seen as a violation of neutrality. Banning a headscarf is rather a form of exclusion. Is the Minister prepared, in consultation with the police, to amend the code of conduct on this point? My group is familiar with the forthcoming new five-track policy of the police against racism. We support this and ask that the patter approach, ethnic profiling and the headscarf be explicitly included. Finally, Mr President. This law cannot be seen isolated. Improving the position of the agent in situations of violence, without giving very good shape to the legal protection of citizens and showing this in practice, increases citizens' confidence. Greater transparency and involvement of citizens in incidents is urgently needed. They are necessary, to make the police of everyone: an ally and not an opponent. Until then, this law, which should have nothing to do with it, is vulnerable to criticism that there is not enough action against racist or politically motivated police violence. I ask the Minister to return this balance to the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr President, thank you. It will be inevitable that there will be duplication in this debate, even so early in the debate, and that will probably increase a little during the day. Mr. Chairman. I should like to mention, for ease of reference, the bill on the use of violence, one of the proposals in which the cabinet has urged this Chamber in a hurry. The reasons for this were the coalition agreement. Now that argument for a group not belonging to the former coalition is not convincing, but my group's question is also whether it would be wise to conclude that proposal in the current crisis situation, which we are now in with the police. I see a combination of circumstances: the new instruction in office which alters the use of violence, the present proposal with a specific penalty exclusion ground for investigators, the continued use of police forces in this crisis, using violence, policemen who have long been chronically questioned and are therefore in the process of survival. That's a cocktail that triggers thought. There is also a wide-ranging debate on racism and discrimination in society at the moment. Since the police are part of our society, this discussion must necessarily be conducted with the police. In addition, the research published in November 2020 on the functioning of the departments of Security, Integrity and Complaints, the so-called VIKs. These investigations show that there is still a great deal of work to be done within the police to ensure uniform and careful treatment of police officers, and of high-quality research within their own organisation. The police unions are angry and want more independence in these internal procedures. This leads to unrest, including in the police organisation. Hence my question as to whether we should not end this at another time. This sum of internal and external factors makes my group very doubtful. Shouldn't we ideally do that at a time when our society and also the police themselves have returned to calmer waters, and we also know the plans of a new cabinet for how they want to deal with the police? In my group's view, this proposal is not an isolated proposal, but is inextricably linked to a broader discussion that is currently taking place in our society and also within the police. But perhaps the answer given by the Minister in the first term, which is not only limited to the legislative proposal, but also to that broad discussion, can be helpful in this respect. But, of course, in my first term, I will now deal with the legislative proposal before us and the inseparably linked instruction. If the purpose of this bill were to reduce the threshold for the use of violence by investigators or to raise the threshold for investigation and prosecution following the use of violence by investigators, then I could now stop my contribution and say with conviction that we will vote against it. But the Minister made it clear in the written reply that neither of the two objectives I mentioned could be addressed: this bill is not a licence for police violence. However, there are still many questions about the elaboration of this law, especially in conjunction with the customized instruction of office. In order to avoid further duplications, I would like to join with the questions that Mr Veldhoen and Mr Recourt have already put to me on this point, not only on the content, but also on the parliamentary involvement. Mr. Chairman. You'll just have to stand there, day after day, as a forward post of our society to guard and preserve order and security. Not for yourself, but for society: for us. Is that society sufficiently aware that that policewoman or policeman is here for us? And is that society aware of what we ask of those policemen, day in and day out? If you ask the cops themselves, they'll say no. In November 2009, the SP published an investigation that the Dutch Parliamentary Group did among policemen, entitled The Agent, which will have to do better tomorrow. More than 10,000 agents then participated in that investigation and the results of that investigation are unabatedly up-to-date. It gave and gives an important picture of how police people look at society and therefore at us. What did those cops find out in 2009? They found that society has hardened and that people have become more indecent. They found a lack of standards and values in a society in which people have become increasingly selfish and intolerant. They also found that this selfishness and intolerance apply not only to people at the bottom of society. Let's get that image out of here, too. This society has become no less harsh, less selfish and less intolerant since 2009. This society requires the same agents, who are increasingly less understanding and appreciation, to use force to protect society in cases where this is necessary, sometimes in the legitimate exercise of their profession. That is why these agents deserve confidence, but I would like to stress that trust must be earned by the police organisation as a whole, without my group trying to make the bad guys suffer. That is why, in preparing this debate, my group has also called for a response from the Minister to the social unrest that has arisen over this bill and on the instruction of the office, particularly with regard to the widespread fear that possible discrimination, racism and abuse of power are not sufficiently taken seriously. Discrimination, racism and abuse of power are under no circumstances, let me say from my group, admissible in our society and therefore not in the police or in the government in general. The Minister replied in writing that unlawful abuse of violence, discrimination, racism or abuse of power should be adequately addressed within the police organisation. But my group is very concerned about whether this is being done adequately. My group is deeply concerned about tackling discrimination, racism and abuse of power within the police organisation, and I refer to the aforementioned evaluation reports of the VIKs. The reaction of the chairman of the Dutch Police Union NPB to the evaluation of these VIKs was harsh. I quote. "It has been an uncontrolled gang for years, with the result that incompetent executives have been given plenty of room for arbitrariness and abuse of power. It is a shame that the corps has looked away all this time, while first-class colleagues were wrongly dragged through the mangel." End of quote. Was signed Jan Struijs, Chairman NPB. So that's within the organization itself. Now the Corps leadership has said that all recommendations are taken from those evaluation reports, but experience shows that saying you're going to adopt recommendations is one, and implementing two. That is why today, for example, the Security Research Council is doing a review after a year, to see what has actually happened to these recommendations or that it has only been fine words. My question to the Minister is, therefore, when will this take place? When are the police gonna get this sorted out? And when will there be an end to the differences between the units, which all draw their own plan and thereby cause great unrest, not only within their own organisation, but also in the outside world? Now it is different from unity to unity or for example expressions on social media or in closed app groups are being investigated. In addition, everything happens internally. The unrest that has caused this can not have escaped anyone's attention as a result of the app group case in Rotterdam. Even if the police are in order, as far as my group is concerned, it is a prerequisite for the understanding and trust of society. That is why I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. A number of safeguards are of great importance for the consideration of my group in the assessment of this legislative proposal. It is very important that it is always the Public Prosecutor's Office that makes the assessment of whether or not to prosecute, although I recognise the comment made by Mr Recourt. But in any case, it is at some point up to an independent, not the lead itself. In the written reply, the Minister made it clear once again that it is always up to the Public Prosecutor to consider the matter on the basis of all the facts and circumstances for which criminal offence is being prosecuted. There can be no doubt about that. For my group, however, it is also very important that the complaint procedure under Article 12 should take into account the full extent of the prosecution decision, including Article 362 of the Criminal Code, and also the decision on which criminal offence is being prosecuted. Can the Minister undertake that under the new law the provision of information to the Public Prosecutor in cases involving victims or relatives will also be very careful and that attention will be paid to explaining and discussing the choice of the Public Prosecutor between the new Article 372 Criminal Law and a Community crime with victims or relatives? I would like a commitment on this point. I had asked in the written round for a faster evaluation. The Minister replied that he could not and that he would advise against it. But I would ask the Minister to go into that again. 'Cause after three years, wouldn't we know which way it's going? Other colleagues have already spoken about this. The Minister doesn't think so. But I didn't get any justification for that. So I would like to get a more detailed explanation on that; colleagues have already asked for it. Mr. Chairman. I was surprised to hear an answer to a written question from my group. That may seem like a semantic discussion, but it's not. In the written reply, the Minister indicated that the new Article 372 Criminal Law would prefer to be prosecuted. But is that the Minister's preference or is the Minister trying to say that the Public Prosecutor's Office is expected to prefer it, based on practical experience? 'Cause it's a difference. If the Minister states that it is his own preference, he will therefore waive the independent consideration of the prosecution. So can the Minister confirm here once again that with his answers he did not intend to give a hidden order to the prosecution, but that the prosecution will really be able to make its own assessment on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, for which criminal offence is being prosecuted? In order to reach that balance, something new is being introduced to investigate the abuse of violence by an investigative officer, without having to be classified as a suspect in a criminal offence. In order to remove any possible misunderstandings about this, I have the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister share the view that the truth finding should also be at the forefront of the factual investigation? Does this new fact-finding create restrictions on the prosecution's ability to find the truth? That would feed mistrust in the outside world, which could be seen as a threshold for truth finding. Or is the only difference that in the new fact-finding investigation the investigating officer is not regarded as a suspect of a criminal offence? The Council of State also pointed to differences between fact-finding and regular investigation. According to the Advisory Section, the examination of the facts is a special legal figure. Particularly, because it is aimed at investigating the legality of abuse of violence by investigators in the performance of their duties, whereas a regular investigation is aimed precisely at clarifying a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence. But I'm concerned with the outcome of the truth finding. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. It is very important for the outside world to see how this bill is going to work out in practice. That is why my group has asked for an annual report on the number of cases in which Article 372 criminal law is charged. In the written reply, the Minister has agreed that this will be included in the annual report by the Public Prosecutor on the number of police officers prosecuted for the use of force. I thank the Minister for the commitment and I look forward to seeing how that will be implemented, because I believe that an explanatory paragraph on this point will also be appropriate. I am asking this, in particular, because there is still a great deal of uncertainty in advance as to how the culpable error of assessment regarding the follow-up of the violence instruction under Article 372 Criminal law will be implemented in practice. My group also has a few questions about the change in the instructions of office associated with this legislative proposal. As I said, I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. But my group does not understand the Minister's reasoning as to why the criteria for vulnerable groups have been removed. The Minister states "that criteria are not sufficiently clear in the light of the proposed criminalisation of violation of the violence instruction. As stated in paragraph 5 (2) of the explanatory memorandum on the instruction of duties, second tranche, it is necessary to strike the right balance between the standardisation of the instrument when the means of violence and freedom-limiting agents are allowed to be used or used and the applicability in practice. It shall be foreseeable for the official with power of violence to act or fail to commit a criminal offence." The question, however, is whether the culpable error of assessment regarding the follow-up to the violence instruction under Article 372 Criminal law does provide clarity. My group is not yet convinced that the criteria for vulnerable groups should be dropped in relation to the culpability, as part of the criminalisation under Article 372 of the criminal law, and I shall be mildly expressing myself. If the Minister states that in practice it is not always easy to determine whether someone belongs to a vulnerable group and for this reason, in the light of the criminalisation, it is not desirable to maintain the criteria and introduce them into the use criteria for other means of violence, I do not understand that. If it is not sufficiently known, will it be dealt with by not being culpable in Article 372 of the Criminal Code? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The use of police dogs requires constant attention. The broadcast of Zembla was shocking, and the findings of Jaap Timmer make it clear that there is still much to improve. Timmer's criticism that the dog is wrongly believed to be a manageable means of violence, I agree. The dog is not a machine and should not be seen and used as such, which requires caution in advance. My group therefore does not consider the arrangement in the amended instruction to be sufficient. As far as my group is concerned, this needs to be adjusted. Mr. Chairman. I come carefully to a conclusion, because I have been able to leave out some of the things that have already been reported by colleagues. We need to be careful with our detectives. There's too few of them, and they're being chronically overwhelmed. The outflow is higher than the influx, and then the exit wave due to the ageing population still needs to come. Additional capacity only comes from 2024, and that is roughly one third of the capacity that has previously been cut off. As a result of chronic over-demanding, there is already 3% to 5% allocation to occupational diseases, such as PTSD. As a result of chronic over-questioning, it is also logical for police officers to reduce the fuse. There is no time and space, we hear from agents, for their own problems, there is no time and space to actually put time and energy into a truly open culture, there is no time and space to distance from everyday practice. This can also lead to tunnel vision among policemen. That is what the outside world sees, and that is what the outside world then judges about. If we really want to change something about illegal abuse of violence, discrimination, racism or abuse of power, then we need more investigators who will have time and space to actually work on an open culture and also have time and space to distance themselves from everyday practice when it becomes too much for them. You're not gonna throw that in. This also means more resources, people, time and attention to really ask for selection in all those areas that need improvement. A lot of people are falling out now and a lot of people are falling out. Mr. Chairman. I await with interest the Minister's reply, but I repeat that my group's opinion on this bill will also depend to a large extent on the Minister's first-term response, because this bill, as I said, is not an isolated proposal, but is inextricably linked to a broader discussion that is currently taking place in our society and therefore within the police. I therefore hope that the Minister's response not only addresses this bill, but also addresses the wider discussion and provides sufficient leads to be able to look to the future with confidence, the future in which there is no place for unlawful abuse of violence, discrimination, racism or abuse of power, not in society wide, and therefore not in the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. Violence by the police is 5% to 10% of the arrests. That's about 40 times a day. On average, ten arrests a day, a civilian gets hurt. Those are numbers from police investigator Jaap Timmer of the Free University. The legislative proposal does not regulate the use of force itself, but rather the assessment of its use. The instruction of the office, a general measure of governance, regulates the use of force, but the minister says that this is happening in a separate course. There is no formal interference from parliament. I would like to say straight away that the D66 Group deeply regrets this, because it is about serious violations of citizens' fundamental rights. Therefore, as far as D66 is concerned, it is highly desirable to have a preliminary procedure for the general measures of governance that are covered by this legislative proposal. Previous speakers have already spoken about this. The proposed Article 372 of the Code of Criminal Law regulates the criminalisation when it is due to his fault that the investigating officer has violated the instruction. So the law is linked to the instruction of the office. I wonder what the police officer on the street would think. When can he use force or not? And where can he find all that? As it has been designed, it is a bit of a houdini-like construction, with the law, the instruction of office and the other general measures of governance. Unlike the citizens, the police have a monopoly of violence. Police officers are allowed to use force in some situations. Where citizens have to take a step backwards in a difficult situation, we require police officers to take a step forward. Sometimes, in risky situations, they have to decide within a few seconds whether they will use force. It is understandable that sometimes wrong choices are made, but as a co-legislator we have to look carefully at whether the rules we lay down are and can be respected by the police. After all, it is about violence used against citizens, in which their fundamental rights, such as the inviolability of the body, the right to privacy, the right to freedom and the right to life, are at stake. The bill introduces a new article, Article 372, about a criminal offence that criminalizes the police when it is due to her fault that she has not complied with the instruction, which is full of rules on the conditions under which you may use violence. The new article is better tailored to the specific police work than the general articles on, for example, murder, manslaughter or abuse. When is this debt due? If the police officer concerned made a wrong and careless assessment and therefore applied violence which was not in conformity with the instruction of violence, the Minister stated in the written explanation. It must therefore be a culpable error of assessment or carelessness. But of course you need to know exactly what happened. It begins with the fact that a police officer within the police organisation has to report that he or she has used violence against a citizen during the legitimate exercise of his or her duties. Unfortunately, however, there are examples where the police officer did not report any used violence or denied it and it did not admit it until it appeared that camera images were made of it. The program Zembla launched such an incident in November last year, with a confused Polish man present at a gas station. He was handcuffed by the police without being aggressive, and a police dog was thrown at him. That police dog bit the man in different places in his body and didn't listen to his supervisor's command. He didn't let go, but he kept biting. At first the used violence was denied, but when cameras showed up, they couldn't do that anymore. That kind of twisting of police people who have used violence undermines the public's confidence in the police, especially since there has not even been a disciplinary measure taken in the Rotterdam case or a criminal case against the policeman in question. Can the Minister state whether this was an annoying incident or whether the concealment of used violence is more common? Is the Minister prepared to have that investigated? This subject has already been discussed in the House of Representatives. The Minister said he would look into it, but when can we see a report on it? Which brings me to the bodycam. Wouldn't it be a good idea if more policemen were wearing a bodycam on the street? Today they have batteries that last a service and the images can be sent directly to the control room. Well, that could certainly explain what happened on the street, and it could exonerate the police officer. So it works both ways. The pilot bodycams in the Amsterdam unit have shown that wearing a bodycam in itself does not so much improve safety, but has an effect on the behaviour of both the citizen and the police officer. The use of the bodycam strengthens the de-escalating ability of the police officer. Police officers wearing a bodycam feel safer. The pilot also shows that less aggression and violence is used against police officers equipped with such a bodycam. That seems to me to be a win-win situation. Is the Minister willing to say that more bodycams will be available to the police? This must, of course, be done in accordance with all kinds of privacy rules. I want to say something about the role of the D.A.'s office. If a policeman or woman has used force in violation of the instruction, the prosecutor first checks whether that offence should lead to disciplinary action or criminal prosecution. I have a number of questions about that. When does the Public Prosecutor's Office choose one route or another? And what criteria are laid down? The choice of the Public Prosecutor's Office is likely to follow from the new fact-finding investigation proposed in Article 511a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. But who determines when and on the basis of what criteria such an investigation takes place? Is there a protocol for that? And if not, should this not be developed and made public in the context of the necessary transparency? The police officer who is being investigated is not a suspect but is heard as a witness. Witnesses must always tell the truth, but of course the police officer also has a right to remain silent. He doesn't have to incriminate himself. That's a right that belongs specifically to a suspect. Can the Minister explain whether this is going to be a problem in practice and how it will work? I heard that Mr Janssen from the SP has also asked all kinds of questions about this. The Public Prosecutor's Office, and not just the police, has asked for the introduction of the new Article 372 of the Criminal Code, because the Public Prosecutor's Office felt that it was too far to prosecute a police officer for a general crime, such as abuse. The Public Prosecutor's Office felt that the violation of the instruction of the office was a more appropriate option, because sometimes the Public Prosecutor's Office also needed more correction options for police officers who had gone wrong. But those remedies didn't have the D.A.'s office. In the written preparation, the Minister always replied to questions from D66: it is not intended to bring more or less cases. But of course it's not about the intention. It is about what will happen in practice. Given the reasoning that the request for this additional article also came from the Public Prosecutor's Office, there is a good chance that more prosecutions will take place. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on that. As has been said, Article 372 provides an additional opportunity for the prosecutor to prosecute a police officer, but the general crimes continue to apply where there is a serious, deliberate violation of that instruction. However, the proposed Article 372 does not give the victim the right to speak. A victim who wishes to make use of this will thus be tempted to use Article 12 Criminal proceedings by lodging a complaint to the court against the prosecution decision. Professor Ten Voorde of Leiden University therefore provides for an increase in the number of article 12 procedures. Wouldn't it therefore be better to allow the right to speak in this construction as well? How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. Will all new rules to be introduced be evaluated and, if so, within what time span? Can the question of the right to speak be taken into account? I saw the Minister's reply that until now there are only plans to evaluate the introduction of the power surge weapon by 2026 at the latest. As far as the D66 group is concerned, a broader view is desirable. I have already raised this in an interrupting debate with Mr Recourt, and I also agreed with his line of reasoning. A broader view is desirable. We believe that civil society organisations should also be involved in this. Is the Minister prepared to discuss the design of such an evaluation with the Supreme Court in good time? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of ethnic profiling, which has already been raised by other groups. The discussion was sparked by the Black Lives Matter movement. It has made it clear that it is quite common for the police to maintain or maintain people, not because they are suspected of a criminal offence on objective grounds, but because, for example, they have a migration background. In response to questions from D66 and all kinds of other parties, the Minister was right to say that ethnic profiling is unacceptable. He also said that if it does occur, action must be taken against it. National police also reject ethnic profiling, as Mrs Veldhoen made clear in her contribution. Still, it happens. It is therefore essential for the legitimacy of the police action and the support of society that the police organisation itself be diverse and inclusive. In preparation for the examination of this bill, we have also had contact with the national police. With the police the disc of five of priorities has been introduced. This is about hiring people from different backgrounds and, once they have been adopted, a safe development in the police organisation. The third is the proper monitoring of professionalism within the police organization. The fourth is the creation of a more diverse alliance from the police with other organizations. The fifth disc is of course the approach to discrimination itself. An important development within the police organisation itself, but the question is, of course, how it is applied in practice. How's that going? Can the Minister fully reflect on that? What is the relation of ethnic profiling to this bill? The NGO Control Alt Delete has investigated the number of deaths related to police action over the last five years. That was about 50. Two thirds of these deaths were people who were clearly confused, but in more than 50% of the cases they were people with a migration background. They've been able to investigate that on the basis of public sources. Based on their share of the general population, a percentage of about 12% would be obvious. My question is this. There is no evidence of ethnicity in police use, unlike in other countries. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to conduct scientific research into the relationship between police use of force and ethnicity in victims. In this context, I also welcome the Minister's commitment that, in the context of transparency, every death case will henceforth be included by the police in the annual report. Will the Minister also promise that next of kin will be given the right to inspect the deceased's file, even if it has been declared that the police have not committed a criminal offence? At present, access to the file is often not the case, but this is very important for the mourning process of the next of kin. The training and frequency of training courses for the police are important to this whole problem of ethnic profiling and so on. Now I understand that in those courses for the police the de-escalation training is actually getting out of hand, but that is actually the essence of the police work. The mouth is the best police weapon. Can the Minister assure us that de-escalation will receive adequate attention in training and training? Mr. Chairman. The new Article 372 only ensures that the instruction of the office is violated if the violence has caused injury, so if it has remained in a painful confrontation, the article does not apply, so the Minister has put forward in the written documents in response to questions from the Party for Animals. Physical violence, for example the neck clamp, is not extensively regulated in the instruction of the office. The Mitch Henriquez case makes it clear that rules for applying the neck clamp could best have been included in that instruction. Is the Minister still prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. Last week, in a letter dated 26 March, the Minister replied extensively to questions from, among others, the D66 Group on the use of force by the police and, more specifically, answered questions about the use of the firearm, the use of the police dog, the power gun and the pepper spray. Thank you for that, but I must say that we do have some questions. Violence committed by the police must comply with necessity, proportionality, subsidiarity, predictability, reasonableness and moderation, according to the Police Act, the Code of Criminal Law and the instruction of violence. That's six criteria. In addition, it must comply with the rules of the new instruction. The question is, therefore, why these criteria are not included as overarching standards in the text of the Second tranche of 26 January last year, so that every investigating officer is at least clear as to what the framework the police officer will always have to adhere to. Can the Minister promise that, at the next adjustment of the instruction, such a supplement will take place? The Minister states in his letter that the starting point is that the means of violence are not applied to vulnerable groups. One can think of children under 12 years of age, older people over 65 years of age, visibly pregnant women and confused persons. But the Minister also states, Mrs Veldhoen, that it is not entirely impossible to rule out. I think it is important for the clarity of the police officer and the public that this main rule should not be included in the text of the instruction, perhaps with a limited exception clause. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to comment on the police dog's bet. After the gun, the police dog's bet is the toughest police weapon. Broadcasts of the TV programme Zembla show that the training of police dogs involves abuses and that sometimes the dogs do not listen to the command of their escort and continue to bite. After that, they are not taken out of circulation, whereas that was originally the intention. If I look now at the criteria for the use of the amended instructions in Articles 15a and 15b, I see that the Minister replied in his letter last Friday that in the draft decision the threshold for the use of the police dog was raised to the crimes committed in prison for at least four years. But what strikes me is that it has not been included in the clause that this crime constitutes a serious violation of physical integrity or privacy, as is the case with the use of firearms. By leaving this out, the police dog can be used in theory with a shoplifter trying to avoid arrest. That's too spacious, isn't it? The D66 Group is not alone in this, because the National Ombudsman and the working group that had offered the Debite Dog report on the service dog's criteria as a means of violence to the minister's minister's predecessor had no intention of extending it in this way. Why has the criterion of the children under 12 years old, the elderly over 65 and the visibly pregnant women not to be bitten by a police dog been omitted here? These criteria have so far been applied to the use of the substance pepper spray, which is lower in ranking than the police dog, so all the reasons why this passage should be extended in Articles 15a and b. My group is, of course, considering a motion on this subject, depending on the Minister's reply. The minister writes that when training police dogs, it is not taught that the dog has to bite the neck or the face. But we've seen an instructional movie from the Rotterdam police. It shows that there is training with a police dog who jumps into the car through an open car window to bite, with the risk of bite wounds to the face and neck. Here it is avenged that there have been no service regulations for the use of the police dog since the arrival of the national police. So the question to the Minister is: is the Minister prepared to include this in the training? If I understand correctly, Mr Recourt has also spoken on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the stun gun. The chief police officer in Amsterdam, Frank Pauw, thinks it is nonsense that 17,000 police officers in the Netherlands are getting a stun gun from primary police services. By order of the police, Mr. Otto Adang has investigated that power surge weapon, the taser. He concludes that violence against policemen in the Netherlands is decreasing. The police count verbal violence, such as profaning and cursing, as violence, based on the claim that violence is increasing and that 17,000 agents should be given a power gun. But also Marnix Eysink Smeets, lecturer security experience and himself former policeman, says it is nonsense that so many policemen should get such a taser. Physical violence occurs on average once every eight years per agent. The TV program Medialogica has unraveled all that. So my question to the Minister is, why does he want 17,000 policemen to get that power-bullied weapon? Isn't that money supposed to be about 30 million? Isn't it better used for the bodycam? Mr. Chairman. Then there's a passage about complaints about the police action. It has also been mentioned by previous speakers. How often does the police organisation impose disciplinary measures against a police officer who has used violence? Can the Minister give you any figures on that? How often does the Public Prosecutor's Office find that the police organisation should actually take disciplinary action, but that the police organisation itself will not give up at home at some point? Of course, the fact that the police sometimes make mistakes is understandable, because it is human work. Estimates sometimes have to be made in a few seconds and the police obviously do not have an easy task. But it is crucial that mistakes are faced and that the organisation can learn from them. This requires an open and transparent culture in which complaints and notifications are taken seriously and whistleblowers within the police organisation are protected. Unfortunately, we do not always see this culture again. We have been in contact with the national police in preparation, which has also indicated this to us. When criticized, the ranks close, which means that rotten apples cannot be held accountable enough, while internal whistleblowers now seem to have to seek their salvation from the media. That's the reverse world, isn't it? The internal reporting culture needs to be improved and complemented by external supervision. Only then will the police become real to and from everyone, which is really the intention. The investigation of incidents by the police is largely dependent on own internal investigation by the Department of Security, Integrity and Complaints, the VIK. But such an application of violence must of course be reported. Investigation of violence in police action begins with the police officer who has to report on this himself. Unfortunately, it happens that this doesn't happen, as I said, until painful camera footage pops up. To impose disciplinary measures on our own colleagues is, of course, difficult, but there is also very little monitoring. There are great differences between how the units deal with this. Mr.Janssen of the SP also talked about this and the Public Prosecutor doesn't control this either. For complaints against the police by citizens there is a complaints committee with external members, but unfortunately only for persistent complainants who still want to fight their complaint to that committee after a round of talks and mediation. There is no similar route for internal reports or incidents. That is why D66 calls for this instrument to be strengthened. We should start working on external police supervision, as is the case in Belgium, for example. This can be done in the form of an independent committee set up specifically for this purpose and also reports to the local security triangles. This committee can then carry out its own investigations and report on them. This is relevant for research into disciplinary measures and the learning capacity of the police organisation and also for the protection of internal whistleblowers. The blue wall of silence must disappear. Key concepts here are transparency and independence. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to take initiatives in this regard. Depending on the answer, my group is considering tabling a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I should like to conclude my speech. All things considered, I conclude that the rules on police use of force are actually linked to two thoughts. On the one hand, there is a great need for clarity for police officers and also for citizens about when violence can be used. On the other hand, however, it is left to the professionalism of the police officer to apply that violence in a concrete situation. Of course, that official needs some freedom. No rule can rule out any risk of a mistake at the expense of the citizen. In order to bring both approaches together, the regulation, through the training, through the equipment, through adequate funding of the entire criminal justice chain including the police, as well as through strong control, including adequate and transparent complaint handling, can contain errors as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. This is an important subject, very relevant to society. It's caused a lot of commotion in the past. So my group looks forward with great interest to the Minister's reply on the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group. The Minister is requesting a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u31	The Minister has asked for the floor. I request that the cathedral be placed at the minister's address.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. I just got the message that someone, not in my close vicinity, but with whom I did make a work visit last Friday, was tested positively. That means I'm gonna have to get tested tomorrow, too. In the light of everything, I think it would be wise to go into quarantine on a voluntary basis. I'm talking hoarse and coughing every now and then is due to hay fever. I was tested negative recently following the infection of Mona Keijzer. The rules say, in principle, that I do not need to be quarantined and that we can continue, but I think it is wise to do so, also in the light of how social, like last week, is sometimes looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Minister. I interpret this as an order proposal on your part to suspend the debate. I'll see if the Chamber will agree. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-30-eerstekamer-3.u34	I'll suspend the meeting until after lunch.
