ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35366, Amendment to Book 2 of the Civil Code to extend the possibility of banning legal persons. I would again like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Freedom of association is a great asset, protected by the Constitution and international human rights treaties. It is one of the classical fundamental rights, the fundamental rights that protect citizens from an overly powerful government. It guarantees citizens the freedom to organise and unite themselves, without interference from the government. What happens if the government does not respect the freedom of citizens to unite, we can currently see in a number of countries, both outside and within the EU. I call Russia, Belarus, but also Poland and Hungary. There, for example, the promotion of freedom of the press, Ihbtqi rights and abortion are called anti-democratic and then organisations are banned and citizens are persecuted. The majority decided, but totally contrary to the principles of the democratic rule of law and the classical fundamental right of freedom of association. These recent developments show that we need to be careful when a government wants to restrict classical fundamental rights by appealing to defending the democratic rule of law. 'Cause that wrings. The proposal now before us makes it easier to ban legal persons because of their aims or activities, which lead or apparently threaten to threaten national security, the international legal order or the disruption of the democratic rule of law or public authority. The government makes it appear that the present proposal does not extend the possibility of banning organisations so much as substantially, but rather makes the approach more effective by clarifying the criteria, reducing the burden of proof of the public prosecutor, and also allowing the directors to be sidelined for some time in addition to the organisations. Did I get that right? Or is the bill also intended to establish a different substantive standard for banning organisations? I am also asking this question because the government's answers in the written round in this Chamber mainly raised more questions about what the government really wants to ban. In response to questions from the Forum for Democracy Group, for example, the government said: "in principle, Islamist movements are aimed at changing the democratic rule of law." And: "except for organizations with an Islamist signature, there are several right-wing extremist groups, but also groups with left-wing extremist ideas regarding their objectives in a tense relationship to the democratic rule of law." Right-wing extremists focus on one or more of the following ideas: xenophobia, hatred of foreign cultural elements and ultra-nationalism. Central to the ideology of right-wing terrorist groups is the attempt to create chaos through extreme violence, with the aim of overthrowing Western democracy and replacing it with an authoritarian system or even white dictatorship. Left-wing extremists are mainly anti-fascist extremism, resistance to Dutch asylum and foreign policy and anarcho-extremism. What does the government mean to say here? That all organisations that pursue these objectives can, or should perhaps, be seen as organisations that aim at disrupting the democratic rule of law and can, or should, therefore be prohibited on the basis of their objectives? Does the government seriously believe that anti-fascistism and opposition to the Dutch asylum and foreign policy should be seen as a potential threat to the democratic rule of law? If that is the case, it is very much a matter of protecting the classical fundamental rights of freedom of expression and freedom of association. Mr. Chairman. My group still has the necessary questions regarding the scope of the law and the practical interpretation and significance of the legal presumption that work is likely to threaten national security, international legal order, the disruption of the democratic rule of law or public authority, paragraph 2, or the deterioration of human dignity, violence or the inciting of hatred or discrimination, paragraph 3. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the government states that this legal presumption may exist, for example, if it can be demonstrated that racism or discrimination is being encouraged. This seems to indicate that the behavior has to be demonstrated, read: proven, and that the legal suspicion then sees the intention behind the behavior. Can we see that right? What rules of evidence apply to the demonstration of conduct which could lead to a presumption of law? Because we're talking about a provision in the BW we're assuming that these are the civil-law evidence rules. This means that it is not the independent truth finding by an active judge that stands first, but that the pitiful judge is bound to decide within what is claimed by the parties and whether or not it is contested. Can we see that right? What does that mean for a later assessment by the criminal court if it is faced with a prosecution for continuing activities for a prohibited organisation? Is that criminal law then obliged to follow the fact finding of civil law that led to the prohibition, or should or should the criminal court still be able to find out the truth about those facts? The other way around, the question of how criminal convictions are dealt with in civil proceedings can be asked. In civil law, a criminal conviction provides compelling evidence of the act committed. The question is whether this also applies to the intention of that act. Does, for example, a criminal conviction for inciting discrimination, or for violence from an organisation provide evidence of intent to violence or inciting discrimination? Has this made the presumption of justice irrefutable? Apart from this situation, in general terms, we still have the question of how, in civil proceedings, the presumption of a destabilizing intention can be refuted. How can counter evidence be provided? Can the government explain this on the basis of the criteria that apply to this, and perhaps some examples? In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Government states that the demonstration of conduct does not involve structural work. How are we supposed to see that? Does this law, for example, allow a legal person who asks a temporary agency not to send temporary workers with a certain ethnic background to be banned and their directors excluded from being drivers for three years? On the basis of the criteria, I would say yes. Can we see that right? Mr. Chairman. We understand from the legal treatment so far that the finding, whether or not after a legal presumption, that there is a purpose or work which may lead to a prohibition under paragraphs 2 or 3 does not have to lead to a prohibition. The judge will still have to check whether a conduct is so serious that the prohibited conduct is justified. So this test comes after proof of the behavior and determining the bad intention. Can we see that right? Have criteria been formulated for this test? Or is that entirely up to the judge? And, if that is the case, will this new law give us more clarity than we have now? Or is there going to be another one instead of one open standard? The fact that it is and will continue to be the judge responsible for assessing the seriousness of the conduct and the justification of a prohibition, which will also be examined in the context of the ECHR under Article 94 of the Constitution, is also welcomed by my group. A democratic rule of law protects the traditional fundamental rights of its citizens from far-reaching government interference and guarantees a judicial test of government intervention where necessary. Mr. Chairman. We are not yet convinced that this bill is an improvement, but we await the Government's answers to the questions asked with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. A fine contribution by Mr De Boer, who immediately takes the litmus test on a number of points in order to clarify how the general principles should now be understood in practice. That's what we're for, of course. Now that we are not discussing the initiative proposal to achieve the same naturally, it makes the debate clearer. But that does not alter the fact that I still have a number of questions for the Minister. First of all, a question about the coherence between this legislative proposal and the initiative proposal that we are not discussing today. The Minister states in his reply that both proposals are complementary. If so, what does that mean for this bill? Then we're gonna drop holes? And is this too small a Band-Aid on the wound? I would like a reply from the Minister, because this is important for us to be able to assess the effectiveness and feasibility of this bill. The SP has agreed to this proposal in the Lower House. We are also in favour of this proposal. But, of course, today's debate and the Minister's reply can still cast doubt on us. But that's what we're waiting for. This bill is not about political parties. We would then be done with that, I would say to anyone who fears that political parties will also fall within the scope of this legislative amendment. But I am asking the Minister whether he really is. Is there no way that a political party, motivated by the content of the conduct, could be included in this change? Can the Minister rule this out? I would ask that this be clarified so that we can separate fact and fiction from each other in the public debate, which will undoubtedly follow. In the reply, the Minister refers to the discussion that my SP colleague Van Nispen called for when dealing with this bill in the Lower House. He referred to the comment of the then CDA Minister of Justice Donner in 2006 that Sharia may be introduced in the Netherlands as two thirds of parliament would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u6	I have a question. I hear Mr Janssen saying that this law does not deal with political parties. That is a point that I will also raise in my first term. My analysis, as well as that of the Council of State, is that the transitional provisions say: until there is a law on political parties, wherever that may be, this bill does apply to political parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u7	As I understand it, this change does not apply to political parties and the old law currently in force continues to apply until there is a law on political parties. This change in law is not in itself about political parties. That is precisely what I want to remove, because there seems to be a lot of noise about it. I would like to be able to separate fact and fiction from each other on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u8	That's not what the Council of State says. I'll show you later. Until that law on political parties is in place, the Council of State believes that this will also apply to political parties, as defined by the Election Council. At least that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u9	Let me briefly repeat my answer. This change of law doesn't take that into account, if it's okay. I would like confirmation from the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u10	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u11	I said that my colleague Van Nispen in the Lower House referred to the remark of the then CDA Minister of Justice Donner in 2006, who said that Sharia could be introduced in the Netherlands as two thirds of parliament would like. The Minister for Legal Protection, in his reply, is replying to this, and that seems clear to me for the moment, I would add, because social views and boundaries are subject to change of time, as we have seen before in the public debate. That makes an amendment of the law as it stands today also a snapshot. We need to be aware of this on a permanent basis. We will always have to ask ourselves whether a piece of legislation that interferes with freedom of association and assembly is still being used for the purpose for which it is intended. A topical issue in this corona crisis, where restrictions on fundamental rights have temporarily been given the predicate. I note that Parliament often has to fight this temporaryity, especially with regard to the most decisive control, which we are going to discuss before the summer in relation to that temporaryity. We live in a country which has a great deal of freedom, but which also runs the risk of groups using, for example, freedom of association or freedom of assembly, or rather, misuse it in order to sabotage and manipulate society for their own gain. I mention the outlaw motorcycle gangs as the most striking example. Of course, it must be possible to take effective action against this. The proposal before us contains a number of significant changes. But no matter how clear and appealing they seem, there is also a great deal of restraint in the implementation of the SP Group. The fact that something can go to the letter doesn't mean that it has to. We have the right to association and freedom of expression and the great good that people are allowed to unite and have the freedom to express their opinion. The social debate must be conducted, however uncomfortable it may be. You can't have that debate with people who think differently if you push those people who think differently underground. Does the Minister see this risk? Convincing the social debate is preferable to banning the SP Group. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the starting point is retention with prohibition. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say a few words about implementation. I welcome the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Van Nispen, who has been busy with this bill adopted in the House of Representatives, because it is important to prevent anyone who is not actually a director or Commissioner from pulling the strings behind the scenes. It is therefore a good thing that the amendment has been accepted and that it has now been explicitly included in the application of this article that the person who has or has helped to determine the policy of the legal person is deemed to be a driver. That is good and that brings a more closing approach closer. Finally, something that may go side by side with the bill, but it does have to do with the implementation of this bill and for which we, as SP, will always continue to ask attention: the capacity of the investigation services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. The Minister keeps repeating, also in the Lower House, that there are no capacity shortages. Now we had an expert meeting here last week on the extension of the public service ban. The spokesperson of the private security industry has repeatedly tried to convince us that the private security forces have to carry out more and more police tasks. That does not match, that does not come together well, and that does not go hand in hand with the continued denial of capacity shortages by the Minister for Legal Protection. We see the police are ageing. The current deficits cannot be eliminated and deficits are going to increase alarmingly as a result of age trends. The capacity problems do indeed play a role in the public prosecutor's office and in the justice system. As far as we are concerned, quality and capacity cannot be exchanged against each other. Banning a legal person alone is not enough. Legal persons don't commit crimes. Persons use legal persons as a cover to commit crimes. If we really want to eradicate that threat to our society with root and branch, then you need enough people and resources throughout the criminal justice chain. See also the recent WODC report on the continuity and funding of police, prosecutors and justice. We are not solving that today, but it puts this bill in the perspective of what is still very much needed, and perhaps above all what is needed. And that's more than just saying yes to this bill right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Dittrich, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The subject we are discussing today, namely banning legal persons whose purpose or activity is contrary to public policy, is topical, but it is also something that has been going on for many decades. Science philosopher Karl Popper, who lived from 1902 to 1994, wrote in his book The Open Society and its enemies, just after the end of World War II, about the paradox of tolerance. Unlimited tolerance will lead to the disappearance of tolerance. The question we need to answer today is: how far can we, as co-legislator, go in banning and disbanding legal persons whose purpose or activity is contrary to public policy, given fundamental rights such as freedom of association, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, the right to privacy and other fundamental rights? Popper's vision is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. Article 17 of that Convention states that the rights and freedoms in the European Convention cannot be used to undermine the foundations of those same rights and freedoms. The ECHR acts directly in the Dutch legal order. That is a good thing, as far as the D66 group is concerned. The government's legislative proposal regulates the civil law approach and extends the scope for effective action against such legal entities. It is the exclusive competence of the Prosecutor's Office to apply to the court for a prohibition and, where appropriate, to provoke order measures until the legal person has been dissolved. The position is that our democratic rule of law must be made more resilient against radical anti-democratic forces. The bans on radical legal entities aimed at overthrowing or abolishing our democratic rule of law are extended by adapting Article 20. Earlier it has been recalled that it is about the outlaw engine gangs among other things. These are motorcycle gangs that disrupt society by intimidation, threat to local government, drug nuisance, money laundering, physical violence and numerous other criminal activities. Public order shall be infringed by those legal persons. It's a very topical subject. Two weeks ago, Het Parool wrote about the funeral of a foreman from Satutarah Motorcycle Club. I quote Het Parool: "Wasn't Satudarah forbidden? That's right. They're not allowed to manifest themselves as a club by the judge either. But, yeah, that doesn't take away the connection between those men. On Tuesday it was clear that many hundreds of men are still closely connected to the motorcycle club. The fact that the motorcycle club has been banned and disbanded since 2018 is really not noticeable today. The fact that the power of the motorcycle gangs is not broken at all proves to be clearer than ever." Another quote is: "What you saw here was a forbidden Satudarah that stood up: this was really a huge middle finger to the city." Which brings me to my first question to the Minister. How should mayors act in case the members of prohibited and dissolved legal entities continue to manifest themselves? How is the bill we are discussing today maintained? Can the Minister give examples of specific measures of order which the judge may impose? How do these measures relate to the enforcement arsenal that the mayor has at his or her disposal in the context of public policy? Article 20 has always had a broad character. That is clearly stated in the reply. Thanks to the SP amendment in the Lower House, it also applies to people who are driving forces behind that legal entity. As far as D66 is concerned, that was a significant improvement on this bill. We can therefore endorse the view of Article 20. However, I would ask the Minister to explain again why the proposed article only controls legal entities and not even less formal organisations. In the age of social media, people can group, pursue collective offences and seriously disrupt the democratic rule of law, without being a legal entity within the meaning of the Civil Code. Shouldn't it be about the purpose and the effectiveness and not so much whether there is a founding document with a notary past? Finally, Mr President. Political parties are excluded from this legislative proposal, but the interruption debate between Mr Otten and Mr Janssen already made it clear that this transitional provision makes it a bit shady. When will the bill announced that some political parties might ban be submitted? I would like to say at the outset that we must be very cautious in dealing with such a ban. We would like to discuss this with the new missionary government. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that we have asked a great many questions in the written preparation. We have received good answers, so although we await with interest the Minister's oral response, we have no further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u15	In preparation, I also thought about whether you should limit this to legal entities. My conclusion was: if you expand that, will you not find yourself in the situation that you are already in when a ban is issued? You yourself referred to Satudarah. The organization is forbidden, but then you come into a much more informal context and as a government you have to see what instruments you have. What instruments does Mr Dittrich have in mind? If the formal ban has been passed, what is to be the outcome of that on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u16	That is a very good question, even so good that we have put it ourselves in the written preparation. The Minister's answer was that, in some situations, sections of a larger context can also be regarded as, or be treated as, a legal person. In the end, it's up to the judge to judge that. The judge must, of course, have a margin of discretion. But if we limit it strictly only to a legal person, we could come home from a cold carnival. In this sense, I also understood from the Government's reply that the initiative proposal, which is wider and goes beyond legal entities, is complementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u17	I read that answer, too. I believe that the term 'functional organisations' is used there. By that it means: can't you get the whole bandage, then you can take some of it. But then you'll stay inside that legal personality. You only take an element of that, but that doesn't mean you have that connection on social media or other places where citizens just do something with each other. I think you're pretty empty-handed if you want to limit that by means of a formal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u18	Yes, but that is also the question I have for the Minister. It is also mentioned in Book 2 of the Civil Code, which deals with legal persons. This Article 20 is therefore about legal persons. That is why I am also saying a bit crazy: you should not only look at a notarial act in which a legal person is established, because it is also about what is happening on social media. If people gather there and then disrupt public order with their activities, can you see that as a legal person? The Minister said: no. But I see that there is a grey area there that might eventually have to be filled out by the judge. That is why I believe that this discussion is important for the history of justice. Judges should also know that it is not just simply looking at a deed that is past with the notary. You also have to look at how a group manifests itself and whether you could put it in the same way as a legal person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u19	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Recourt, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next item is a balancing act. On one side of the scale lies the resilience of our fragile democratic rule of law and on the other side of the scale it is about protecting the freedom to organise and make a counter-sound. This freedom, as has already been said, is enshrined in Article 8 of the Constitution, in the form of the right to association. With this law, which provides a more detailed framework for Article 8, the government states that there is currently a modest imbalance, at least that is how I have read it to the disadvantage of resilience. It proposes a correction with a number of measures. Today we have to judge whether the adoption of that law will indeed restore balance. That's precision work. Let us first look at the importance of freedom of association. This is a topical issue and should certainly not be underestimated. I quote from the NRC of 10 June: "From next month, Russia will be richer by hundreds of thousands of 'extremists'. Then the extremism label will come into force, declaring supporters of the imprisoned opposition leader Aleksej Navalny outlawed. A court in Moscow gave Navalny's anti-corruption fund, FBK, and his Foundation for the Protection of Civil Rights the feared extremism label. The extremism statement means that any Russian who is committed to democratisation, free elections and corruption, and who is associated with Navalny's movement through donations, symbols or online statements of support, is at real risk of prosecution, fines or even years of imprisonment." Mr. Chairman. It follows from the Constitution that the majority, by legal means, forbids the minority what it does allow itself... I need to read that phrase again. In any case, the Constitution must prevent the majority from holding the minority. The right to unite, not as an individual but, stronger, to act as a legal association, has always been threatening. This was already so at the time of the introduction of the first version of this fundamental right in the revolution year 1848 and this continues until today. There are still many countries where trade unions are prohibited. It all seems to be far away from the Netherlands, but the practice may be a bit too decisive in the fight against terrorism, against crime or even against journalism as a last resort. In that sense, strength is sometimes a danger. On the contrary, we must protect fundamental rights in times when there are parliamentary majorities who are not always in favour of the democratic rule of law. Therefore, the necessary containment of this classical fundamental right must always be carried out by minimal means and with maximum control. That's what the constitutionalist meant. This is demonstrated, for example, by the ban on delegation. On the other hand, the resilience. It is then a question of violating public order. Article 2:20 BW, the article governing the restriction of Article 8 Constitution, has been invoked occasionally in court over the past five years and with varying degrees of success, according to the Government. Mr. Chairman. As far as this bill further defines the public order concept, it helps legal certainty and contributes to the respective interpretation of what threats are. My group welcomes this additional element of protection. The content of the concept of public order is clarified in two different ways in the legislative proposal. The threat to national security or international legal order and the disruption of the democratic rule of law or public authority is contrary to public policy. Secondly, the concept of public order is coloured with concepts which do justify a presumption of breach of public policy, but which allow counter-proofing. It is a question of inciting or promoting violence, undermining human dignity and inciting hatred or discrimination. Following on from the Council of State, my group still has questions on this second point. Civil law is an important right of evidence. The party that has to prove is often lagging behind. A presumption of evidence shall allow the burden of proof to be transferred to the other party after a sufficiently substantiated statement. The evidence of that party, in this case the legal person who is required to dissolve, is therefore getting worse. On the other hand, in this case, the Public Prosecutor's Office has less demands for the justification of their claims. In order to weigh and understand this change in a balance between the parties, I would ask the Minister to clarify once again how, in practice, this presumption of evidence is going to differ from the usual rules of evidence that already exist, also around Article 2:20 BW. What should the Public Prosecutor's Office do less in the latter case and what should the association prove more? Very briefly, how easy will it be for the D.A.? Mr. Chairman. I can tell by the time I have to hurry. Then I'm gonna let go of what we're positive about. The Government states that part of the law consists of codification of the case law of the Supreme Court. Can the Minister explain which elements of the law concern this codification? The case law gives a diffuse picture of lower case law. My group also believes that this law is a good example of the operation of the triad. That's how it's supposed to be in the relationship between judge and legislator. Finally. In addition to clarification through codification and further definition, the government wants a little more room for manoeuvre in dealing with legal persons threatening public order. My group can follow and support this idea. Whether the right balance has been struck will be assessed by my group at the end of this debate. For this law, it does not, at least in advance, disturb the balance sheet in an unacceptable way. We are therefore looking forward to the answer and, of course, to Mr Rombouts' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mr Rombouts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mr Recourt has denied us what he is positive about. Perhaps that could be the initiative proposal that has been retained. Actually, my question was, does he know why it was stopped? We heard that it had to be stopped, but I could not figure out the real reason for it in my group in the House of Representatives. Can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u23	Maintaining it is, of course, up to the initiators, but in this text I have had a few hints that I find a number of positive things that I do not see in the initiative law. The most important thing I think is the guarantee of the judicial test in advance. It's a limitation of a classic fundamental right, and you have to leave it to the judge. This may be accelerated as is happening here, for example in case of feasibility in stock on a part, but you should not leave that to the board with an administrative, thus even less far-reaching test afterwards. Perhaps that position has also been understood by colleagues in the House of Representatives. That may well be true, but of course I am not going to discuss their considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u24	By definition, it's not on the agenda, but go ahead, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u25	Yeah, but the coherence is huge. You have understood that, and all the speakers will refer to it. So it was very unfortunate that it was stopped. Anyway, we decided to deal with this part today. I can't wait to find out what's the reason for the initiators to ask us to keep it. Does Mr Recourt know that? We didn't become that. After all, it was adopted by a large majority in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u26	Maybe I can shed a little more light on the situation. Let me say again: I am not happy with the initiative proposal. My group still has to decide, but my advice to my group would be critical...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u27	I know enough, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u28	That's good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bezaan, who speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the legislative proposal aimed at extending the scope for banning legal persons. More specifically, this concerns radical organisations whose aim is to overthrow or abolish the democratic rule of law. The legislative proposal aims to clarify what is or may be contrary to public policy in the Netherlands. In addition, this law eases the burden of proof for the public prosecutor in the prohibition and dissolution of a legal entity that disrupts society, and in demonstrating that an organisation incites hatred and violence, or poses a threat to national security. Colleagues who spoke before me have already said this. Anyway. Mr. Chairman. Let me be quite clear: the PVV Group is a strong supporter of a tough approach by such organisations. Citizens' security is paramount, and our society must be protected against radical or extremist organisations whose purpose or activities are contrary to public order. However, despite the good intentions of the bill before us, we are still a little concerned. Let me explain to you why. These concerns have to do with the fact that the newly proposed paragraph 3 of Article 20 of Book 2 BW offers quite some room for arbitrary interpretation. This article talks about: "In violation of public policy, it is suspected that it is the purpose or activity which leads or is likely to lead to the deterioration of human dignity." The problem with the PVV lies in the terminology used in the aforementioned article. It is not defined in detail, which does not, or does not, promote legal certainty. Further to this, Koordstra, Roorda and Brouwer claim in an article in the NJB that neither the history of the provision in question nor the case-law shows how the concepts of "threat to national security', "threat to international law', "distortion of the democratic rule of law' or "distortion of public authority' should be understood. The authors therefore argue that further clarification is needed in order to increase legal certainty, which is also endorsed by the Dutch Legal Committee on Human Rights, the NJCM. The explanatory memorandum should state clearly what specific activities may conflict with public policy or public security. For example, organisations know what they are up to, and it gives the judge clear guidelines, which can be subject to scrutiny. The NJCM also states that the precise consequences of an administrative ban are missing from the legislative proposal. The bill lays the ball down to the judge to give a more detailed interpretation, or to the government through a general measure of governance. However, it has been said earlier today: Article 8 of the Constitution prohibits the granting of general administrative powers, the content of which is left to the administrative bodies. In fact, therefore, the undesirable situation arises that anti-democratic legal entities are banned by undemocratic means. Does the Minister share the fear of the PVV on this point? If not, why not? And if so, what will the Minister do to ensure legal certainty? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In reply to our written question, the Minister states that the conduct of a public debate on whether or not climate change exists or peaceful action against it, or whether or not epidemics exist and the fight against them, "by the nature of the case is insufficient to assume a threat to national security within the meaning of Article 20, Book 2 of the WFD." According to the Minister, this could be different if an association radicalizes and threatens to prepare attacks to achieve these goals. The PVV Group supports this, but it fears that this is not waterproof when it comes to letting us call it 'unpleasant opinions'. Unfortunately, the political trial against Geert Wilders is a clear example of this. And yes, I know, because that has just been discussed, that political parties will not be included in this for the time being. We would like to know from the Minister when he sees radicalisation. I'd like a response from the Minister. As far as my first term is concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Nanninga, who will speak on behalf of the group of the same name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I apologise to the Minister, the colleagues in office and the President for having entered this debate a little later. The democratic rule of law must be protected as far as possible from forces that want to overthrow it. My group believes that this should be done as precisely as possible, with as little as possible infringement of our fundamental rights. An opportunity to remain spared from elements that want to overthrow our democratic rule of law and thus our way of life is a police state. In East Germany you had to wait ten years for the delivery of socialist happiness, in the form of a Trabant, but the Stasi was ruthlessly effective. What helps in a police state is that the offences do not need to be defined so sharply. Even the possession of certain books was already state-undermining. We are lucky that we in the Netherlands want to do things differently than Honecker und seine Genossen. Not only is there no police state here, but this bill, which we are debating today, is intended to define more precisely when a particular legal person should and could be banned. There is no need for large-scale state repression if the conditions for being a threat to our democratic rule of law are well and precisely defined. This legislative proposal is designed to define it even more clearly than before, and that is what my group considers to be beneficial. Having said that, we do have some questions for the Minister. The explanatory statement mentions the importance of pluralism of behaviour and statements as a characteristic of a democratic rule of law. My group wholeheartedly supports this, but an organisation that does not endorse this is, for example, an Antifa club. According to this organization, even D66 is pretty much a fascist club. Persons and organisations that have been identified as wrong by this infallible inquisition of Antifa can therefore be systematically confronted with intimidation, threats and so on. Examples too over, year in, year out. But such an organization, although unmistakably a whole, including dress code, logos, cries, is not a legal entity. There is no head office, there is no formal membership. Official Dittrich also pointed to organisations that do not have a notary's founding act, but do pursue anti-democratic goals. The same can be said of Ut Tagrir, the Islamic organization banned in Germany, which seeks a caliphate instead of democracy, but very cleverly adds that they want to achieve it without violence. In other words, antidemocratic, but not specifically or not openly violent in this case. Does the Minister agree that such an organisation is therefore a threat to the democratic rule of law and that it can be addressed under this proposal? We would also like to hear, among other things, what the Minister thinks of hate speech as a threat to public order and the democratic rule of law. Hate speech is explicitly mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, although in the context of European law, but it also has implications for our national legislation. Could the Minister give concrete examples of hate speech, preferably in case law, which could lead to prosecution on the basis of this bill, if adopted? We need that, as an illustration. We join the SP: what about banning political parties? In the explanatory statement we read that "it is reasonable that, if the said law is enacted, political parties should be excluded from the proposed amendment of Article 2:20 of the Civil Code." Why is this interrupting? How will this be completed? We would like a clear answer to this. So far, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Then I give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are only dealing with the legislative proposal Expanding possibilities for banning legal entities. The starting point of this proposal is to be able to act more effectively against organisations that can disrupt public order and undermine democracy. My group does not take into account the proposal for an own-initiative report to be discussed, which envisages an administrative ban on undermining organisations, except for a single question in response to the Minister's replies in the reply. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is essential to protect our rule of law from unwanted interference or undermining, whether from outside or from within. The Minister states that this bill stems from the ambition to make the Dutch rule of law more resilient. Abuse of our fundamental rights and freedoms, which undermines the Dutch democratic rule of law, also considers 50PLUS totally undesirable. Negative influence from non-free, undemocratic countries or organisations that can have an undesirable effect on the functioning of our rule of law must be avoided. This bill could contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that my group agrees with the proposed amendment to Book 2 of the Civil Code, a number of questions remain. If the starting point of this bill is to strengthen the resilience of our democracy, the 50PLUS is not yet clear to what extent, for example, motor clubs or paedophile associations, despite perhaps evident criminal activities that take place there, threaten the resilience of Dutch democracy. Should members of such associations commit criminal offences, they should be prosecuted and tried. That is why my group would like to hear from the Minister whether, and if so why, these groups will also fall under the heading of the legislative amendment. How does this relate to the qualification of "bearable democracy"? Does this mean that any authority-abiding legal person will by definition be referred to as a clear anti-democratic organisation and can therefore be prohibited? I'd like an answer. Or is this change of law aimed in particular at formally established movements aimed at changing our democratic rule of law, with the aim of destroying it? What exactly does the Minister mean by 'radical democratic forces'? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the reply of 26 January last, the Minister states that the proposed extension of the civil ban in Article 20, Book 2, which is aimed only at legal persons, and the administrative ban proposed by the initiators, which is aimed at any organisation or independent parts of it, are complementary and non-exchangeable. So in his view, both legislative proposals are necessary to achieve the required goal, a more resilient democracy. I'd like a confirmation if that's right. This statement states that, after adoption, this legislative proposal will have a more effective and faster effect in practice than the own-initiative proposal to be dealt with. Can the Minister explain this further? Mr. Chairman. An additional effect and an important advantage is that, following a prohibition, a former director of such a legal person cannot simply re-establish an organisation or switch to another legal person. Pursuant to Article 20a (1) of the WFD, this also applies to former policy-makers who were part of the prohibited legal entity. But how does registration of these policy staff take place? Names of directors of legal entities are easy to find out from the Chambers of Commerce, but of course those of policy makers are not. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the concept of "the purpose" and "the activity" of the legal person. Both, as argued by the Minister in the reply, must be interpreted broadly. The aim is not only to derive from the statutory objectives, but also to give details of the minutes, meeting documents or websites. An activity is always a matter of a structural or systematic nature. But it also includes the occurrence of one serious incident. It is up to the court to further define the concept of "activity," as follows from the Minister's reply. My group wonders why the scope of the phrase 'activity' is so broad. Why is the legal text itself not expressing what is meant by this? It is now being introduced as an open standard with the risk that legal uncertainty or inequality may arise about its implementation. The 2018 Annual Report of the Council of State has already pointed out the consequences of far too often using open standards in legislation and its implications for legal guarantees and values. I would like a reply from the Minister as to why he does not specify the term "activity" in this bill. Mr. Chairman. From what has been said, it will not be surprising that my group will vote in favour of this proposal. 50PLUS believes that legal persons whose aim is to undermine or overthrow our democratic rule of law should be prohibited after judicial review. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I sometimes thought I was in college. There are currently three legislative proposals in procedure, one of which is on the agenda today, which seek to tackle the undermining crime. If you follow the written preparation, sometimes the suggestion is raised as if in practice you can choose from a criminal, civil or administrative approach on purely theoretical grounds. One of my colleagues suggested that we should not wait for the case law of the Supreme Court. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we must pay careful attention here to the legal quality of what is in store. We must not lose sight of the urgency and seriousness of what the legislation is trying to regulate. That is why it is more than a pity that today we cannot deal with the initiative proposal for the Administrative Ban Act undermining organisations. Together with today's legislative proposal, this proposal has been ready for plenary debate since March. Our group was very pleased that the coalition agreement allowed room for both the proposal of the initiators, led by Mrs Kuiken of the Labour Party and the government proposal. Great cooperation between government and parliament! Too bad we have to let go of this link now, but the urgency of going ahead with one of the legislative proposals requires us to do so. We expect to be able to deal with the initiative proposal immediately after the recess, because I believe that the discussion between Mr Recourt and Mrs Kuik should be taken out of the atmosphere of the political groups and discussed in plenary. Undermining has rightly received more political and administrative attention in recent years. Since last week, the Bill strengthens criminal approach undermining crime in the Eerste Kamer, with the aim, among other things, of punishing facilitating crime more severely. There may be a relationship with the proposals I have already mentioned, but this bill is mainly concerned with offences committed by individuals who may be members of an undermining organisation. Today it is mainly about those organisations themselves. The proposed amendment focuses on all legal persons, with the exception of political parties. As an example, I had in mind criminal motorcycle gangs as an example; gangs that cause a lot of nuisance in public space, commit brutality, facilitate serious crime. I have already experienced the seriousness and urgency of this in my administrative practice, not only almost literally as mayor, but also as chairman of the National Strategic Consultation integrated approach Outlaw Motorcycle Gangs. In view of today's treatment, the National Strategic Consultation has once again brought the seriousness and urgency to our attention. I have been able to observe from that position how much effort police and prosecutors had to put into the careful construction of comprehensive files in the civil justice process, and then have to wait months for the court to ban it. And then the frustration if these forbidden gangs can continue their activities for years if the stages of appeal and possible cassation at the Supreme Court have not been completed. I will take this experience with me to this debate, a debate on a fundamental subject. Classical fundamental rights weigh heavily and can only be reduced with great restraint and care. The VVD Group is also well aware of this. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the present legislative proposal, I would like to mention the situation, and Mr Dittrich referred to it when there is such a ban on the left or right. We need more than a ban. Motorclub Satudarah has been prohibited until the Supreme Court, members are no longer allowed to meet, the wearing of colors is not allowed. However, two weeks ago, at the funeral of a former president of that former club in Amsterdam, even in an era of strict corona rules, another intimidating manifestation was held in public space where some 700 bikers were present. Can the Minister indicate how local authorities could have prevented this atmosphere of inviolability created by a prohibited organisation? In addition to the traditional fundamental rights as a right of association, I believe that we should also pay attention in this debate to the sense of justice of other citizens. Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to this debate, the question was whether to choose between the administrative ban on the one hand and the acceleration of the civil process on the other. We would like to agree with the Minister and the initiators of the administrative ban that such a choice is not necessary, and that both routes can very well co-exist. We are therefore in favour of the government's proposal today to amend Article 2:20 of the Civil Code in such a way that it allows for a ban on legal persons acting in violation of public policy. We see as the point of profit of this change, among other things, reducing the burden of proof, increasing the penalty level and making it possible to use special means of investigation to prevent the continuation of these prohibited organisations. As regards the speed of proceedings, the court may, on the basis of this prohibition, order certain measures to be taken or to refrain from conduct until the civil-law prohibition has become final. That also appeals to us. The route at the court itself is expected to be even longer in this prohibition than the route of the administrative ban. Can the Minister go into that timeline again? Mr President, in summary. We see the proposal to extend the instruments to radical organisations whose aim is to overthrow or abolish the democratic rule of law as a good step. With this we also have an instrument to tackle serious nuisance in public space and serious gang crime. In doing so, we realise that we are not here to accept this bill. In our view, the comprehensive approach of undermining organisations, i.e. criminal, civil, fiscal and administrative, should be continued. We would also like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u36	Thank you to Mr Meijer on behalf of his party for Freedom and Democracy. Fortunately, I heard the colleague say that the restriction of classical fundamental rights must be minimal. The current legislative proposal has a limitation and the initiative proposal has a greater limitation. Can Mr Meijer tell us where the hole is still to be filled? Can he indicate what this law does not do and where practice leaves a gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u37	I would have liked to debate both legislative proposals today. Partly on your initiative, one of these legislative proposals has been removed from the agenda, and now you are asking me to make a comparison and yet to make that link. That's special to me. Let me say that one of the reasons why it is good that both legislative proposals are in procedure is that there is more speed with an administrative ban. I told you about my experiences with waiting for appeals and so on before it was enforceable. In particular, I asked the Minister to deal with this aspect of speed. That's a point that weighs. I think it would be very strange to go further into the difference between the two legislative proposals, since it is not on the agenda and the President would correct me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u38	You're absolutely right. I don't want you-baking to find out who started it. My question was different: what does this law not do? I understand from the answer that it may be possible that the pace is not enough and it is taking too long. How does Mr Meijer appreciate the possibility of the feasibility in stock of the ban on the one hand and the possibility of an administrative route on the other, in which the administrative judge would say in an interim action: wait until I have given a judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u39	I'm responding to what's ahead and not like-dan situations. I think there are clear improvements to this. I believe that there are also clear improvements in other sections. I have also indicated that only a ban is not enough to deal with these issues. There are many other trajectories. The ban now before us also has its administrative safeguards. I'm gonna let that go, and I don't appreciate it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Democracy is tolerant to everyone, including the untolerant," says Professor George van den Bergh in 1936 in a lecture that was republished in 2015. Van den Bergh was a member of parliament for the SDAP and later chairman of the PvdA Scientific Bureau. I saw that during the Second Chamber proceedings he was regularly referred to. But there are limits to tolerance. With the legislative proposal before us, we are discussing the extent to which tolerance towards intolerant people reaches in a resilient democracy; an exciting issue. The SGP considers it important that effective action can be taken against organisations that systematically seek to undermine the rule of law. At the same time, my group has some questions to the Minister about how this is done under the bill. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the public order concept, the prosecution may decide to proceed to prosecution. I note that the present legislative proposal gives more direction to the concept of 'public order' than it was previously, but that this concept is still widely understood, especially now that organisations can be tackled not only because of their effectiveness but also because of their purpose. Interventions listen closely, because it affects the fundamental rights of our democracy. I ask the Minister whether the public order concept is really sufficiently specified. Is there, indeed, sufficient safeguards to ensure that action cannot and cannot be taken too lightly? Mr. Chairman. The explanatory memorandum mentions extremist organisations which are eligible for a ban. Not so long ago, I read in the AIVD's annual report that there are threats to our rule of law, threats from outside and threats from within. These threats must be taken very seriously. This bill contributes to its approach. In the same report, however, the AIVD warns against the right-wing extremist idea, which it calls in one breath with conservative-Christian ideas. The AIVD is thinking of "classical ideas about the relationship between men and women, in which father is the head of the family and the income collects and mother takes care of the household and the children." And further, "wanting to preserve the Christian holidays." Why don't you just frown the eyebrows? For what you can all find of these views, they are not, of course, right-wing extremist, let alone rule of law-abiding thoughts in themselves. My wife also chose full-time for the family and for the education of the children, when we were allowed to have them. I can assure you that this task has a lot more to do and a lot more impact on society than my membership of the First Chamber. But this aside. In any case, this has nothing to do with right-wing extremist thinking. Yet this is called by the AIVD. Also, the bill does not exclude religious organisations or churches from qualifying for a ban. AIVD-boss Akerboom brushed away those comments later, but it has been said for a while. That is why the question: can the Minister indicate whether religious organisations and churches should be afraid by this bill, on the left, on the right or in the future, of unpleasant steps by the government? For Christians, the Bible is decisive for many views and this may be at odds with what the majority of our society thinks. Can the Minister reassure us and indicate whether this bill will ensure that minority opinions will soon be regarded as deviant or dangerous and fall within the scope of this bill? Isn't that a greater risk now that the concept of public order is a relatively wide-ranging concept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall then give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group, but only after I give Mr Recourt the opportunity to interrupt Mr Van Dijk's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u43	I hope it's a question of the familiar way, but I think he's important enough to ask. You have it very clearly, and I understand that from your background about Christians, but I assume you mean all faiths by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u44	It is characteristic of the rule of law that there is respect for minorities and that there is room for them. That is also characteristic of tolerance. You allow things that you could change, but you don't do it because you tolerate them. This is characteristic of the rule of law. We keep it up for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u45	Thank you. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. "Unlimited tolerance will lead to the disappearance of tolerance. If we are unlimitedly tolerant, even to those who are intolerant themselves, if we are not prepared to defend a tolerant society against the attacks of the intolerant fellow man, then the tolerant man will perish, and with him the tolerance." That's what the well-known philosopher Karl Popper put in his book The Open Society and Its Enemies from 1945. This has since become known as the tolerance paradox of Popper. Mr. Chairman. This quote by Popper was the first thing I had to think about when dealing with this bill of extension possibilities for banning legal persons. Dutch society has been extremely hardened in recent decades. The risks of radicalisation in religions, but also in politics, have increased considerably and undermine our famous Dutch tolerance. The current Article 2:20 BW was for a long time a more or less dead letter which was applied little in practice, partly because of the rather vague and multi-interpretable concept of "conflict with public order." The current bill is therefore a necessary supplement to Article 20 in Book 2 BW. It represents a significant improvement in the fight against radical anti-democratic organisations. It also implements the motion, which has been widely supported over time, which considers that in a resilient democracy there is no room for groups who want to use the democratic rule of law to overthrow or abolish that same order. There is now a multitude of associations that should be addressed, ranging from criminal motorcycle gangs to secondary institutions of certain political parties. The legal instruments for doing so are not adequate and not sufficient. That's why this bill doesn't come a day early. At the same time, it is of course crucial that this can only be done in compliance with Article 8 of the Constitution, the freedom of association, and not in any other way than after the intervention of the courts. Situations in which directors are going to ban an association on their own for a while therefore consider our group undesirable and contrary to the Constitution. In administrative bans for specific groups, as proposed by Mr Kuik's initiative law, our group therefore sees no good. That is a very serious legal issue. This is micromanagement for a specific target group, namely motor clubs where lawlessness prevails. With the intended adaptation of Article 20, Book 2, the initiative proposal is Chicken c.s. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it has become superfluous. This problem can also be tackled perfectly through Article 20 and in conjunction with the amendments to the Code of Criminal Law that we are discussing today. This is backed up by judicial safeguards and therefore provides for better legal protection. That is what I am saying to this Minister of Justice. The Council of State has more or less reached the same verdict and calls on the government not to hide behind the prerogatives of the initiators but to take a clear position on the coherence of these legislative proposals. We would therefore like to hear a clear answer from the Minister on this issue. We therefore call on the initiators of the Administrative Ban Act undermining organisations, led by Ms. Kuik of the PvdA, to repeal their unnecessary initiative law. The amendment to Article 20 of Book 2 BW, combined with the adjustment in criminal law, is more than sufficient to achieve that effect. This also provides careful legal protection through the courts. The chicken initiative proposal cannot pass that test and is therefore superfluous. In any event, we will not support Mrs Kikkie's own-initiative proposal, should it be discussed here, for the above reasons. Mr. Chairman. As far as our group is concerned, the tightening up of Article 20, Book 2 is absolutely essential. Worldwide, but certainly also in the Netherlands, in recent years we have seen the worrying rise of increasingly radical groups. The radical violence that undermines the democratic rule of law in the Netherlands in the past came mainly from left-wing extremist corner, with attacks on Secretary of State for Refugees Kosto by RaRa activists, the murder of Pim Fortuyn by a radicalized animal activist, violent squatters, and the burning of Makro sites and Shell pumps, to name but a few. But the danger to the rule of law now comes mainly from intolerant, radicalised extreme right-wing groups, especially young people. There has been an enormous radicalisation online in recent years, especially among young men who adhere to the so-called alt-right thinking, a sectarian-racist idea that has also become considerably less innocent in recent years and has already led to attacks by radicalised loners with many deaths, for example in Canada, the US, Germany and New Zealand. The AIVD also recognises this increasing danger in its last annual report. In our neighbouring Germany there is the so-called Bundesverfassungsschutz, a service set up in 1950 by the Allies after Fascism was defeated, in order to prevent a repetition of the rise of the Nazis as in the 1930s and to nip them in the bud. But the Bundesverfassungsschutz also oversees left-wing extremistism, Islamic extremism and also cults and sects. It was recently announced that the Bundesverfassungsschutz will be able to carry out secret infiltrations on radical elements of the AfD, an initial Eurocritical party increasingly hit by extreme right-wing elements. Unfortunately, we also see this pattern in the Netherlands in a particular political party, where intimidations and the blackmailing of political opponents in all kinds of ways sometimes seem to have become almost the main goal, including with the help of a coordinated army of anonymous tweitter roles. Our question to the Minister is therefore whether the Dutch security services currently have sufficient opportunities to infiltrate Dutch right-wing radical groups and political movements. The legislative proposal is now in fact a vacuum for political parties, pending the law on political parties and their secondary institutions, i.e. youth organisations and scientific institutes of political parties. The Minister, in his written reply, makes this point somewhat vague and defends the new law on political parties. In the light of the above, our group does not fully understand why political parties should now be excluded, pending that law on political parties. When will the law on political parties come into force and how will the minister use that law to tackle this rapidly radicalising threat? Our group welcomes the approach adopted in the legislative proposal. Indeed, a personalised approach has been adopted whereby those involved in the prohibited legal person, statutory or factually policy-making director, may be subject to a civil administrative ban of at least three years. At the same time, an amendment is made to the Penal Code, which criminalises the violation of this prohibition, by supplementing Article 184a of the Criminal Code. Last year we saw that there were many excesses in anti-Semitism and racism in the youth organisation of the Forum for Democracy. Finally, it led to the formation of the Nanninga Group in this House, after even the members of the Nanninga Group, more than one and a half years after my loud and clear public warning about this radicalisation, became overwhelmed and split off from the Forum for Democracy. The JA21 MEP Rob Rooken, part of the same party as the Nanninga Group, even reported in November 2020, as director of FvD, in an interview in De Telegraaf that criminal cases have occurred and that he reported against board members of the JFvD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u47	Can I just... We're doing a certain courtesy here. We are not attacking people who are not here, because they cannot defend themselves. Commenting on each other as political parties is not on the agenda either, especially as far as you do. I would ask you to refrain from doing so, to focus on the bill before us and not to attack people who are not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u48	This is indeed very relevant to this bill. It is a violation of the democratic rule of law. It is now being outlined as if it is about motorcycle gangs, but it is more about the criminal law aspect. It is true that we are dealing here with matters which can break into our democratic rule of law. As far as our group is concerned, therefore, there will be an exception for secondary institutions of political parties and the prosecution will start investigating the issue that I have just raised, because this poses a serious threat to our democratic legal order. As far as our group is concerned, this law can therefore be amended and a solution has to be found for the vacuum of the political parties and the secondary institutions, so that they are not left out. That is precisely the main purpose of this law. We would therefore advise the Public Prosecutor to make rapid use of this and to examine the unnamed youth organisation. The public prosecutor may, if he wishes, join our group for further information on the nature of the threat to our democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that our group is in principle in favour of this proposal. We therefore look forward to the discussion with the Minister in the second term with great interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are debating a legislative proposal to extend the scope for restricting a fundamental right. Now I had planned to look through the Knight's Room and ask you, ladies and gentlemen, half-memory, how are you? But then you are confronted again with the fact that as an eleventh speaker you know how things are going. That is a good thing in itself, because I can see that you are also giving a fundamental character to this debate because of that notion. That reassures me and that's nice to see. Our former colleague, Professor Koekkoek, wrote very nicely: fundamental rights regulate the law. A classical fundamental right such as freedom of association, enshrined in Article 8 of the Constitution, with a counterpart in Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, also has the function of a buffer against public intervention. It forces the government to abstain in principle. But at the same time, fundamental rights are not absolute. I would like to quote Koekkoek once again: unless these fundamental rights operate within a legal system and because that legal system also takes into account the possibility that fundamental rights may also be misused or used improperly, restrictions are allowed. In a ruling of 2016, in the case following the prohibition of a French club of football supporters, the European Court of Human Rights considered that associations play an essential role in a pluralistic democratic rule of law. Any restriction on freedom of association must therefore, as far as the ECHR is concerned, be really necessary in a democratic society. In my group's view, this high standard therefore requires a high threshold for any restriction and adequate legal safeguards, even when it comes to organisations that we, yes, would prefer to see banned today rather than tomorrow, such as criminal motorcycle gangs and other undermining organisations that manifest themselves as cultures of lawlessness. Even when dealing with such organisations, a self-respecting rule of law does not give any effect to constitutional wine. The legislative proposal before us is in line with the existing standardisation of the prohibition under Article 2:20 BW, a procedure characterised by a crystal clear primate of the magistrate. It is the standing magistrate who can make a request and it is the sitting magistrate who decides upon it, after weighing all interests and after hearing all those involved, who can also provide adequate legal protection. My group welcomes the fact that the proposal builds on this because, as the Minister once said in his written reply, this process is indeed 'an important legal correction factor, including the necessity and proportionality of the measure'. I would say that it is a fine line from the Christian Union. Our basic attitude towards the legislative proposal is therefore positive. Mr. Chairman. An obvious failure of the existing procedure is the long lead time. The present bill fixes part of that defect by creating the possibility of declaring the prohibition enforceable in stock. The legal effects will then immediately come into effect, even if the prohibited organisation brings an appeal. As far as we are concerned, the fact that the feasibility in stock will apply to the prohibition, but not to the dissolution, is a good balance. The dissolution is irreversible. However, the acceleration introduced by this legislative proposal is particularly marked by the route following the court's decision to prohibit it, while the route preceding it is also quite time-consuming. What possibilities does the Minister see at that stage, i.e. for the first judicial decision? In the reply he gave a few words on the possibility of a provisional application when submitting an application for a declaration of prohibition. Is that a real possibility as far as the Minister is concerned? If so, would he like to clarify that possibility here? And is the Minister prepared to discuss with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Council of Justice about speeding up that first stage and perhaps coming up with additional legislation? I'd like a commitment on that point. Mr. Chairman. Continuing the activity of an irrevocablely prohibited legal person shall be punishable. The requirement of irrevocableity is maintained in the legislative proposal, but the proposal does allow the court to order the organisation or certain persons to take certain measures or to refrain from conduct. The violation of that order shall also be punishable. My group assumes that such a court order will have to be linked to the facts and circumstances that led to the prohibition. Can the Minister confirm that? In this context, I am still curious as to how the Minister thinks that criminal proceedings should be dealt with against people who have continued or acted against the activities of a prohibited organisation in violation of a court order if that declaration does not ultimately stand up on appeal or in cassation. The proposed new paragraph 3 of Article 2:20 BW raises critical questions for my group. That provision contains a presumption of justice, whether or not there is a threat of degradation of human dignity, violence or inciting hatred or discrimination. This, in our opinion, goes a lot further than the current paragraph 1 and the new paragraph 2, whereas the justification is not excessive and, in my group's view, is not very concrete. An important question in this connection is whether there should be a structural pattern or whether there should be a systematic practice of de facto conduct which, moreover, is in fact contrary to public policy, before recourse can be made to this presumption of law. In more or less similar terms, the Council of State already asked the Minister, but in his response the Minister took a very short turn. He said, I quote, 'then it will have to be shown that there is violence, for example, and that this can be attributed to the legal person; with the proven violence, the conflict with public policy and proportionality of the declaration of prohibition has been established'. But that is not and should not be the portal of prohibition. I would like a comment on this and a more detailed explanation. Moreover, in the interests of feasibility and enforcement in legal practice, I would urge the Minister not to confine himself to the example of violence, but to illustrate with a broader palette what this legal presumption is like when it comes to, for example, a threat to human dignity or a threat of inciting hatred or discrimination. Finally, Mr President. The Constitution of 1848 has already been mentioned. But the fundamental right of freedom of association has older papers, because in the Batavian State Order of 1798 it already existed, albeit quite frankly, "for mutual information, for reviving patriotism and for a closer commitment to the State Order." My group welcomes the fact that, at the heart of this proposal, it also shows close constitutional commitment, and looks forward to the points where concerns or lack of clarity have been addressed by the Minister with interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u51	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. I call Mr Rombouts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. Over the past few weeks, the Binnenhof has often been concerned with counterpower. Today it is about the power to stop, the ability of the government to stop, stop and effectively deter activities that are contrary to public order and disrupt or can disrupt our Dutch society. A self-respecting rule of law cannot be enough to establish sound basic principles, to formulate strict rules and to introduce clear prohibitions, but also to maintain them effectively and decisively. Mr. Chairman. Let this be just the point on which the Council of State expressed doubts in its opinion on the legislative proposal we are discussing today: 'The added value of this proposal depends on whether in concrete cases this can actually lead to a faster and more effective action against the continuation of the activities of the prohibited legal entities and their directors'. The Council advised the government to amend the bill and the explanatory memorandum and to express its views on the consistency with the initiative proposal 35079, which introduces an administrative ban on undermining organisations. The latter proposal has now been retained by the initiators. That raises the question of whether there might be a delay. Is it the serious criticism of the Council of State that has deterred the successors of the original initiators on further consideration, despite the fact that the majority in the House of Representatives has now accepted this proposal? My text said that we should be guessing at the answer for the time being, but Mr Recourt took us a little out of that dream. My group could understand this, but it is difficult to accept it. We can understand it, because neither the Lower House nor we in the First Chamber can lightly ignore the observation of the Council of State that an administrative ban as proposed in the initiative proposal is contrary to the Constitution. The Council understands the intention of the initiators to act more quickly, but recommends that the route should be to adjust the existing procedure laid down in Article 2 (20) of the Civil Code and to maintain prior judicial review rather than delegation to an administrative body, in this case the Minister of Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. I said that my group has difficulty accepting that such an administrative ban might not be introduced, because in particular motorcycle gangs are a major problem, especially if they systematically commit offences which do not shy away from violence, threats, extortion and intimidation or, more strongly, belong to the culture of association. This outlaw culture, this culture of lawlessness, requires not only a vigorous but also a decisive response from the government. This is what mayors, police and prosecutors have been calling for for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u53	Mr Rombouts talks about motorcycle gangs all the time. I understand that, because we shouldn't accept lawlessness. But why can't it be dealt with through ordinary criminal law? Why, according to Mr Rombouts, is there still a need for this initiative law? You were talking about extortion, threat, and so on. These are, of course, all crimes that can be dealt with perfectly through the Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u54	Mr Meijer of the VVD has also pointed out that the practice in our domestic administration over the past few years, decades, has shown that criminal law alone is not enough. Sometimes you need to be able to take administrative measures to stop something today, stop it, stop it quickly. Two things are at stake: not only effective, but also fast. I do not understand why the honourable Member has already said to Mr Otten in advance that he is not waiting for this initiative proposal, while we all know that the procedures under civil law and criminal law may take a very long time. The undesirable activities can sometimes continue for months or years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u55	I know it can take a long time in criminal law, but you're gonna have to do something about it. That is what we have been advocating for a long time. For example, you could argue in favour of introducing the principle of legality, as in Germany, where the prosecution should in principle prosecute, unless it is justified why this should not be done. Here it is the other way around: very much is not prosecuted, which has created a kind of demotivation throughout that chain. Mr Rombouts says: we will solve this with an administrative solution, which does not involve a judge. That's our point. We also want to tackle the motorcycle gangs...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u56	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u57	... but then it has to go through the D.A.'s office and it needs to be stepped up criminally. Then we should not brush Article 8 of the Constitution with an administrative solution, apart from the fact that I do not think the motorcycle gangs are going to visit the notary first to create an association and create statutes. They'll probably do that purely as a loose sand. In this respect, I do not think that the Civil Code will help, but I think that criminal law is the way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u58	I understand this is a question. I believe that Mr Recourt's action to urge colleagues across the street to postpone the examination of this bill is motivated by this conflict with the Constitution. That is also the issue you are raising. We too, as I have already said, do not want to get over it lightly. I'm not allowed to. Actually, I can't. Yeah, we can still do it, but we shouldn't actually do it on the basis of our parliamentary responsibility as the First Chamber. That's gonna weigh heavily for me in the future, if we get that bill here. But you interrupted me. That is not a problem at all, but at the end of my speech I am going to put a number of questions to the Minister. How can you, as a government, possibly fix through civil law and criminal law what that little debate between Recourt and I was about? How can you supplement where the regulation that is on the agenda today is inadequate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u59	I was just going through the words of Mr Rombouts... On the one hand, he quoted the opinion of the Council of State on the initiative proposal and the administrative approach, which was very critical and talked about the violation of fundamental rights. One sentence later he said: we need that administrative ban and I can't wait until we deal with it here. I didn't see those two go together that easily, so to speak. How does Mr Rombouts stand, exactly what is the CDA's position? We're not handling that today, so I can imagine it coming later. But you will understand that that caused my eyebrows to frown for a moment and that the opinion of the Council of State and the insistence on "we cannot wait for that law to come here and we are going to take the administrative approach without judicial review" I do not understand "can put it into effect" from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u60	I fully understand Mrs De Boer. I think I've tried, but in my own way, to visualize that same tension. We cannot deal lightly with this criticism from the Council of State. On the other hand, however, there is an absolute administrative need, expressed for years by mayors and other authorities such as the police and prosecutors, to be able to act more decisively and more quickly with administrative measures, which, of course, must also be reviewed, but with which you can stop it. In any case, in my administrative practice, I have experienced very often that there is no adequate resources. In recent years, systematic efforts have been made to provide administrative bodies, Minister, Mayors and others, with these resources, but there is no administrative ban as necessary in the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u61	Does Mr Rombouts agree with me that this is at the heart of what classical fundamental rights are all about? That you have a government that is keen to intervene decisively, but that the citizens should be protected from it? Of course, we can understand that need from the administration, but I think it is precisely our job to look at the fundamental rights of citizens. Just when the administration wants to intervene decisively, the alarm bells must go off: hey, what about fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u62	Once again, I fully understand what you are saying, but I would like to put the other side of the scale in the picture. It's not about those drivers who want anything. It's about drivers who want something to protect civilians. GroenLinks, I suppose, will also be interested in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u63	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u64	Mr President, I shall continue. Where exactly was I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u65	One minute to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u66	It also fits in with the broad offensive against undermining launched by this cabinet. In previous debates, my group has called on the government to speak of a delta plan in this context, because it expresses the fact that this is a long-term process that extends beyond these and the subsequent cabinet periods. Mr. Chairman. I will respond to you by skipping a paragraph and just asking questions to the Minister. How does this cabinet view the initiative proposal to introduce an administrative ban on undermining associations? Does the cabinet consider this instrument to be a welcome addition to civil and criminal resources from its own proposal? Or does the cabinet find such an administrative ban undesirable, or even unnecessary? If so, how can we reconcile this with the broader offensive against undermining crime? And does the government share the view of the CDA Group that its proposals that are before us today are a step in the right direction, but that judicial review is too slow, and therefore not really effective, in the fight against serious and organised crime of motorcycle gangs? Finally. Assuming that the initiative proposal is withdrawn, what does the cabinet think should be done to speed up the ban on undermining organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u68	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35366, Amendment to Book 2 of the Civil Code, in order to extend the possibility of banning legal persons. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing an important proposal, which deals with the rule of law, our fundamental rights and the possibility of banning organisations in exceptional cases. This is, of course, a major sanction, but also an important opportunity for the protection of our democratic legal order. For this democratic rule of law is the foundation of our open and tolerant society, which has already been referred to in a number of contributions. Freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of religion are important pillars of it. Perhaps at this time, when society is under great strain due to the ongoing pandemic, it is clear how important we all consider these freedoms to be. The right to stand up to the existing order, to protest, to disagree with the majority, to freely profess one's own faith, are of great importance. We must cherish that freedom. And over and over again it turns out that we also have to defend her in order to keep our society truly open and free. The annual reports of the AIVD and the NCTV Threat Image show that there are threats to our open society and that these threats are becoming increasingly diffuse, whether they are international jihadist terrorism or the rise of extremist organisations in the Netherlands. Of course, I also mention criminal gangs that, sometimes in the form of motorcycle gangs, disrupt our society by applying intimidation, threats, money laundering, physical violence and many other criminal activities. But I would also like to point out that the final report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee, which was published in June last year, was undesirable from non-free countries of the House of Representatives. One thing is clear from this too: our democratic rule of law has all kinds of threats. The effective fight against it requires an adequate set of instruments, but also a close balance between limiting the fundamental rights of individuals, or in this case organisations and groups of individuals, in order to protect the freedom of the collective, of society as a whole. With this proposal, the cabinet is generally committed to making society more resilient against disruptive and radical anti-democratic forces. The proposal we are discussing today is an important part of this commitment, but it is not in itself. Some of you have already referred to that. The cabinet tackles problematic behaviour and unwanted funding in different ways, by focusing on preventing that funding and, first and foremost, increasing transparency. With the Transparency Civil Society Bill, the Cabinet is preparing various measures to increase the visibility of financial flows to civil society organisations. This proposal was presented to the House of Representatives on 17 November. In addition, the Cabinet is examining the possibility of freezing or forfeiting funds flows from organisations carrying out activities that threaten our democratic rule of law. This has recently led to a draft paper of amendment to the same law, which is now being consulted. In the extreme, in which the activities of an organisation are contrary to public policy, the use of Article 2:20 is reflected. This is the end of the instruments. The aim of this proposal is to strengthen the effectiveness and functioning of Article 2:20 WFD by three ways. To begin with, we are concreteising the notion of public order and illuminating the evidence position of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Secondly: from now on, we will not only tackle the organisation itself, but also the driving forces behind it, such as directors and active members. Thirdly, we are making the prohibition more effective, for example by direct effect, by allocating the batig balance to the State and by clarifying the penalty provisions. Fighting with public order was, and remains, the constitutional criterion for banning an organisation. That doesn't change. The Public Prosecutor's Office remains the exclusive competent authority to impose prohibition orders. The legal procedure remains based on hearing and hearing. The judge's gonna have the last word in that, as he is now. This bill preserves all the necessary safeguards. It is the effectiveness of both the procedure and the prohibition itself that substantially improves. The current organisational approach is complemented by a personalised approach. That brings me to the questions I have asked, which I would like to walk along three ways. The first questions are about purpose, usefulness and necessity of the bill. Secondly, and that is actually the main issue, questions have been asked about the precise operation. To conclude with the questions that have been asked about the relationship between this bill and Kikken's initiative proposal and a number of other MPs. Mr. Chairman. I conclude, however, with great pleasure, that there is broad agreement on the need to have effective instruments to deal with legal persons threatening public order. I do recognize some of the contributions of a number of former mayors, who have worked for years to maintain public order, but who sometimes grinning or with some frustration, I don't know if those were the words they used to run into the fact that sometimes you try to protect society, to maintain order, and that you still have to deal with clubs that try to avoid it from all sides. For example, Mr Meijer, as well as Mr Dittrich, asked how this worked out in practice, for example with a number of OMGs which were recently declared prohibited under the old 2:20. We see that such organisations sometimes consider themselves untouchable, despite the civil bans, and seek new ways to continue the culture and activities of the banned OMGs. For effective action against such organisations, it is important that all interested parties should at least put their information position in order. Very recently it appeared that at the funeral of one of the leading members of Satudarah, where hundreds of members, or former members, you might say, were present. I know that the Amsterdam triangle, in cooperation with partners in the rest of the country, had taken additional security measures to guard public order. At the same time, this intimidating visibility of this banned organisation illustrates the need to make the framework for banning legal persons more effective, including in criminal law. That is exactly why the bill adds three elements. The proposal clarifies the functioning of the criminality of the continuation of a prohibited organisation. Secondly, this legislative proposal will make it possible to use special means of investigation. Thirdly, the penalties for the continuation of a prohibited legal person are increased, even doubled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u70	I heard the minister refer to the funeral in Amsterdam. I quoted that example through that article in Het Parool. What struck me in this is that the police had made arrangements with Satutarah in the context of public order, for example on the removal of roads, while it was a forbidden organisation. My question is how this can be done in practice. On the one hand, the judge forbids anything. On the other hand, the government is going to work with the remnants of the organization. How's that rhyme with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u71	Of course, I have not been there myself when it comes to the arrangements made by the local triangle on this subject. I also find it difficult to say whether specific agreements have been made with this organization, or with individual members, or with the family of the one who was buried. I also think it makes a difference in this context. I am a little hesitant to take a bold stance on this now. If a judge has prohibited such an organisation, I do, of course, think it is important for other authorities to relate to it. Under the new 2:20, if it comes into force hopefully on 1 January, continuation activities will in fact become criminal offences, which you can act against as police. That needs to be looked at at a time like this. Then again and again it is the question, because you are dealing with a public order issue and with the possibility of escalation, what the police are doing at such a time. What does she think is appropriate in the consideration of the interests that exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u72	Suppose if the bill is passed, the judge takes order measures. Eventually, it ends up back on the mayor's plate: how am I going to maintain these order measures? The question then is what the interaction between them is. How will this bill work in practice with regard to the enforcement by mayors?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u73	This will vary from one case to another. Of course, we all know the discussion about major manifestations and major demonstrations, where things happen under our eyes or under our noses that we say: why do the police not intervene? At the same time, that is the balance that mayors always have to make: what do you do to keep a situation manageable and ensure that it doesn't escalate unnecessarily? I'm very much of maintaining where it's necessary. As far as I am concerned, that should be the starting point. However, I also think that we should give room for police and mayors to consider in this context what they consider necessary in each situation and on a case-by-case basis in order to manage things properly. Perhaps I can also respond directly to Mr Dittrich's question, because then we have completed the block 'nut and necessity and how it works out in practice'. He asked what specific measures of order could then be imposed by the court. Local government has an important role to play in this integrated approach to OMGs. Mayors have a wide range of public policy and security interventions. There is not only this instrument, but they can also, for example, temporarily close premises, hold calls, attach conditions to events, ban events and work with area and cooperation bans if necessary. Some municipalities have also included in the APV a ban on the execution of the expressions, the 'colors', of prohibited organisations. The jurisdiction of the court is broader, as it is also linked to wider public policy within the meaning of Article 8 of the Constitution. An order to take down a website, for example, or to refrain from closed meetings which do not necessarily infringe municipal public policy, is also possible before the courts, provided that this is deemed necessary. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the functioning of the bill. Looking at that effect, it might be good to walk through and down the adjustments to Article 2:20 very precisely once again. It does not matter whether the activity or the purpose of the legal person is contrary to public policy. In either case, prohibition and dissolution may follow. The crucial notion of public order is further standardised in substance. This would serve legal certainty and, at the same time, would be an indirect expression of what is, in any case, essential for the protection of our democratic society. It provides for a relief of the Office's evidence position, by the fact that certain activities and purposes are considered to be contrary to public policy or are suspected to be in breach of public policy. I am going to go into this a little bit more later on when it comes to the suspicions of the law that some questions have been asked about. I refer to the direct effect of a prohibition of a legal person before the expiry of the time limit for appeal. In the event of a prohibition, the court may order the person concerned to take certain measures or to refrain from conduct. Failure to comply with such an order is punishable by criminal law. Drivers of a prohibited legal person shall be prohibited for a minimum period of three years unless the person concerned cannot be seriously accused. Bit of balance after liquidation of the prohibited legal person may be granted by the court to the State. The operation of the criminalisation of the continuation of the activities of a prohibited legal person has been clarified and the penalty for continuing the activities of the prohibited legal person is doubled from one to two years in prison. All in all, there is a strong tightening up of the current Article 2:20. It will be clearer, faster and more effective, but of course it will be more effective, while maintaining all the necessary safeguards associated with such a far-reaching procedure. The question is: what should the Public Prosecutor's Office do less as a result of the proposal and what should the association prove more? In other words, how exactly does it get easier for the D.A. in these cases? For example, Mrs De Boer asked how counter-proof could be provided. We are talking about the new third paragraph of 2:20 BW, where certain objectives and activities of a legal person are suspected to be contrary to public policy. The prosecution no longer needs to prove that these goals or activities also lead to a real and serious violation of the fundamental principles of our legal system, which can disrupt or disrupt our society. The presumption of justice means that this is assumed when it comes to either degradation of human dignity or violence or, in the third place, inciting hatred or discrimination. That is also directly related to a question that Mr Talsma asked about it. The Public Prosecutor's Office will first have to prove the existence of the activity. The first will be when there is a more or less systematic activity, in other words, there must be a pattern or a structure; except for exceptions, but as a rule. It will also have to be demonstrated that that activity is also attributable to the legal person. All these elements will continue to play a role. Now the Public Prosecutor's Office has to prove that there is hate-sowing, for example, and that this jeopardises public order. In particular, we see that the second element for the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently sometimes a hurdle. The second hurdle is slightly reduced in this bill. If the Public Prosecutor's Office systematically demonstrates hate-sowing, the premise is that there is an infringement of public order. It is then up to the defendant organisation to make it clear that this is not the case, or that a ban would nevertheless be disproportionate. This is for the D.A.'s office a relief from the evidence position. Because of the special nature of this arrangement, I have deliberately limited this relief to situations that are undisputed that we do not tolerate it in our democratic rule of law: degradation of human dignity, violence, inciting hatred and discrimination. These are common notions, which are also enshrined in the necessary international conventions and have already been mentioned in the 1980s in the creation of 2:20 BW. If, together, both nationally and internationally, we believe that this behaviour cannot and cannot be tolerated, then it does not seem strange to me to add the suspicion that this is a violation of public policy. Nor should it be the case that organisations that are conscious and structuralally guilty of this should get away with it, because the public prosecutor's office encounters insurmountable evidence problems. All legal guarantees remain valid for the defendant organisation. They lie mainly in the conflict procedure, the possibility of counter evidence and the judicial review in several bodies. That's how it's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u74	I must have walked this way. I do not know whether the Minister will also follow the example I mentioned about organisations broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u75	Templars, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u76	If that is an incentive to discriminate, you meet the criteria, while I wonder if that is the intention of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u77	That's casuistic, but this is good for legal history. I think there are two elements in this. In my view, anyone who so specifically asks for it is guilty of discrimination. I think we can agree on that. The second question is whether there is a single incident or a structural pattern. In your case there was a phone call once, but it matters whether there is systematicity or structure. For Article 2:20, it is relevant that it is also demonstrated whether it is the legal person to be charged. You can also ask questions about this, because we do not know who is on the other side of the phone. That can also be an employee who does not do so on assignment or who does not do so on an initiative of that organisation. In other words, it's quite complicated casuistic. You ask whether it is enough to ban a legal person who comes up with such a question, but in my view it is too thin for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u78	I think it is important, in the context of legal history too, to make that clear. You make a few assumptions that make it too thin, but I think the practice is that there are companies where the manager is called every time the temp agency says, "We don't want Turk." Then you can say that it is systematic and attributable to the company. So those behaviors can be established. Next, it is a legal presumption that there is a violation of public policy. If you follow the steps, you could say on the basis of this bill: on that basis that organisation can be banned. Well, I suppose there's a test at the D.A.'s office whether it's appropriate to do this if it's in court or if it's serious enough. What I find difficult about it is that on the one hand you are going to formulate criteria that assume some kind of force: when it comes to discrimination, there is the legal presumption that it is affecting public order. If that is then the issue, the judge may say: well, maybe this isn't serious enough. I find that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u79	Here the position is actually reversed. We see, in particular, that it is difficult for the Public Prosecutor to get his hands together for that. Now it is more up to the legal person itself to explain why this legal presumption is unjustified. In addition to the need for the Public Prosecutor's Office to choose where it should use the capacity and resources and indeed the judge to see if it is serious enough and precisely what the shocked public order is, isn't public order always at stake when there is structural discrimination? Only where the obligation of proof lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office to prove it is reversed by this bill. It is then up to the organization to prove that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u80	Then I come to the next question, but you may be able to answer it. How could they do that? What's there to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt then asked whether I could explain which elements of the law now concern codification and which elements are new. The notion of "conflict with public order" has been coloured using elements already mentioned in the case law of the Supreme Court. They have played an explicit role in this. It concerns, in particular, the elements associated with this rebuttable presumption of evidence. Think, for example, of the case law of the Martijn Association on the degradation of human dignity, many of the motor gangs involved in violence, and the inciting of discrimination, which was an important foundation in the prohibition of the Centre Party and the Dutch People's Union at the time. However, the main focus of the legislative proposal is not to codify these elements, but much more to complement and clarify the application and consequences of the prohibition. Clarification strikes a balance between legal certainty on the one hand and room for justice on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u82	The Minister has just brought up the case of the Centre Party. I think he means the CP'86. I believe that was a split-off which was then banned by the Supreme Court. You also mentioned the People's Union. Those were indeed issues that threatened the democratic rule of law, which this bill envisages. Why are political parties and secondary institutions excluded? Because this legislative proposal is primarily about this, also based on the ECHR: inciting hatred, discrimination and so on. You can say a lot about motorcycle gangs, but I think that's a pretty diverse company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u83	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u84	I have not seen many aspects of discrimination there. I'd like a clarification from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u85	I see that point. Mr Otten also asked about the new Article 2:20. Political parties are excluded. And then what happens in the meantime? As a cabinet, we have deliberately chosen to come up with a separate law on political parties, in which this element is what would be the basis for banning political parties in the future, but also a number of other issues. Think, for example, of the organisation and financing of political parties. I agree with Mr Otten when he says that there can be tension on that too. At the same time, this tension, when it comes to instruments for banning political parties, is very much affecting your democracy and your democratic system. There is a great deal of tension in this and we have said that we prefer to do so in an integrated and balanced legislative proposal on the political parties. I suspect, by the way, that the existing cabinet will no longer be able to do so. That will be the case for a new cabinet, but it is now working to include this in the amendment of Article 2:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u86	Yes, but the more limited Article 2:20 has been applied to political parties in the past. When will the law on political parties be passed? 'Cause that could take a long time. Then we're in a vacuum. This radicalisation does not stand still and is not going to wait for it. So how's the Minister gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u87	I do not think that we will immediately end up in a vacuum, because the old Article 2:20 will still apply to political parties. It doesn't suddenly create a hole or an intertemporal vacuum. We are now adapting Article 2:20 and in the adapted form political parties are excluded. There will be a new law on political parties and in the meantime there will not be a kind of free for all for political parties. That's not true. The old Article 2:20 still applies to political parties. We have only considered it appropriate as a cabinet to come up with a separate law when it comes to the broader discussion on the regulation of political parties. That was also part of the advice given by the Remkes Committee at the time, namely to look at other issues as well. I believe it was Mr Ollongren who announced this legislative process from BZK's point of view. That is now in the preparatory phase. Because of the time, we don't know how much longer the formation will last. I don't suspect this cabinet will come with it anymore. But it's on the role of a next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u88	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u89	Is the Minister prepared to remove that exception from the law for political parties and secondary institutions in the transitional article?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u90	Not now, because I'll have to go back to the House of Representatives. We have just thought about not taking them along, knowing that there is a more integral legislative process around political parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u91	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u92	I conclude that this may take a very long time. We would prefer to delete this transitional provision, possibly through a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u93	Yeah, but then I don't know how long that's gonna take. I agree with you. I would like to speed up this and I hope that we can put it to the vote quickly in this form. You are actually calling on the cabinet to continue with the process of law around the political parties and, so to speak, to prepare it for a forthcoming cabinet. I will take that call and pass it on to my colleague. Then there were questions about formal legal entities and informal legal entities. I think it would be a good idea to emphasise here that the most recent prohibitions concern informal associations, associations that have not been set up by a notary. As the Supreme Court rightly considered, the existence of an informal association should not be overly demanding. An informal association presupposes, what they call, any organizational connection. And then I quote from the verdict of one and a half years ago in the case against Bandidos. Whether this is the case in a specific case depends on the circumstances of the case, for example whether there are more or less fixed rules or practices, or whether one or more members carry out coordinating tasks for the benefit of the independent body, whether there is any member consultation and whether funds are collected or whether there is some kind of common cash. To date, it has not been found that an application under Article 2:20 has been waived because the organisation concerned would not qualify as an informal association. Having said that, I believe that it offers sufficient scope to prohibit not only formal legal entities when necessary, but also informal organizational associations and movements. Mrs De Boer asked about other material standards. I think I answered that question by clearly stating that we are not introducing a new standard. The proposal implements Article 8 of the Constitution and the concept of public order used in it. That doesn't change anything. On the basis of concepts that have already been mentioned in the drafting of Article 2:20, we are actually filling that in more concrete terms. You could say that this will improve legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u94	In response to what the Minister said about formal and informal legal entities, I have a question. What is the situation when the Public Prosecutor's Office decides not to apply for a ban in civil courts, while there are civil society organisations in society that say that it should? In criminal law, Article 12 criminal proceedings may play a role, but this is civil law. What is the situation for these civil society organisations? What can they do to activate the State's Attorney General's Office to ask for a ban anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u95	I'm gonna check that out, because for the sake of precision, too, I think it's important that we take this into account in legal history. I do not know exactly whether Article 12, which deals with criminal prosecution, also covers civilian tasks. I'm just gonna throw out a little helpline. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u96	You can do that with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u97	Normally I would have said: in the second term, but I understand that there is now an unspoken wish to avoid the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u98	It can also be done through a letter. It doesn't matter, as long as we're there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u99	No, we're gonna do better than that. Downstairs, they're listening to it. Someone's gonna give me the answer later. But this is a very clever question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u100	You will come back to that later, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions about what exactly is covered by anti-fascistism, which is actually radicalisation and when there is conflict with public order. I have always been very careful when presenting this bill to point to organisations and say that they would be eligible for it. I have looked back a lot and looked where the public order concept has been applied in the past by the judge and the Public Prosecutor. I am reluctant to do so, because the essence of Article 2:20 is that it is not the director or minister who says which organisation should be banned, but that we should resign from the independent Public Prosecutor's Office. Having said that, I have always stressed the following. The threatening elements are in forms of radicalisation or extremism where ideological goals are pursued in a way that does not fit into a democratic rule of law. In other words, where there is violence, the will to play in court, the right of the strongest, systematically inciting hatred and discrimination and putting people against each other. Of course, you have that in all kinds of extremism; in left-extremism, right-extremism and extremism associated with religious directions. But then it's actually about that active element. That is why he is much more concerned with the use of violence, inciting hatred and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u102	This is also a bit related to the presumption of evidence, because that gives that supposed effect. If you discriminate structurally, then the supposed effect is to undermine public order. Do I have to see that the burden of proof remains with the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to make some sort of weighting? The relatively lighter the discrimination, the more it takes? If you want to lay a bomb, you're there pretty fast, but if they're relatively lighter offences, however bad, then the burden of proof is a lot heavier. Is that the balance I need to see?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u103	It's a good thing we're having a discussion on this. I think that Mr Recourt is making a good point. I just said in my reply to Mrs De Boer that there must be some kind of structural pattern, a systematic one. At the same time, you have also been able to read in the reply that is also underlined by the Council of State that there may sometimes be a very serious incident. I think we all see in that palette that a light fact alone is not enough to assume conflict with public order. There really must be systematicity, a series of facts. And as these facts are heavier, the frequency with which that happens naturally has an effect on that. So I do like that Mr Recourt says: the lighter the facts, the more you have to demonstrate systematicity. A contrario could also be argued: as the facts are more serious, it is more in the light of the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office or a judge can assess that a single case, or two or three cases, may already lead to an infringement of public policy. So yes, frequency and nature or heaviness are connected I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u104	I thank the Minister for this explanation. I fully agree with this view, in the sense that, by nature, the prohibition of classical fundamental rights should be applied or interpreted restrictively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u105	I think so anyway. The judge not only applies this law, but will also always check against the ECHR. This proportionality always plays a role there too, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u106	I fully agree with what the Minister is now saying about when extremism should be seen as a threat to public order. But I asked a question about what he said in the reply, also in response to questions from the Forum for Democracy. It says in so many words: left-wing extremism is the opposition to the Dutch asylum and foreign policy. I must say that I am a left-wing extremist, because I too want our foreign and asylum policies to change. I understand that the Minister is now saying that this is not left-wing extremism, but it is now on paper. So my question is what the Minister meant to say there. Why did he try to give some sort of definition or description of all those forms of extremism, if that is not relevant to this law? That's actually the question that lingers with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u107	Mrs De Boer, let us correct that here. I do not have the exact text ready here, but that you are against policy, or that you want to change policy, is, of course, perfectly legitimate in an open democracy. You can do that in other ways than just in this Chamber. You can go out on the street, you can write things. We're a free country, you can have an opinion, you can get angry, et cetera. That's all your right. In the answer, it has been attempted that it has also been somewhat provoked by some of the questioners in order to get a little more feeling about the kind of organisations it might relate to. I have always tried to find a balance between the different forms of extremism we know. Faith-driven, right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism, we see there of course washing out in different corners and on different flanks. I find them all equally worrying and illegal in a democratic rule of law. I believe that, where there is an ideology that leads, for example, to violence, where violence is applied or where there is an incentive to hatred or discrimination, we can draw a line in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u108	We are in complete agreement on that. However, I would like to point out that I get the feeling that in seeking a balance to call the left and right equally, in the examples mentioned, a little ignores the degree of violence or hatred. In my view, that is the criterion and whether it is left- or right-oriented, it seems to me to be far less relevant in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u109	Absolutely. As far as I am concerned, this is also the theme that is ideologically driven by this type of organisation. There are, of course, many organisations and NGOs that oppose Dutch migration policy in a neat way, which fits within our democratic rule of law. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. Just as well as you could say that there is nothing wrong with organizations that are proud of our Dutch identity, as long as they are open to others as well. But, of course, this is about the excesses. If identity excludes others and encourages discrimination, then we have a point. Just as well as I think it's a tip when left-wing organizations take matters into their own hands, threaten or invade farms, or beat up cops when they try to empty a squat with the permission of a judge. They are two forms of discrimination, one is discrimination, and the other is the use of violence, and I think that, if it is structural and if it is really part of such an organisation, there should be opportunities within the rule of law to act against it. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna browse a little more now, if you don't mind. That helps to keep pace. There was another question from Mrs De Boer about the application of the law of proof. It is true that civil evidence law applies. The criminal court is not bound by the determination by the civil court, but he can, of course, take that into account. The other way round is that a criminal conviction can already play a role in the prosecution's taking of evidence in an application for a prohibition. Evidence of violence can be substantiated by convictions. However, this does not mean that the presumption becomes irrefutable. Even so, it remains possible for a legal person to prove that, despite that presumption, the declaration of prohibition would not be proportionate or necessary. In the end, it is the judge who also takes into account the relationship with other fundamental rights. We have just talked about the organisations. Mrs Bezaan asked whether there was a fear that undemocratic legal entities would be banned in an undemocratic way. I don't share that fear. The concept of public order is very broad at the moment, as was also envisaged at the time of its introduction by the constitutionalist, and democratically established. With this legislative proposal, we will increase legal certainty by giving effect to this concept. In the light of the comments made by Ms Bezaan by the NJCM, the concepts used have also been explained in more detail with examples. The Council of State therefore considered that this was in line with Article 8 of the Constitution and that it was even desirable for the concept of public order to be further defined. That refinement has taken place with this bill and that is a step in the right direction. I think we've had enough casework. Mrs. Nanninga asked questions about hate speech. Can specific organisations be banned? In the end, it's not up to me. The initiative lies primarily with the Public Prosecutor's Office and ultimately it is up to the judge. If there is a structural incentive for racial discrimination, anti-Semitism, Muslim hatred, homo-hate, then it can be said in general that these concepts are those that are covered by them and are contrary to public policy. That's what we see in the past. In the case law based on Article 2:20, for example, there is a prohibition of the Dutch People's Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u110	These examples are, of course, clear and obvious. I'm just looking for where it gets exciting, let me put it this way with freedom of speech, for example anti-5G types that threaten to set things on fire and antivax people who sometimes shout strange things. I do not expect the Minister to have an answer for each point individually, but can he indicate where a little the limit is in those kinds of expressions? It's undesirable, but is it also covered by this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u111	We live in a free country. You can scream a lot of crazy things there. You also get to do a lot of undesirable things. Not everything that is undesirable is immediately punishable. With this legislative proposal, we are restricting ourselves to a number of elements that we say are in breach of public policy, especially where there is systematic conduct. But then it's about violence. Then it is about inciting hatred and discrimination. Then it's about human dignity. This is particularly related to pedosexuality. There are still a number of cases to think of where this can be done, but you saw in the Martijn Foundation's prohibition that this element was particularly relevant. That leaves a lot of room in my eyes for a lot of crazy and a lot of weird ideas that I think you should know all about; I don't know where you get it either. We are, of course, living in an open and free country, where the application of 2:20 must be applied with restraint. It is a sort of ultimate remedy, where criminal action or intervention is inadequate or where you see that it comes back again and again and there is some sort of organizational context in it. Take, for example, the criminal motorcycle gangs. Where the use of violence or drug trafficking is concerned, you can, of course, prosecute it individually. The point is that there was a certain organization behind it. There was an organized connection from one of those criminal motorcycle gangs. Then 2:20 comes around the corner, which, of course, helps throughout that arsenal to do something towards legal entities and prohibitions. I'm the first to say that that doesn't solve all the problems. People who just want to be really angry or try to undermine our freedom and the rule of law, don't just catch them. Against this kind of misery you need criminal law and administrative action and 2:20 and a whole arsenal of other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u112	I am concerned about freedom of expression, including perhaps very strange and violent things. As far as we are concerned, that is quite a sacred point. To get into this water, the Minister actually says, there really is more needed, an organizational connection and so on. The freedom of violent business is not necessarily at risk, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u113	Yeah, that's right. There are all kinds of discussions about twisting facts. I also think that this is worrying, but that is not, in principle, relevant to what we are doing here. One could say that a kind of implicit message of inciting hatred and discrimination comes from the twisting of facts at some point. Then 2:20 comes back around the corner. But we live in an open and free country. You may have different opinions and you may shout crazy things without immediately... This is at the extreme of the spectrum and is therefore only applied if there really is a serious breach of public order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u114	Where are you with the answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u115	That's actually going pretty well. There was another question from Mrs Baay-Timmerman about the registration of administrative bans. It is, of course, relevant that they are pronounced. They will be registered with the trade register at the Chamber of Commerce. This includes the reason and duration of the administrative ban and the person concerned, so that this is maintained in time and in the scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u116	If I've heard the minister correctly, he said: directors. Yeah, it makes sense for drivers to be included in the register. But does that also apply to policy-makers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u117	That is actually the supplement I was just talking about in the debate with the SP. That's the amendment. But then a judge will always have to point out who they were. You don't work with stromand constructions, like: you have a board and you impose an administrative ban, but those who really were in control were x, y and z. Then a judge will have to claim that the Public Prosecutor's Office says: but we also want that one and that another administrative ban to be imposed. This can then also be registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u118	Does it therefore apply to those informal legal entities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u119	Yeah, exactly. Those informal legal entities always have the question: what is the formal administration? That is not a statutory requirement. There is often an informal board. Even then, the Public Prosecutor can bring an action and may assign the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u120	But is that included in the trade register, when they do not belong to a formal organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u121	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u122	Then how did they get into the trade register?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u123	Because in the end, the judge will have to pass judgment. A judge will have to say: I forbid this club and impose an administrative ban on these people. This can be a formal legal entity, a formal association or a formal foundation with formal management. To that has been added: make sure you get those stromens, the informal drivers... you can. If that's what the D.A.'s gonna do, the judge can assign it. The same applies to informal associations, which also have informal governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u124	Let me get this straight: does that mean that the Chamber of Commerce is going to establish a register of persons who have been banned from the administration, with an end date? The question is: who has access to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u125	Even now, there are administrative bans. Even now, they need to be registered. It goes through that trade register. That is the route that will soon be used in the enlargement of 2:20. I believe that my colleague from EZK is doing this; he is talking about the Chamber of Commerce and the Commercial Register, and he is looking at that register at the Chamber of Commerce: how do you bring it fully in line with the GDPR? That's, I think, the point you're asking for. But a good balance has to be struck between public access, which you need to ban governance and the debate that has been going on for a long time. I am referring to the question of what you are doing to protect the personal data of directors and bosses of all kinds of organisations, not only in associations and foundations, but also in e.g. in non-profit organisations, in one way or another. The Secretary of State is now looking at how this should be adapted, but until then the trade register will be used for this purpose. Mr Van Dijk was still afraid of the churches. I don't think he has anything to worry about. The current Article 2:20 BW already applies to church societies. In the theoretical case that a church society carries out activities leading, for example, to a threat to national security or to the international legal order, you could theoretically put that underneath, but I do not see that one-two-three happens. He himself cited the point of family values, traditional family patterns. That certainly doesn't fall into the ticking boxes we were just talking about. I have also read something else about the comments in the AIVD report. These are often extremist or radicalising organisations that lend symbols and values from different angles to measure their right to exist. In some you can see that traditional thinking patterns about classical family structures are parts, but that is of course not the offensive point. The offensive point is that they then exclude others, that they incite hatred or discrimination, not the old-fashioned view I myself call... But that might be an insult to your side. You understand, I see you nodding what we are talking about and that is not, in principle, contrary to public policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u126	Speaking of religions. A point I also mentioned in my first term, are cults. Some religions are indistinguishable from sects, and some political parties are gradually not. How do you see the application of this Article 2:20 for sects? For example, the Bundesverfassungsschutz also has a special section for sects. I don't think Scientology is allowed there, either. Surely it is a problem, especially for vulnerable people, that all kinds of wrong things are happening in sects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u127	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u128	How does the Minister see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u129	This legislative proposal concerns all legal persons. We have already had the discussion ourselves: but what if you haven't been to the notary to formally record it? Then you see that the concept of the informal association is included, so the more informal organisations are included. It is a wide range of civil society organisations and also religious communities. That's basically all part of it. But the question is always: is there a conflict with public order? In other words, is national security or the international legal order at stake? Do we see the use of violence or the inciting of hatred or discrimination? Then it depends entirely on whether what such a cult does and pursues is appropriate. I do not think that will be the case in many cases immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u130	We see in this age of identity politics that different groups are becoming more sectarian. We have also seen this with the corona measures, the so-called wappies and you name it, up to and including virologists who have a radicalised military after them as in some sort of manhunt. That is why I came to the point of the political parties. This isn't standing still. We can't wait for that. This article simply needs to be extended. I'm gonna keep hammering on that. It must be able to be used more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u131	We had a very short debate about political parties. You were right on your side when it came to extending the instruments in the sense of: we are separating them now. But when it comes to cults, I now have it at my side in the sense of: they are just covered here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u132	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u133	The question is always whether there is that principle of public policy in a particular case. Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions that are open. Then I come to the relationship with the initiative proposal - Chicken. Mr Talsma asked how criminal proceedings are handled against people who have continued their activities while the appeal or appeal injunction has been destroyed. The proposal precisely opted for an independent court order as a measure of order during the proceedings. That order must be linked to the protection of public order. The destruction of the prohibition has an effect on the continued existence of that order. This ends with the destruction of the prohibition. However, deliberate action contrary to such a court order may continue to be prosecuted afterwards. The criminality follows from acting in violation of that order at that time. This construction of violation of a measure or order that has not yet been definitively decided in court is not new in our criminal justice system. Think of ignoring an order from the mayor under Article 172a of the Municipal Act, which is punishable by Article 184 of the Criminal Code, as well as the violation of a behavior measure imposed by the Public Prosecutor under Article 509hh Code of Criminal Procedure. This is perhaps a nice bridge to the next theme, namely the parallel with the initiative proposal for a chicken. Mr Janssen says: everything is nice with this bill. I also heard him say between the lines: if the Minister does not make a play of it today, we are in a positive position in the game. That's good to hear. But he also says, "That's not what we're here for." Indeed, this also calls for some justice in terms of capacity, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office. When I look purely at how burdensome this bill is on that capacity, I think: that is negligible. But, of course, I fully agree with Mr Janssen when he says that we will not get there without blue on the street, without prosecutors with a normal caseload, without speedy lead times in court. So it is a question of both good legislation and the instruments, as well as the capacity to put that into practice. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Kuik's and her colleagues' own initiative proposal. I have already indicated that I am in favour of this proposal in the House of Representatives. I would like to say this once again to Mr Rombouts, whom I heard a little bit of doubt about in his speech. Our view has not changed in this respect. Only, the initiative proposal is not before us today. In this sense, it is too early to comment today on the exact relationship between that proposal and the private law instrument, or on other elements of the proposal. This is particularly true since it is an initiative proposal. I also find it rather gallant to leave the defence, including towards your Chamber, to the initiators themselves. Of course, these proposals touch each other, but they are also separate from each other, and in my view they should each be judged on their own merits. I have always said that both proposals are complementary to each other. I mean, they don't bite each other or get in the way. So they are complementary, but at the same time I have tried to indicate that they could also be deployed separately. So if the initiative proposal fails, is not continued or is delayed for a long time, then we can just move forward by 2.20. In my view, the administrative ban is a good, fine addition to the civil and criminal resources in the proposal before us today, I say in the direction of Mr Rombouts. Think again of those motorcycle gangs and other similar organisations. They really disrupt our society through patterns of intimidation and threats, drug crime, physical violence, a kind of culture of lawlessness that applies there. With the administrative ban, the society-destructive activities of these organisations can be stopped really quickly, perhaps even faster than at 2:20. It is a matter of administrative initiative. In my view, this instrument is still not completely superfluous, if you want to achieve an integrated and decisive approach to undermining and organised crime, so in that sense it adds something to what is going on today. Mr Meijer asked whether you did not say that 2:20 was not effective, because it was so slow. Let me say first of all that today's adjustment does something about that speed. It makes the instrument clearer, more effective and faster. The amendment introduces, for example, the possibility for the court to order certain measures to be taken or to refrain from conduct until the civil ban has become irrevocable, where you now have to wait for the whole trial with appeal and sometimes cassation. In that respect, we are really taking a big step forward, with this alone. But sometimes the initiative proposal works even faster because it allows the minister to take an administrative measure on the proposal of the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u134	Have you advanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u135	Then why don't I just finish the whole thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u136	If Mr. Rombouts agrees. I take his body language as an endorsement and then I give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u137	Mr Talsma asked about that speed. We also have to wait and see what happens to the initiative proposal, but there are opportunities here to speed things up. If that proposal were not to go ahead, I would like to have another discussion with the case-law and the Public Prosecutor's Office on whether there are any other ways of applying the existing legislation as quickly as possible. And then I have one last answer. That is the answer I owe to Mr Dittrich. Then we'll finish the first term. That is that the Article 12 procedure in the Code of Criminal Procedure does not apply when it comes to the civil duty of the Public Prosecutor. In particular, this is intended to give the Public Prosecutor's Office a truly independent position, regardless of any social pressure that might arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u138	That puts you at the end of your answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u140	I shall then give the floor to Mr Rombouts and then to Mr Talsma and to Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u141	Mr. Chairman. I do not need a second deadline, but I would like to ask one more question. That was also my last question in my first term. If the initiative proposal does not come here, then what would you advise the next cabinet to do to get that nice addition with which you yourself characterize that initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u142	I am, of course, a little reluctant when it comes to advising a successor or a new cabinet. I don't want to anticipate that too much right now. The initiative proposal is still there. I'm assuming it's being treated. I think we should wait and see. But at the same time, in the direction of Mr Talsma, I also indicated that thinking does not stand still. If, in the end, that proposal cannot count on a majority in this Chamber, then I can imagine that we can think again about what you can do to intervene even faster and more decisively, particularly in the fight against organised crime, because that is the cut-out that the Chicken Initiative is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u143	In his response to my question, for which I am grateful, the acceleration in the first period of the procedure is still a little too much to my liking to the initiative legislative proposal. I would urge the Minister to link it to this bill. I think it might be very good to speed up the judicial procedure, in complete contrast to the initiative proposal. Is the Minister prepared to include it explicitly on this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u144	For example, you yourself mentioned the form of the provisional application, I remember from the first deadline. That's in the system of this bill. I see your challenge, your question: why was the cabinet actually positive about the initiative proposal? This was mainly due to the speed of intervention by criminal organisations. You are actually saying: see if you can apply a certain acceleration in this procedure, with more state-of-the-art guarantees and more legal protection. So I take that challenge as: within the system of 2:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u145	The Minister answered my question saying that Article 12 does not apply, but I had included that in my question, because everyone knows that this is civil law and not criminal law. Can I ask you this? If an NGO, a social organisation, wants the Public Prosecutor's Office to ask for a ban and the Public Prosecutor says it doesn't, can such a social organisation, in summary proceedings, subpoena the Public Prosecutor's Office to the civil court and ask the civil court to order the Public Prosecutor's Office to make such a request for a ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u146	No, you can't. I think that would also affect the independence of the Public Prosecutor too much. Of course, Article 12 is a very separate procedure, which makes a small comment on the balance of interests of the Public Prosecutor, but it is surrounded by all legal guarantees. Therefore, normal civil law will never be sufficient to provide sufficient guarantees that it will be done in an orderly manner. So there's no civil-law variant of Article 12 Criminal Procedure. I also wonder if we should want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u147	Finally, Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u148	Can I summarize it in such a way that there is no possibility for civil society organisations to encourage the Public Prosecutor to apply for a ban in the civil sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u149	Those resources are definitely there. Anyone can write a letter. So you can turn it on, of course. I also believe that political debate or public indignation about the shocked rule of law can play a role. For example, look at the big motorcycle gangs. Mayors played a part in that. The Netherlands, society too, said: it can't be that? That feeling and that view naturally also weighs into what it is committed to. But there is no formal way in which individual organisations or citizens can enforce that in the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u150	I thank the Minister. I see the Minister struggling with what to say about the initiative law and what not. I think we'll recognize that struggle. Let me keep it short. I would nevertheless like to discuss one aspect, namely the Minister's remark that the administrative ban goes faster, because: first the driver, then the judge. Now, for example, in foreign law, when the administrative judge says that you have to go back to the country of origin and you have to file administrative interim proceedings, the administrative judge says standard: we wait until the substantive treatment and then we will see if you need to go back. Why? Because a stranger like that when he goes back, maybe even prosecution...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u151	I'd like a quick question, Mr. Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u152	What makes the Minister think that the administrative judge does not maintain the same reasoning for a very far-reaching breach of a classical fundamental right, and in every interim action says: wait for the substantive treatment and then we will look?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u153	Because I can't sit on the judge's seat or dare to sit down. So I can't rule out judges doing this standard. In foreign law there is a serious reason: if you send someone back to a country where there really is a danger to the person in question and you cannot then bring that person back. The question is whether the same would apply to the application of an administrative ban. That is also when a judge says on second thought that there would be no basis for it, but it would be easier to reverse it. Then the question is whether that would really be suspended or suspended by the judge. I'm gonna prelude on what a judge would do. I do not rule out that in some cases he would choose that line, but I doubt whether it will be standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u154	In addition, because that was also my point: the administrative procedure. If that is challenged by the administrative judge, it will of course also look at the procedure that follows this bill in Article 2:20. Then there is a very good chance that the administrative solution will still get wet with the administrative judge. So that's another reason to withdraw that initiative proposal. I would just like to point out to the Minister that the Council of State has also said that he cannot hide behind the prerogatives of the initiators, but that he, as co-legislator, must look at this as well. So that's what we wanted to give the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u155	Thank you. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u157	We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I'd like to point out to the Chamber that I'm going to suspend for dinner break in seven minutes. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the second term? I see Mrs De Boer wishes that. Then I'm gonna suspend for a little while to record the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u158	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35366, Amendment of Book 2 of the Civil Code to extend the possibility of banning legal persons. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was not my intention to initiate some complicated procedure. I had not said in the first period what our consideration was, and it seems to me appropriate to do so to the Minister. It could have been in the event of interruption. I welcome the answers and clarifications given by the Minister. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the bill next week. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u160	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then I will see if the Minister wishes to speak in response to the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs. Or do I understand why he doesn't want the word?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u161	Well, I just want to say, enjoy your meal. And thank you. It was a good debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Minister. You can sit down again, because we are now going to close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-15-eerstekamer-8.u163	We have come to deal with the legislative proposal and the end of the debate. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Minister for Legal Protection and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
