ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Common Regulations Act and some other laws relating to strengthening the democratic legitimacy of common regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u2	Seven speakers have spoken before this debate. The very first is Mr De Kort of the VVD. I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't been a Member of Parliament very long, but before I became a Member of Parliament, I was active in local politics. As a councilman and alderman, I have experience of common arrangements. I recognise that it has been particularly difficult, as a representative of the people, to maintain sufficient grip and influence on these common arrangements, while regional cooperation is increasingly taking place. Think of the Participation Act, which directly affects the budget law of municipal councils. Or think of the Regional Energy Strategy, which directly affects the living environment of citizens. It is therefore all the more important that democratic legitimacy is properly regulated. There are a number of improvements to the proposal. We are particularly interested in the effects of these improvements. Can the Minister undertake to inform the Chamber annually about the effects of the improvements resulting from this proposal? The second point for the VVD is the support of the clerks, because the workload for council members, statesmen and watership members is high. We know that. So there may be improvements, but if this workload is so high, it is only a question of whether they are being applied adequately. We are therefore curious to see how the Minister looks at improving the support of the clerks. Mr President, so much for my first contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u4	Thank you, Mr. De Kort. I shall now give the floor to Mr... No, wait, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u5	It is interesting to hear the VVD about this, especially a former council member who has had a lot to do with this. Can Mr De Kort point out in what area this bill gives a real democratic grip to such a city council member?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u6	There are several improvements to this proposal. Take the right of investigation. You have that as a council member in your own municipality, but there will now also be an opportunity to exercise the right to research with council members from other municipalities in the region. Another point is the active obligation to provide information. A third point is the views, which are not only presented with a budget but also put the Council in a position to gain a better grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u7	But does this also solve the democratic deficit of lack of control?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u8	It is a step in the right direction. That is why I am very curious about the effects of the improvements and also ask the Minister to report annually to the Chamber on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u9	The three issues mentioned by Mr De Kort on behalf of the VVD as improvements do not solve what he started, namely that as a city council member you do have tasks on important things but have no control. The right to research is fine. Give me a point of view? That can all be put aside. An active disclosure obligation? What do you mean there wasn't, you might ask. Does Mr De Kort not think that this bill does not solve the democratic deficit of control and legitimizes regional cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u10	Our citizens don't think at all in those municipal boundaries. That is why it is logical that there should be more regional cooperation. I believe that the improvements that are being proposed can make a real contribution to this. That will have to be proved, so that is why I think it is very important for the Chamber to be reported annually and to be informed whether it has sufficient effect. Because I agree with Mrs Leijten: it must have effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u11	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u12	Mr De Kort has a very brief speech. He actually starts with the essence of the problem, namely that there are municipal tasks, but that cannot be properly filled by the local parliament because you have gotten that regional intermediate layer. Do you have to have it? That must be at the heart of this debate. Does it not make more sense to follow the Council of State, which says: "Therefore, it can be questioned whether it makes sense to legislate on common regulations. This does not solve the broader problem underlying it." Can we, in other words, not say much better to the Minister: fine, but we are not adopting this law; we must first solve the problem that there is no democratic control?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u13	My assessment is, and then I repeat it, I say from my experience as alderman and as a councilman, that there are improvements. We'll have to wait and see, but I have a good feeling about it. I'm very curious about the effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u14	Thank you. I saw that there was another interruption by Mr Bosma, if I am correct. No, that wasn't the case. He got up to make his speech. I thank Mr De Kort for his contribution and then I give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV for his first term. Mr. Bosma, please begin your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're discussing another Ollongren cunt today. It is, of course, extremely logical for municipalities to work together. This is done within the framework of the WGR, the Common Regulations Act. There are 424 of these common arrangements. A large municipality has an average of 46 of these partnerships. It concerns cooperation in the areas of public health, safety, the environment, land-use planning, well-being, you name it. These partnerships are growing like coal. In 2005, it was still EUR 8.5 billion, which was 8% of municipal budgets. In the meantime, this has grown to around 30% of the municipal budget spent in the region. The total amount involved is EUR 16 billion. This is because elected city council members have little control over this kind of mega-expenditure and citizens often do not know the existence of these partnerships. There has been a shadowy world that no one can control and no one can see. I spoke with the leader of the PVV in Zaanstad, Peter van Haasen. He summarized it succinctly. He said: "Our municipality is in way too many municipal regulations. We pay close attention to all those clubs that nobody has anything to say about." It makes perfect sense for him to think so, because in addition to his work as a city council member, he has to keep an eye on some 40 common regulations. How is he supposed to do that? And how are all those thousands of other city council members supposed to do that? Professor Maarten Allers says the situation is alarming. He says: "I find it bizarre that such a large part of the government budget is withdrawn from democratic control, and no one cares about it." There is actually a double democratic deficit. We cannot call on the minister either, so not the municipality and not the minister. In short, it is a gaping hole in our democracy, a black hole. We've known that for years. That is why the coalition agreement also stated that this law, the WGR, should be amended. Apparently, there was a hurry. But we know what "hurry" means when Ollongren has to do it: it disappears into the big forget book. The same thing happened when Ollongren announced a law on the right to challenge. We never heard about that again. Or just like Ollongren at the General Reviews was asked to map the problem of population growth. Never heard of it. And just like Ollongren put on big pants about the fake news. Never heard from him again. For four years, our hearts were full of expectation. How was she gonna wash this piggy? We watched our inbox for four years, checked what came in to the committee, pinned the papers. But nothing, nada, nope. But then, Mr. Chairman, far in injury time, when the cabinet was already outgoing, even far after the elections, the minister comes. Well, well, well, well. We'd already given up on it. The sense of urgency is apparently enormous. That coalition agreement was called "Confidence in the future." Well, that future has taken a long time. In the meantime, Mrs Ollongren has undermined democracy, abolished the referendum and destroyed 40 municipalities. All this by a member of the party who was created to improve democracy, to dig channels to power. 40 municipalities less. In other words: at local level, the administration is even further away from the citizen, even further away, even more opaque. On top of that there is that dark world of 424 common arrangements. Poor officials who've been looking for four years. Did they find anything? Well, not really. What happens to bring a third of municipal budgets back under democratic control? How did Ollongren cut the Gordian knot? How was she going to solve the quadrature of the circle? Well, Mr. Chairman, hold on. You know, you're new to that chair. That seat also has seat belts. If I were you, I'd be joking. 'Cause it's not small. Fasten your seatbelts... There will be, Mr President, an extension of the viewing procedure! Yeah yeah yeah yeah An extension of the viewing procedure! Isn't it great? What is a viewing procedure? I'd never heard of it. Well, a viewing procedure is a little polling with city council members what they think. That's all. That procedure is now being poured into concrete. Where were you when you heard it? It's hot air. Not anymore. And what if those city council members and members of other city councils disagree? There will also be no more than the possibility of setting up a Joint Consultative Commission. There! Thorbecke is finally put in the shadows. It's a real commission. Go ahead! It also sets up something called 'active disclosure'. Then I think: is there such a thing as a passive disclosure obligation or something? The Council of State writes: what is the difference with the already existing intelligence obligation? The answer: there is no difference. That's my own answer. Pooh, pooh, a little college from B and W informs anyway. It's too much of your honor to keep things from me, isn't it? It's fine to put it in the law. That's great fun, but in practice nothing changes at all. Mr. Chairman. Another "powerful" measure: the local audit offices can now monitor these regions. They can do that all the time, if they want to. Therefore, in summary, the Council of State says, at most, some marginal changes. That Council of State is also led by a D66 man, who has been parachuted by party member Ollongren without any parliamentary approval, but even that Council of State reads the plan of Ollongren gawking and is not impressed at all. Mr. Chairman. Much has not been done by Ollongren in recent years. She's abolished a few things, like the referendum. She's demolished 40 municipalities. Plus some marginal things she sent to the Chamber; this is one of them. This is just as crazy as its recent proposal that constitutional reforms should take place in the second term in the united assembly. No one could find out what that would change in practice, not even this minister. No wonder; it's just another piece of shit like today's law. It is not perceptible with the naked eye, just as the naked eye does not detect exactly what Ollongren has contributed to our democracy. The only reason we will remember her as a group is that she compared the PVV in her Hannie Schaftlecture to Nazis. D66s are very inclusive and very tolerant. Mr. Chairman. I'll end up with a personal confession I've made before. In the year of our Lord 1990 I graduated in political science from the University of Amsterdam. My graduation thesis was about that law common arrangements. So the WGR has been my lust and my life for 31 years. I've told you that before. Then Mr Van Raak came forward to demand that my graduation thesis be part of the Acts, but I couldn't find her anywhere in the attic. I have no idea what I've been saying there either. I hear you say "at least it must have been brilliant." Thank you for your support, but the WGR as I examined it 31 years ago was another one. There were about 40 regions at the time; I lost the number. All cooperation was to take place in those regions. I spent six months in the Department of the Interior before my investigation. Then I moved to America and lost track of that law. It went downhill right away. Yeah, that's how it works. Those fixed regions have fallen. That's too bad, after all. The fitting of common activities within such a region can be difficult. When it comes to paying for a pool, two villages are enough. On the contrary, other facilities require a much larger scale. So you're putting things together that often don't fit together. But that old structure of the Common Schemes Act 1985 did have an advantage. It was a recognizable unit, a recognizable region, which had a name and an address. The Regional Consultation Amsterdam or the Public Body Rijnmond were examples of this. And at least they had some democratic legitimacy or they were in the process of organizing it. In other words: the quadrature of the circle had been solved before. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u16	Thank you to Mr Bosma. The microphone will be cleaned for a while. Meanwhile, I am going to invite Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks to come to the chair for her first term. Mrs Bromet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was also a city council member and alderman, from the municipality of Waterland, a municipality north of Amsterdam with 18,000 inhabitants. We had several common arrangements there, because it was impossible to organize the GGD or the archive as a municipality itself. We also had them to participate in public transport in the transport region or in the security region or to maintain recreational areas that crossed municipality boundaries. We could not afford to have our own Ombudsman; that is why we were in a common scheme, Ombudsman. We had also invested the decentralisations in the social domain in a common arrangement, because it was usually impossible to do so with a municipality of 18,000 inhabitants all by itself. Public education was such an example of a common system. And as a councilman, did I have a lot of fun with that? Because I found the debate on these common arrangements really very boring. You questioned the portfolio holder, the alderman, about what he was going to do in that consultation, about what he was going to say on behalf of the city council. And he or she did or didn't; you couldn't control that. In hindsight, you asked, "How hard did you play that?" "Yes, I've lost it..." And that's what you had to do with it. And, of course, the budgets came by once a year, and they actually went by like a hammer piece. As an alderman, I have had the pleasure of abolishing one common rule. That wasn't easy; we've been working on that for four years. However, as a result of decentralisation, municipalities, provinces and water authorities have recently been given more and more tasks. These tasks, which often relate to the provision of services to citizens, have two basic aspects: on the one hand, policy must be made and on the other hand, policy must be implemented. And many municipalities, such as my municipality of Waterland, cannot do that at all, because they have too small an administrative apparatus or because they do not have the geographical scale to carry out these tasks themselves. In addition, it is also logical that municipalities work together with each other and with provinces and water boards to make policies and implement them. So GroenLinks finds it quite logical that there are common arrangements. But the question is, of course, how these often regional levels of government are organised in such a way that they can also work effectively, and that local and regional democracy ultimately retains the power to decide, the provision of services to citizens is secured and citizens can also participate if they so wish. We have seen in recent years that there have been increasing concerns about the democratic legitimacy of the common arrangements. Policies and implementation are being organized at a great distance from local democracy and therefore democratic control is becoming increasingly difficult. GroenLinks, like several other parties here in the Chamber, has regularly called attention to this, and we are therefore pleased that we can now discuss this law. When we look at the bill, we see a series of changes that we can say are a step in the right direction. However, the question arises as to whether these changes will really make such a difference that it will all suddenly become very democratic from now on. And, of course, not everything can be regulated by law, and part of it will also be the administrative culture that we have heard more often lately, but the legislative changes should help. For now, my group has a number of questions about this, which we would like to ask the Minister. First of all, for my group, the question remains: how can we organise that council members can really monitor what is being decided on behalf of their municipality in a common arrangement? We often hear and see that there are questions as to whether there is criticism of the functioning of a partnership, but that the directors, often aldermen or mayors, are hiding behind such a common arrangement: 'Yes, I understand your criticism, but it has been decided in the common arrangement'. And as long as the city council members have to hold their own college member to account and therefore cannot directly hold the administration of, for example, the GGD or the security region to account, the question remains whether there can be real good democratic control. My group understands all ifs and buts of the mixing of roles in the extended local government, but on this essential point I would like to hear from the Minister how she thinks this law can help in this. Another concern of my group is the involvement and participation of citizens. For many citizens, important issues are mainly involved in the common arrangements in smaller municipalities. And this sometimes loses the involvement of citizens, because the policy and implementation has been laid down somewhere under an anonymous common arrangement. In the legislative proposal, the Minister proposes that participation should be explicitly regulated, but not compulsory. So it can also be decided that there will be no participation opportunities, which I find unfortunate. I am therefore considering tabling an amendment to at least allow citizens to speak at meetings of the general administration of the common regulations, and to submit a petition, for example. In this way, common arrangements will be required if citizens need to get in touch with citizens on a particular proposal. I look forward to the Minister's response to such a possible proposal. This bill regulates the active disclosure obligation to the councils. That is, of course, a good thing, but what exactly is going to change, I ask the Minister, who I think has already been asked by the previous speaker. For she herself writes in the explanatory statement that Article 17 of the WGR already allows council members to ask questions and that there is no accountability to municipal councils. Then what is the material effect of an active disclosure obligation? What is the possible sanction if the obligation to provide information is not properly respected? Another concern of my group is that most improvements to the democratic legitimacy regulated by this bill will only be effective if all the municipal councils concerned agree. We all have arrangements with many different municipalities. How do we ensure that not a city council or some politically obstructive municipal councils can block additional democratic control of other municipal councils? Suppose there is a common scheme with ten participating municipalities. Nine of these ten municipal councils want to conduct an investigation or set up an advisory committee, but then the party does not go on because one municipal council in a majority does not need it. Do we really have to veto a small minority, or can we? I'd like a response from the Minister. The law always talks about council members, but especially in smaller municipalities smaller groups often use duo committee members to give groups more power. I would ask the Minister if they could also sit on a joint committee on behalf of the city council. Finally, Mr President. This law aims at strengthening the democratic control of municipal councils of common regulations, public-law forms of intergovernmental cooperation. However, we are increasingly seeing public authorities working together in agreements or agreements under private law. That is not, therefore, a common arrangement. The RES is an example of this. It is not really a common arrangement, but it is a cooperation. It is also not always well regulated by democratic control. I'm asking the Minister to go into that. How can we give local representatives a better view of this kind of cooperation? How can we give them the means to improve their democratic control in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u18	Thank you for your contribution in the first term, Mrs Bromet. The microphone will be cleaned again. Then I invite Mrs Leijten from the SP to go to the chair for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was the Rutte II cabinet that came up with the brilliant proposal to establish supermunicipalities of at least 100,000 inhabitants or larger. A scaling-up discount was imposed. By the way, it still exists, but the idea of these supermunicipalities is stranded, because there was no vision of local democracy. Sneaking away, a new layer of governance has emerged, the common regulations. We just heard: there are over 400 in our country. These common arrangements will carry out municipal tasks in cooperation. There will be a day-to-day administration, controlled by a general administration. But there is no real democratic control by an elected parliament. In addition to these common regulations, there is another trend, namely that the number of municipalities is greatly reduced. In 1995, there were 633. Now there's 352. So local government is getting farther away from people. The last major trend we have seen is decentralisation, throwing public authority over the fence, with huge cuts. These are always sold with the sauce that makes "things close by make everything better." But have people really received better home care because of this decentralisation? Have people really seen that the problems in child care have been solved? Did people get a job faster from a benefit because the municipality is doing this now? To all these questions, the answer is no. Because if you have a harsh government, there will also be harshly decentralised, with a gigabe economy. Then you won't get a better government. What you haven't seen, even in the case of decentralisation, is that it has been asked: do the inhabitants of the Netherlands want this? What exactly is the view of what a municipality does? What should she be responsible for? That conversation from the bottom is not taking place, and it would be necessary; we should do that. Decentralisation has strengthened, and you have also heard Mrs Bromet's statement that there is even more regional cooperation. Because the tasks that could be carried out so much better by the municipalities could not be carried out by many municipalities at all, because they were simply too small in scale. The new form of government that is emerging has no democratic embedding. For years we have been pointing out that this is a democratic deficit. Here, in the Lower House, we cannot hold a minister responsible for the execution of that public authority, but in the city council, a city council member cannot hold the alderman responsible either, because it is in between. It is a double democratic deficit. That's totally undesirable. That's very bad for trust in the government. It is also very bad for being a representative of the people. The discussion we need to have must be about how to organise democracy from the bottom up. That's not what the bill says here today. That is why the Council of State also says: it can therefore be questioned whether it makes sense to work on legislation on common rules; this does not solve the underlying wider problems. Why is the Minister running away from this discussion? Why is there no vision of what democracy is? Yeah, and then we get some presents in this bill. "An opinion may be submitted." Yeah, but it can't be answered either. "There must be a response to an opinion." Actually, that makes a lot of sense. If a city council says, "Hey, hello, we find something about this collaboration," that partnership has to respond, so what's new about that? What is new about active information? It's supposed to be like that, right? Public administration should be transparent. There are no official government documents. It's all ours. The administrative culture that we have received here in The Hague from telling the people representatives as little as possible is being copied at local, provincial and regional level, but of course we should not do so at all. You know what else is interesting? That there will be new terms. If you get a new topic in politics, you'll also have to get used to new jargon. For me, the term "roar uncertainty" is new. Actually, that's just: who controls who and who controls where? That's not gonna be solved. It's gonna be bigger. It is made greater by proposing, for example, that council members may sit on a general board which can thus control the day-to-day administration of such regional cooperation. They will receive an additional fee for this. That's kind of a weird situation. Because what does city council member Leijten say, in my case, when the majority of the city council says it doesn't want something, when it has decided on that general board that they do? That's actually what you see in the double hat discussion about mayors. What if Alkmaar's city council says "we disagree with the police deployment at AZ's game"? Then the mayor of Alkmaar, who is also the chairman of regional cooperation, in this case the security region, must say to himself: you are critical of your own city council. How's he gonna report that back? City council members are running into this right now. This isn't how we're supposed to do it. That role uncertainty is not resolved. In fact, it is being increased, because city council members who take on an extra task to sit on such an extra board, thus creating this mixture of responsibilities, are also paid extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u20	There's an interruption for you from...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u21	The SP thinks that's undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u22	There is an interruption for you from Mr De Kort of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u23	I understand Mrs Leijten's point about this lack of clarity, but if I am right, I say it out of my head on page 22 of the explanatory statement that something is being done about it. The VNG, the IPO and Council member.now indicated that this is a difficult issue. Perhaps the Minister can confirm that the cabinet is dealing with it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u24	That's a question for the minister we'll write down. Then we would like to hear a response from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u25	It is not being resolved, because this bill in the analysis of the SP does not solve that democratic deficit, it does not shape that democratic debate about what we think is the task of municipalities. And if they're working together, what's that going to have to do, of course? How do you do that? Then who has the initiative? Then where are the decisions taken? That's not gonna be solved at all. That discussion is being avoided. The Minister receives strong criticism from the Council of State, among other things about this ambiguity. We no longer know who is talking about what, who is responsible for what and who is responsible for what. That's not solved. Of course, the IPO and the VNG think this is a great bill, because that legitimizes their regional cooperation, which legitimizes what they want. But I think a lot of city council members, as well as aldermen, if you look deep into their hearts, don't want that legitimacy. They are much more concerned with the discussion about the question: what should you arrange locally and how do we pay properly? The collaborations have only come about because of the decentralisation with huge discounts and the unclear interpretation of what the inhabitants of the Netherlands are still entitled to. We're actually drowning in the meetings. You said it yourself. That's gonna take a lot of energy. But does that make it any better? I'd like to ask the Minister that question. Does the evaluation show that things are getting better? Perhaps the way I put that question has already made the SP's answer clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u26	I was going to say that you can continue your speech. But not entirely, because there is an interruption by Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u27	Maybe I'm early, but I was listening to the speech of the SP and I was thinking about the time when I was meeting about weekly as the director of such a common arrangement. It was about 18 people with a disability and I spend a whole day meeting with my colleagues on a weekly basis. That was also the common arrangement that we ended up with. I hear Mrs Leijten say that a lot of municipalities have been dissolved and that cooperation must be more democratic. But how is that possible? Those municipalities must therefore be small of the SP, but at the same time they must also do all the tasks themselves. Some things can bring you back to the Empire. Of the decentralisations you can say: that is what the province or the Empire is about. But what about an archive or a public transport system or the management of recreational areas? You can't invest all that on a rich level, can you? Isn't that why you have to work together? Then how does the SP view this democratic division?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u28	As far as I'm concerned, you're very good at working together. It's coming from the bottom. That is not born from the necessity of tasks that you get flicked over the fence, with huge discounts. For example, a municipality can say: we have an archive, we cannot maintain it properly; how does our neighborhood do it, how can we do it right? And that must always be done with the direct agreement of the city council. I think you can handle that very well. I could also imagine that in the GGD regions. That's what you gave as an example. For example, the Public Health Act describes much better what its tasks are. This is something that was left behind in the Wmo or the Youth Act, for the more the tasks were defined, the less the Empire could cut back. I remember those discussions in this Chamber vividly. And now we know where we stand. In fact, collaborations have taken over, because then you have the scale advantage when buying out certain forms of care or organizing reintegration pathways. But the control, about which the story was that it has to be at local level because then you have a local solution, is not affected. That's why I asked the Minister: has things gotten better? Has it become more democratic? So I don't think that's true, and you should take a step back. You should have that discussion about the municipal tasks and say: as little as possible in undemocratically guided structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u29	Let there be no misunderstanding, because GroenLinks also believes that there should be as much democratic governance as possible. But also in the case of GGDs, municipal councils can sometimes be very dissatisfied with decisions taken in the region. When I listen to the SP, it seems like it's all wrong and should be abolished. But I don't see how we're gonna fix it. If you work together, there's always a problem when it comes to the question of who's in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u30	That is why you have to formulate what the tasks of a municipality are, so that you do not have a discussion about it. That discussion is now being held from above. It's run from efficiency. It is not run by the interests of the inhabitants of the Netherlands. The government services are running backwards. We can all see that with our eyes shining. When I look at this bill, I think: this bill is exactly not doing what we should do, it is therefore a waste of time and we should not adopt it. As soon as you adopt this, every discussion over the next four years will be beaten to death with "wait and see the evaluation of the law." My proposal would be that we should have that discussion, with as far as I am concerned the primacy for local implementation, but also with the means and space that if a municipality says "we can't do this," they shouldn't have to do it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u31	I do not think we should wait for that fundamental discussion, so I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. That's not what this bill says either. The answer also states that we are working on this. In reply to Mrs Bromet, Mrs Leijten says that it is actually better to describe more precisely, for example in the GGDs, what municipalities need to do, so that there is less room for assessment locally and actually less room for local democracy. Now I fully understand the point that too little budget has gone into decentralisation. I agree with Mrs Leijten, but I do not quite understand how she can praise local democracy, but then say that in the case of decentralisation, you should simply say 'this is what you have to do, municipality'. Then it will be an implementation window.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u32	Well, no. There are plenty of performances where we have said, for example, that the driving times of police and ambulances must be a number of minutes. This does not reduce local, regional or provincial implementation, but indicates standard standards. When it comes to the Wmo debate, we have proposed the creation of a municipal healthcare package. You can record that in the Public Health Act. Then there will be no discussion about what is a task to be carried out. If you need home care or psychological support, the discussion isn't about "do you need it, Mr. Faster?" But you're entitled to that. We think it's important that residents have clarity. That has always been rejected under the motto: if you do that, we can't cut so hard because if we vaguely describe what the outcome standards are, we can cut back harder on, in this case, home care. I think that a basic municipal package in the Public Health Act is not strange at all, because that is already in the Public Health Act. The performance of the GGD tasks is very often unsatisfied, but in every municipality we organise a consultative office because we think it is important that newborns are seen, get a helperrik and so on. It's arranged everywhere. Do you know why that is? Because it is a local task that is certain that every resident is entitled to it. So it can go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u33	It could definitely go hand in hand. Of course, there is also just a lower limit that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u34	But it is not formulated in the Youth Act and it is not formulated in the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u35	First, the interruption of Mr Sneller and then Mrs Leijten's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u36	I am looking to get a little more feeling about the framework role of the municipalities and the space that Mrs Leijten wants to leave to the local government to make their own decisions, perhaps with an example outside the care domain, of which she knows a lot. We are securing the results here, because driving times and such things are, of course, formulated very precisely here. Then the city can see how she's gonna take care of it, but she can't decide what she's gonna take care of. The lower limit is pretty tightly defined in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u37	You know, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u38	How much space does Mrs Leijten, who talks about a fundamental discussion about local government, want to give now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u39	I do not think that should necessarily be determined from this ivory tower in The Hague, not by me either. If a community says it's the task of a municipality to ensure, for example, that everyone can swim and exercise in the neighborhood, you can record that. Then one municipality can choose to record it in one way, while the other municipality may have another scale and another assignment. I'd be very much in favour of doing that, but as a government, you do facilitate that. When it comes to very essential services that we now see disappear, because the choice is whether the youth care or the library, I would be much more in favour of saying that there is at least a library in any community, village centre, neighborhood or city. In one situation it may be a branch and in the other the library bus, but we do ensure that we return this provision to our young learners, who like to read books broken if it's okay. You can't buy that every week as a parent; the library has a facility for that. That's what you'd do right now because you see it disappear because of the scarcity that's being distributed all the time. Of course, you would prefer that there are just possibilities to make these considerations locally. I hope that's an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u40	I would like to invite Mrs Leijten to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u41	I call for a bottom-up discussion on local government. We've already started here. I'm glad to hear that's what D66 wants. I don't think you can actually accept this bill. I would also like to ask the Minister where this bill comes from. Whose tube is this coming from? It seems to me very much to me to be something that comes from directors, managers or consultants, but not from council members and not from representatives of the people. I'm very curious about that. If you really want to have a discussion about local democracy, what are we all hearing from our council members? "We don't have the resources. It's not clear what to do. We must choose in scarcity, because the government is always making cuts. And we have to do a lot of tasks that we're not really waiting for, because they've been pushed off." So I am very curious as to what exactly this proposal is an answer to and an improvement for, and where it comes from. Mr. Chairman. I am convinced that people want their local government as close as possible, that they want to know their council members, that they want to be able to meet their alderman on the bike, so to speak. That would be very good, too, because that's government close by. I do not think this proposal will bring it any closer, but rather further away. It is moving forward a fundamental discussion, because everyone is going to say: wait for that annual or that four-yearly evaluation of this bill. We therefore call for this bill not to be adopted, but to be parked until that great debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u42	Thank you, Mrs Leijten, for your first-term contribution. The microphone and the chair are cleaned again and after that I am going to invite Mr Sneller of D66 for his contribution in the first term. Mrs Inge van Dijk and Mr Van Meijeren will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of common regulations, a boring but interesting subject. I understand a lot of the new instruments that are before us very well. However, I would first like to consider that fundamental question, and I am glad that there have been some reflections on it. Because aren't we mainly dealing with symptom control here? The Minister referred to it for a short time in response to Mrs Leijten, who also replied in the note on the report that work is being carried out in parallel to preparing the fundamental review. Then the question is: when did that moment come? When will we be able to conduct this discussion with the ammunition of these parallel routes here? As far as I am concerned, we will also have to look at the causes of this colourful collection of partly overlapping regional partnerships. Whether you call it a fourth level or not, we have to reduce them. As far as I am concerned, this debate is about scale, about governance, but also about funding. Especially after decentralisation, which has already been mentioned, the equipment of municipalities on their tasks has become a greater problem. The answer is often a common arrangement. But no matter what elements we add to it, also with this law: such a regulation remains inherently reducing the control of one's own council and the voice of one's own residents and shredding control. As far as D66 is concerned, we are working towards larger municipalities, so that the control also better coincides with the physical limits where that competence is exercised. This discussion, which the CDA in particular asked for in the past period, could also be discussed about the scope for differentiation of these tasks. But honesty, of course, commands that scaling up does not mean the end of common rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u44	An interruption by Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u45	Before this last sentence came, I actually came to my question. There are also a lot of disadvantages to this scaling-up, but I think it is a consistent story of D66, because they say: we actually want more control over the common arrangements and we do so through larger municipalities. But should these municipalities be so large that they coincide with the scale of the current common regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u46	What's funny is that you can't do that. That's why I said "partly overlapping." We've rigged up all kinds of regions that don't coincide. So that's not gonna work. Unfortunately, that's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u47	Yeah, so you'll always be stuck with these common arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u48	Yes, and with all kinds of other collaborations. That 434 was mentioned a few times. But the research cited also shows that there are 1,200+ when it comes to ordinary partnerships. So you'll keep it. Except we're gonna have them reduced by a little bit. From the nestor of the company I understood that they were there in 1985. But I do think that it is too much now and that its variety has increased the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u49	My impression is that "the nestor of the company" is not a reason for a personal fact, but that you have an additional interruption, Mr. Bosma. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u50	No, but I did wake up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u51	Ah, look. An interruption by Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u52	D66 wants fewer municipalities. How many municipalities or inhabitants does D66 want to reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u53	It's not a blueprint. I think it follows from the scale and the power of administration that has to be met, as I said. In this respect, the process of destruction, as you described it, is the scale-up of the past few years as it goes from the bottom up, in itself, a beginning of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u54	There's no bottom-up process. Those municipalities are just being forced. It's mostly the lectures that do that. It never comes from civilians, let's face it. But I want to know anyway. The old 1985 WGR, which I was talking about, was about 40 regions. I also remember a Wiegel plan when he was Minister of the Interior. He wanted to go to about 40 small provinces. Should I see the administrative map of the Netherlands so in front of me that, if D66 is in charge, we go to such mega-municipalities or mini-provinces, or whatever you call them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u55	I think you're going to have to look very closely at each area, for example, whether something coincides with a province and what makes sense to end up with. I think "it should be 40" is a little easy. But I do think that, especially in some areas, you could eventually make provinces redundant and that this scale could coincide with provinces, whereas in other places it might be logical, also because of geographical distribution, to stay at a lower number. But I think you should start, and that was what Mrs Leijten was right to say about the question: what tasks do you want to do there? Then you also keep other regions. But what Mr Bosma said, namely that it was all better in 1985 because you had Rijnmond and a lot happened there... Sometimes that may be a much too big common arrangement to implement certain things and it is just farther away from people than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u56	You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u57	Honesty therefore requires saying that scaling up does not mean the end of common rules. This research also shows that 100,000+ municipalities are in more partnerships than municipalities with less than 100,000 inhabitants. However, I believe that a further study should be carried out in terms of both quantity and quality. The quantitative question is: those 100,000+ municipalities have more inhabitants, so are they now also in more partnerships per inhabitant? Because that's what it's about in the end if you want to compare it a little bit. And the question is: why are they in partnerships? Is that a legal requirement? Is that a lack of self-governance? Or is that, as it were, to help the municipalities around them who don't have enough scale? Because that would be a completely different reason. I agree with the VVD's questions about the taxable capacity of council members and the support of the municipal councils. Then I come to the three main points of the proposal. Compared to what Mrs Leijten said, they are here for the time being, so let's also see how we can improve it. We must take the VNG and the Dutch Association for Council Members seriously if they say that this can help to make it a little more democratic. For I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who expects it all to be resolved after the adoption of this law and that the democratic deficit or the double democratic deficit is gone. Let us therefore be modest and realistic in terms of expectations. It's been a lot of times lately about this mix-up. I have to say: I have also been on a general board of a WGR, city-west The Hague countries, where I sat next to an alderman who was also on the general board. As far as rolling resistance is concerned, I'm checking; you're carrying out a little bit of a mess; that's what's been going on lately. Then there's the active disclosure obligation. Can a council member who also gets in relation to his fellow council member if he or she is on such a general board, for example? 'Cause that would be a bit of a weird figure. Then there will be a common right of investigation. All councils must agree to that before such an investigation is launched. Could the Minister reflect on the idea of allowing that to be a qualified majority of councils, so that not every city council can stop it? In other words, Mrs Leijten herself described the European decision-making that we are building here on a national scale. Then the exit, or exit, as the PVV calls it, from common arrangements. I think this is a very sensible step. I also think it would be wise to tighten up this evaluation. I therefore have no further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u58	Thank you, Mr Sneller. The microphone will be cleaned again. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk on behalf of the CDA. We're gonna listen to your first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm repeating myself a little bit. Why this proposal? It has already been said: more and more complex tasks end up on the board of municipalities and, to a lesser extent, the Provincial States and waterboards. These are tasks for which cooperation is increasingly being sought with each other. It is done in different ways, indeed through those common arrangements. In doing so, powers are delegated to the local administration. But how do you ensure that the politicians, the representatives of the people, are able to carry out their important frameworking and controlling role properly? They are more remote as a result of this choice. We can see that they do not have sufficient instruments for this at the moment. That is also something we are very much hearing from our fellow citizens. If that's bad, we might ask ourselves. The CDA thinks so. In the Peel, for example, where I came from and where I was alderman and councilman, 30 forms of cooperation facilitate around 210,000 citizens, who then return to 87,000 jobs. Add to that how many percent of the municipal budget goes to these partnerships, and you have your answer. I also know what it's like to be faced as an alderman, but also as a councilman, with a GR where you have structural annual deficits. I know what it's like to have to explain that to your counsel, where you actually don't really know how to change this with each other. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State strongly questions the proposed instruments and calls for an evaluation. The CDA Group shares these concerns. We agree that there should be a fundamental system debate, not just here in The Hague, but with all those involved, from the bottom up. It's been said by several people. It is a discussion about the organisation of public administration and how we can ensure the democratic legitimacy of regional partnerships in the long term. The Minister acknowledges this, but so far it seems to remain so. We would like to see a concrete response to this discussion in the short term, because it is also financially squeaking and cracking in local and provincial countries. The questions of how you set something up, who does what, and how you then distribute the resources, cannot be answered separately. The Minister then indicated that the desirability of this discussion did not detract from the need for this legislative proposal. She says that the urgency is high. The CDA is not opposed to doing anything at this point, but rather to pushing the other fundamental discussion further backwards, because there is also a high urgency. The upcoming budget treatments in the various municipal councils will push us back to the facts. Can the Minister brief us on the road show with the provinces and BZK that has been discussed at an earlier stage? Can she fill us in on other routes that are running in this area, which she is also talking about? On the basis of the documents, for example, I miss the active involvement of municipalities. Mr President, I have one question and one comment. The additional fees for council members who take part in, for example, the Joint Advisory Committee are covered by the common scheme and thus by the participating municipalities. Why put costs back in the municipalities, when we know it's already squeaking and cracking financially there? It would be a pity if municipalities decided, out of financial need, to cut back on a controlling task. Then let the budget cycle of common regulations be better aligned with the municipal cycle. Isn't it strange that this has yet to happen and that it isn't standard already? I was, among other things, alderman of finance. How can you make a decent budget when large cost items are based on wet fingering because budgets of common schemes are not yet available? We welcome the proposal, but we find it unprecedented that it has not been dealt with properly on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u60	There is an interruption by Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u61	It's nice that the CDA dives into technology and it's also nice that the CDA asks all kinds of questions to the minister, but the job of a popular representative is simply to express an opinion on a law that lies ahead of us. I would have liked to hear from the CDA what it thinks of this proposal. Let me rephrase it. The Council of State says it's about marginal adjustments. I called it a "cunt." It's not that big a deal. They're tiny little changes. Does the CDA agree? Or does the CDA say: well, now the problem has really been addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u62	No, we certainly do not think the problem has been addressed. We see that a number of tools are being added for local directors and council members to carry out their converging task slightly better, but we believe that this fundamental discussion should take place. We would like to hear from the Minister how she sees it in a moment. Does she come up with a concrete plan to prevent it from being 'we do a puddle and we move on to the order of the day' if we decide to do so? We want to ensure that if we say yes to this, the other will certainly not be left behind. You could say we're not doing anything right now. But, yeah, it's going to be over for about a year and a half before we finish this whole discussion. Then we'll leave the municipalities in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u63	Yeah, but we're not on the board of a debate center. We're the Lower House of States General, so we weren't elected here to start discussions or anything. We have been chosen to put our thumbs up or down as a result of a proposal that lies ahead of us. We're dealing with a bill now. The CDA seems to go along with this, but the CDA can't help but conclude that the changes are marginal, that they can't be seen with the naked eye and that things that have been going on in practice for a long time are now laid down in the law? You're sure nothing's gonna change, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u64	We see with the naked eye that a number of additional instruments are being added. I think it is particularly important that such a city council is aware at all that there are these instruments and how they should use them. Work pressure's high. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ze hebben al veel op hun bordje liggen en dit komt er nog bij.]] So we say: facilitate them now, but above all proceed very quickly with this fundamental discussion. You can say 'no talk club', but we will also have to talk to those local authorities to know if we are coming up with a proposal, say yes to a proposal, which has really helped the municipalities. So yeah, that chat club we're gonna have to be for a while, but less here and more out on the street with the local drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u65	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u66	As far as the SP is concerned, not only with the drivers, but especially with the inhabitants of our country. Let us not forget that when we have this broader discussion. What does the CDA think of the timeliness, if you first have to have that discussion and now it is laid down in a law that you actually legitimize the emergence of that additional layer of administration? Because that's nothing but this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u67	It is precisely with this fundamental discussion that we must determine what the legitimacy and organisation of that administration should ultimately be: with or without GR? I have also been in many GR's that just functioned well and something that is good, we don't have to throw away in advance. When local authorities say "these forms of GR's we are very happy and fine and we can do very well with that," I think we should just remain open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u68	Of course, that wasn't my question. My question was: what if you think that discussion should be held? You say that the water is on the lips of the congregations, so that must be done. Then here we have a bill dealing with views, active information obligations and the right to research. That doesn't solve all that. The Council of State also says that it does not respond to the wide-ranging debate that should be held here. How does the CDA feel about voting on this bill next week, but we are still totally staring at this other important task for this minister and we are therefore losing a great deal of time and energy by having to adopt this so-called hallelujah story, which is left behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u69	As a former alderman, I actually think that this discussion should have been held here years ago. Because I've been patching up my budgets for years with all kinds of resources, ways, OZB increases, and motions of mistrust because we have to shut down pools. So I think this discussion should have taken place years ago. But it doesn't seem to have happened, so we're going to have to do it today with what's going on. And we will have to ensure urgency in this other discussion, and we will have to ensure that something does come up very quickly. That's how I stand today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u70	Then I would like to inform the CDA Group and, above all, the experienced expert Mrs Van Dijk that you will remove that urgency completely if you adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u71	You can also...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u72	Wait, wait, wait, let Mrs. Leijten finish her interruption first. Then you will have the floor again, Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u73	You can also say to Mrs Ollongren: 'We are going to deal with that bill and/or adopt it once if we have that other proposal.' Well, we're doing treatment right now. So you can say, 'We're going to take it if we have that other proposal.' Because we only really need that other proposal in those city councils. And I'm so afraid that the adoption of this bill will become one big pubic. That's the experience I have here. So the same frustration you've experienced at local level, I've always had here. Then they say, "No, we just took something, so wait and see." Then we could, with this bill in our hands, actually force this outgoing minister, and say to her, 'Start that discussion and let's decide first'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u74	I think I've listened carefully, and I think almost everyone here is saying the same thing. We say that we need to have this discussion, we need to have it quickly, because decisions must be taken quickly. So it is also up to us to prevent this discussion from taking place and not to take those decisions. At least I think this is a responsibility of ours, of the Chamber. We must say to the minister: "This is what we need and need our local government, and this is what we are going to stand for together." At least I feel that responsibility, and I have heard it from several spokesmen, who I think are exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u75	There is an interruption by Mr De Kort of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u76	Nice to interrupt Mrs Van Dijk, because the last time I did that, we were in a common arrangement in Southeast Brabant together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u78	In my own words, in summary, the CDA says that it is a step in the right direction. Do you agree with the VVD that it would be good if we looked at the effects and reported annually to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u79	Reporting annually is fun, but I wouldn't wait for it. I wouldn't want to run for a year and then decide if we're going to have that discussion with each other. I repeat that I think that we should have had that discussion by now, because I really think that we have been leaving these municipalities in the cold for years. So I think we should do it in parallel. Now give the municipalities a few handles so that they can have a little more grip, but we should also, rather yesterday than today, start that fundamental discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u80	Thank you. That is also what I believe was the interruption that you could not put together in the common arrangement. I would like to thank Mrs Van Dijk for her first-term contribution. We are going to see the last speaker in the first term, Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy. After the microphone has been cleaned, he can sit behind the speaker seat. It's also his maiden speech. In this room it is customary that when a maiden speech is made, the member enjoys the privilege not to be interrupted. Mr. Van Meijeren, go ahead for your very first speech in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill aimed at strengthening democracy. That is a very desirable objective which is also very close to my heart. Because if our democracy were to function properly at the moment, I would never have gone into politics. When I left high school in 2006, I was still under the impression that we live in a fantastic democracy. I simply didn't know any better. We have a parliament here, we can go to the ballot box, we have judges, we have a Constitution and we have fundamental rights; what more does a person want? It was only during my law school in Nijmegen that I found out that this is all pure appearance. After all, I started to think about the question: what is democracy? Is the will of the people at the moment decisive for the policy that is being pursued in the Netherlands? Unfortunately, I had to say that the Netherlands is a lot less democratic than I wanted to believe my entire childhood. Once every four years, Dutch people can go to the polls and choose one of the candidates of their preference. And those candidates are all part of the political groups again. And these groups are going to try to help a government, which can then make policies for a period of four years. But the will of the Dutch, the will of the electorate, is completely clouded in this process of compromise on compromise. If the final policy is not representative of the will of the Dutch people, then there is nothing that Dutch people can do about it. Then they'll have to wait until four years later for them to go back to the ballot box. To the extent that the will of the population still stands out in the policy that is being made here, it is actually a wash nose. We have less and less to say about what is happening in our country. The highest laws in force in the Netherlands today are not made by us. They are not made by Dutch people at all. No, today our highest laws, laws above our Constitution, are made by EU Commissioners from countries like Bulgaria and Romania. We didn't choose them. We have no idea who they are. They don't have to answer because we can't send them away. Then I hear some people think: "But Mr Van Meijeren, we have a European Parliament and we can go to the ballot box for that, right? Surely these hundreds of MEPs will ensure that our interests are taken care of?' But unfortunately, if possible, the European Parliament is even more a sham parliament than the Dutch Parliament. EU parliamentarians do not have the right to make their own laws. Only the unelected Commissioners can do that. Nor can EU MEPs send home a Commissioner who does not do his job or who no longer trusts them. They can only applaud the Commission's proposals. To keep them happy, they are pampered with sky-high salaries, expenses, luxury dinners and business trips. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the proposal. With all the problems I have just mentioned, you might expect me to be very pleased with Minister Ollongren's proposal to strengthen our democracy. But I hope you will also understand that I have some doubts about the proposal. I've looked at it with some scepticism. After all, we are talking here about the minister who has repeatedly shown that he does not talk very much about democracy. The first thing she did after her installation was to abolish the consultative referendum. That was about the last bit of real democracy we had in this country. Then she started her war against freedom of speech by making preparations to banish unpleasant opinions from the public debate. And when Prime Minister Rutte and Minister De Jonge carried out completely disproportionate fundamental rights restrictions under the guise of corona and which also repeatedly extended, Minister Ollongren, who is responsible for the protection of our fundamental rights, was nowhere to be seen. When peaceful protesters were bludgeoned against that policy like seals and beaten up by the order forces of Minister Grapperhaus, Minister Ollongren remained silent. And this minister is now coming up with a proposal to strengthen our democracy? Absolutely unbelievable. Nevertheless, I have studied the proposal with great interest. Unfortunately, my scepticism turned out to be justified. It is a marginal improvement of the Common Schemes Act, but as such it is antidemocratic. We agreed a long time ago in the Netherlands, in the year 1848, that decisions are taken in three levels of government: the municipalities, the provinces and the Empire. For this, Dutch people can go to the ballot box. For example, decisions are taken by democratically legitimised bodies, which can be dealt with in elections. That's the House of Thorbecke. However, this whole idea of common rules bypasses this fundamental starting point of our democracy. In fact, in a nutshell, municipalities can agree to create a new entity, a new layer of administration, in order to transfer tasks and powers to it and appoint new directors who will then take decisions, supposedly to represent the interests of that municipality. But the problem of this method is already being guessed: the new entity, this new layer of governance, is not democratically legitimized and is not directly controlled by a public representative body. In recent years, we have seen the trend of increasing and increasing number of decisions being taken by these new entities. Think of the security regions and the metropolis regions. But this also happens outside the WGR, as with the Regional Energy Strategies. Of course, it is tempting for municipalities to have unpopular decisions taken by other entities. For example, it is excluded from the direct control of municipal councils. And if decisions provoke too much resistance or are completely insane, then these municipalities can say that they themselves would have wanted it very differently, but that it has all been agreed in a regional context. With the advent of more and more regional administrative entities, for which no one can go to the ballot box and where there is no democratic control, there has been a major democratic deficit. The Council of State has also pointed out these democratic shortcomings, to which the government has decided to "improve," but the improvements proposed are marginal. The Council of State also calls them "marginal." A viewing procedure here, a participation process there, an active information obligation; it is actually what we see very often when it is proposed to "improve" our democracy. People can talk, but they can't decide. The Council of State also calls the proposed measures "marginal" and points out that in some areas the procedures are becoming more complex. He recommended that a fundamental discussion be held on the democratic legitimacy of these regional levels of government, but the government believes that this can wait and comes up with this cloth for bleeding. At the bottom of the line, we will reluctantly support this proposal. A tissue for bleeding is better than no tissue for bleeding, but it doesn't stop the cause of the bleeding. This proposal has really little to do with strengthening our democracy. If Minister Ollongren really wants to strengthen democracy, she will have to come up with something better: referenda, elected mayors or other proposals that really give citizens more control. So that people can not only talk to them, but also decide with them. Because that's real democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u82	Then I would like to thank Mr Van Meijeren and would be the first to congratulate him on his maiden speech. We look forward to his further contributions to this Chamber. I have agreed with Mr Van Meijeren that there will be no congratulations in the Chamber. The Minister needs ten minutes to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u83	The next item is the amendment of the Common Regulations Act and some other laws relating to strengthening the democratic legitimacy of common regulations. We have arrived at the answer from the cabinet in the first term. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Van Meijeren on his maiden speech and thank the others for their contribution in the first term. Indeed, it concerns the amendment of the Common Regulations Act, i.e. the WGR. Because everyone, at least as far as relevant, reported for themselves whether or not they had any involvement in it, I will do the same. As an alderman, I also dealt with WGRs, so in that sense I am also an expert in experience, just like some here. In fact, I am also saying that, in my view, this does not come out of the blue, not only because it was already in the government agreement of the previous cabinet, which has now been decommissioned, but also because we have seen and have experienced, in part, that all these partnerships between the authorities have really increased and that the need for them has also increased. There are major societal challenges that simply call for a common approach. This is done through inter-administrative cooperation in different forms. Sometimes this happens through agreements, regional deals or an inter-administrative programme, but it also happens through so-called inter-municipal cooperation. This has actually increased the importance of democratic legitimacy, i.e. in importance. I also think it has been put under pressure. So I think restoring the position of city councils has been the driving force behind this approach. By the way, it is only a small part of repairing the democratic deficit, but it is an important part. This proposal therefore provides not only for ex post control but also for prior hearing by the obligation to agree on the type of decisions on which an opinion is first sought from the Council. Now there is an obligation only for the budget. But why is it not there for other decisions which may have major financial implications and which may lead the municipalities to stand up for, or for decisions of a common regime which includes a so-called framework, whether unintentional or not? We can then formally say that this is a college power, which the Council is not about, but we can also say that I think it is wiser to say that these kinds of decisions affect budget law and affect the framework role of the Council. That justifies a firmer voice in advance, which is regulated by this legislative proposal. We'll do it as lightly as we can. The proposal offers the opportunity to do so, in which the participants can actually implement it themselves. So we want to avoid additional bureaucracy. We want to give people the space to make choices that fit their specific scheme and that also suit their local and regional situation. In general terms, the aim of the legislative proposal is to increase the democratic legitimacy of the common arrangements and to provide more room for local tailor-made arrangements in the establishment of these common arrangements. We do so according to the principles of the principle of extended local government, which also underpins the current WGR. So it's not a very radical system change. It is an attempt to strengthen, as much as possible within the existing frameworks, the position of the municipal councils and to create as much space as possible for local customization, in the variety that exists in our country. The proposals can be divided into three categories. The first is to strengthen the position of the municipal councils in the decision-making process of a common regulation. I want the Councils to be able to make their voice heard when they need it, so that they can also fill in their framework role better. The second are additional control tools for municipal councils, in order to be better able to conduct the conversation if things do not go well in common regulations. Examples of such things are if there are deficits or if the results are not achieved. The third is the improvement of the municipal councils with regard to the functioning of the scheme, so that there are times when the discussion can be held on the usefulness and necessity of the scheme in question. I am truly convinced that such proposals only make sense if they meet the problems that people who work with them experience in practice. That is really the case here. I say this to Mrs Leijten, who specifically asked for it. These proposals have been drawn up in consultation. This consultation has taken place with a broad group of representatives of the people, i.e. council members, clerks, directors and other parties involved in regional cooperation. It is designed to ensure that this conversation has first started in detail with them, so that they have listened carefully to the problems they have experienced and also to the solutions they have put forward. It was only after that that the bill was worked on. Then there was the formal coordination, as we always do through consultations and so on. Mrs Leijten asked: where did it come from? That's where it's coming from. I'm telling you, that took some time, too. It was very explicit not the intention to put it here in the ivory tower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u85	There is an interruption by Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u86	It took time, yeah. This proposal was already announced in the coalition agreement. Only more than four years later, after the elections and after the cabinet has become missionary, has something been rolled out of the cabinet. The minister hasn't been consulting all those aldermen and city councilmen for four years, has he? Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u87	Mr Bosma has, I believe, been looking for his graduation thesis for 20 years. I have taken the time to speak extensively with city council members and also with all the others involved. Mr Bosma and others also said that there are a lot of common regulations in the Netherlands. There's a lot of people involved in this. We're here to improve a section. I sent that to your room on June 1, 2020. It's been a while. So we've taken our time, and the Chamber takes its time. Let us hope that in the end the proposal has improved in all its maturity. But once again, I am convinced that this means that I am back with Mrs Leijten and that you should do this not from the ivory tower, but from the point of view of practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u89	Finally. It remains in the common regulations and, of course, in that law, it is about the extended local administration. So there will always be a slightly greater distance between the city council and the implementation of these powers than when it can be carried out entirely at the municipal level of one municipality, but I do think that this legislative proposal strengthens the position of the city council with instruments that are also helpful. In the end, you only do a collaboration because that way you can achieve more than if you had performed it exclusively at the municipal level. I would like to say that basic idea here, because they are there for that, of course. They're not on their own. The aim is not the common regulation. The goal is better policy for people in the municipalities. Some comments have also been made on the wider debate. I would also like to comment on that. Of course it makes sense to talk about all kinds of other forms of cooperation. It is also about regional development, which we are talking about a lot. That is indeed not part of the three layers of Thorbecke. It is often also about informal collaborations that exist. This bill isn't about that. It is part of the whole and there must also be a broader discussion about how to improve the organization of the central versus the decentralised system. I think that is a very important discussion, and I think that we should also continue this broader discussion. I think it would be nice if agreements could be made in the formation and later with the new cabinet: what is the future of these regions and what do we need in the Netherlands? But while this broad discussion is taking place, I think it is also necessary to strengthen the legitimacy of the common regulations by strengthening the position of the municipal councils. That is what this proposal envisages. Mr. Chairman. I'm just passing by the questioners. Let me come back to that point of acceptance. I have already said that we have talked in detail to council members and municipal administrators and that we have looked with them at the problems in these common arrangements and what solutions they are proposing. We have had an investigation into the council's own powers, but not into the common arrangements. Then we made those preliminary conclusions. We have tested them again in a number of regional meetings. That listening, picking up and then making that legislation is therefore important. So that all preceded the usual formal consultation. In that informal round, one proposal remained that met with resistance in the consultation, namely council members in the general board if only lectures work together. We have taken that out of the proposal. It is therefore also improved and adapted. Mrs Leijten, Mr Sneller and others spoke about the broader discussion, the road show BZK had and the vision of what democracy is. I have, of course, given that, for example, by holding that Thorbeckelezing and sending a letter about it as well. There is also a wider discussion about it. That's what we have to work on all the time. It is not that Thorbecke has ever thought of something and that we can always fall back on it, because of course so much has changed in the meantime. The European Union just passed by in Mr Van Meijeren's maiden speech, but I also mention regional cooperation and all those ways in which municipalities try to find the best solution to regulate for their citizens what they are entitled to. That is, of course, very different from the way it was at the time. So my starting point in this discussion has always been: let us make the best and better use of what Thorbecke has devised. The Council of State has also issued an opinion saying that the region sometimes coincides with the province. I just agree with the Council of State. If the province and the region coincide more or less naturally, you could ask the province to take on these regional tasks. We're not doing that right now. I'd be there for that. But I'm not in favour of working with blueprints. I think Mr Sneller just said the same thing. I think that we in The Hague are rarely able to draw on the map of the Netherlands what is the best cooperation or what is the best scale for a particular cooperation. I'm in favour of leaving room for customization, but not entirely noncommittal. Well, we could do a little steering in that. I think we are now further than when we talked about this a few years ago. It keeps moving. The road show that was asked for is actually the continuous conversation that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had with the co-governments, in which we have listened and in which we have also taken up recent opinions, such as on the information of the Council of State, which I mentioned just now. But the discussion is also about other questions, for example about the financial position of the municipalities. That's actually a road show that has to go on, because of course that's not ready. Mr De Kort said: if we are going to do this bill, it is important to know if it works. He proposed that the Chamber be informed of this every year. As the law now states, the intention is to evaluate the law after four years. The law has an implementation period of two years. By the way, that is a year longer than I initially wanted, but in consultation with the municipalities it has been chosen to take ample time to implement it. I think it is very good to keep your finger on the wrist, as proposed by Mr De Kort. Whether that should be annual, I would like to leave it in the middle for a moment, because I am also afraid of too much monitor load in municipalities. But I'd like to look at the best way to inform the Chamber regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u90	This calls for a response from Mr De Kort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u91	Yes. In any case, it is good to hear that the Minister intends to inform the Chamber regularly. Perhaps the State of the Board is an option for that. Then the Chamber can be informed every two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u92	Thank you for this suggestion. I think that's a very interesting one. I'll take that down. I'll find out, but it might be possible that we could combine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u93	Kjik on. Then the Minister can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u94	Then Mr De Kort also asked about the clerks. Over the past period, we have really invested extra in support of clerks, for example through a grant to the Association of Registrars. They are also working on the professionalisation of their duties. In the context of Democracy in action, we have developed all kinds of activities to help clerks to play a role in regional cooperation, for example through training. I agree with that point. We can always look at how this can be done even more and better, also in broad terms. Mr De Kort asked for clerks, but it is a broader point that city councils and provincial states should be well equipped. We increased the remuneration for city council members in the smallest municipalities in 2018. We've filed a bill for the reinforcement of the decentralised audit chambers. They're very important to council members. The legislative proposal for strengthening participation at a decentralised level is back from the Council of State, so I can also move forward with that. And so a lot of things have actually happened, including from the cooperation programme Democracy in action that I have just mentioned. This is also in line with opinions issued by the Public Administration Council and others, which also benefit from good support for strong democracy. I fully endorse that. I have also written several letters to the Chamber on this subject. Then Mrs Bromet asked how we organize that council members can really check what is decided on their behalf in such a common arrangement. As I said in my introduction, the principle of extended local government remains fully in place. Some new instruments are being introduced: the right to present an opinion when establishing or amending a scheme, or the right to present an opinion on decisions for which it is included in the scheme, the possibility of setting up a joint consultative commission, which acts as a sort of forward-looking post in the preparation of decisions by the Board and, where appropriate, in the submission of a view by the Board, and an active obligation to provide information on everything that the Board should know in order to carry out its task properly. In addition, there are ex post control instruments, i.e. the setting up of a committee of inquiry into the operation of the scheme and the possibility for local audit firms to investigate the scheme. Then she also asked why I did not come up with an obligation to participate in common arrangements. However, the legislative proposal does stipulate that any common regulation must agree on participation. This means that everyone is obliged to think about this issue. In theory, that agreement may also be that there will be no possibility of participation. The reason for leaving that space is because I think it would be wise to do so, because there is a huge diversity of common rules. So a generic obligation I understand that GroenLinks is in favour of this, because that weighting can actually be made by the participants themselves. That'll be mandatory with this. The council's watching, too. And Article 5 of the Constitution, Mrs Bromet, is well aware of the right of petition: everyone has the right to apply in writing to the administrative body. So that is already settled through the Constitution; this in itself does not need to be dealt with in any extra way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u95	An interruption by Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u96	Yeah, one more question about the bill itself and the participation. Is this something that applies to new common schemes, or do municipalities have to adapt all their existing common schemes to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u97	Yeah, that's a very good point. I assume that we are also asking for existing arrangements to be checked on this. But I will come back to that in a moment, after I have checked it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u99	But I would agree with Mrs Bromet that this should also cover the whole range of common arrangements. So the right of petition, the right to turn to the board, you always have. I also believe that Mrs Bromet has tabled an amendment to this section. As she put it in the amendment tabled, she has actually clarified what the intention is. As I said, the legislative proposal requires, as is already the case for municipalities, rules on how citizens are involved. This is both about policy making and about implementation. Other requests shall be governed by the general principles of good administration. That is something you must deal with as a common arrangement. And if I read the amendment that Mrs Bromet has now tabled correctly, it makes it clear that, in fact, the application of Article 3.4 of the Awb, and as she proposes, could do so in itself. Then there is the question, also by Mrs Bromet, whether duo members or civil council members can also participate in the joint consultative committee. This cannot be done because the Joint Consultative Commission is made up of members appointed by the Board from among its members. So that must be members of the parliament itself, who have been elected and have a direct democratic mandate. Unanimity in setting up a committee of inquiry. Mrs Bromet asked for that, and Mr Sneller also mentioned it. As it is proposed, with the introduction of the common right of inquiry, the joint council members will be given the opportunity to investigate possible abuses and to carry out a joint survey. That, of course, affects all participants. I am assuming that it would be a good thing for all the participants to agree on their commitment, so in other words that they would only set up a joint committee of inquiry if all the Councils, by majority vote, did not necessarily agree to it, because without agreement between the Councils, it would obviously be difficult to carry out a good survey. So that was the starting point for the proposal. Mrs Bromet asked and Mr Sneller even said: could you not do something with a qualified majority? Look, of course, we can think about that, but it is about far-reaching powers, which require a lot of questions from the administration and from the municipal councils that are working on it. In order to carry out an investigation, a new partnership must be set up, and the Council must be able to decide on its participation. All in all, it remains logical that all participating councils will have to agree to this. Mr. Chairman. In an interrupting moment, Mr De Kort made another comment on the role uncertainty. He referred to page 22 of the explanatory memorandum to the bill. I can confirm what Mr De Kort just said, so the proposal to allow council members to sit on the general board of the partnerships they are not participants in has indeed been deleted as a result of the consultation. I said it briefly in my introduction. Mrs Leijten and I also thought Mr Bosma wondered what was new about this active obligation to provide information. It's actually an extension of what's already there. Article 17 of the WGR already provides for the possibility of providing the requested information in response to questions raised. That's a passive disclosure obligation. This proposal adds an active obligation to provide information, in fact similar to the obligation to provide information from a college to the city council. It not only focuses on decisions to be taken on information, but it is actually all that the council should know to be able to fulfil its task properly. However, the arrangements must agree on the way in which the information is provided. That is the difference with the current state of affairs. Mr Sneller then asked whether the obligation to provide information also applies to a fellow member of the Council if he or she sits on such a general board. Council members can only sit on the board of a common scheme if councils participate in the scheme. This applies to a minority of the number of common regulations we know. The active disclosure obligation applies to the entire board of the common scheme and not to individual board members. Then about the material effect of this active disclosure obligation. Mrs Leijten asked what sanctions there would be if they were not complied with. I just described what it adds, but that de facto means that there is not really a sanction on it, other than that the city council can call the representative from the board to account. That's what you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u100	There is an interruption by Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u101	I understand that it's on the board, but that means that the council member as part of the general board has an active duty of information indirectly towards the board he himself comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u102	Yes, but indeed as part of the administration, not as an individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u103	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u104	Mrs Leijten asked about the point of view. Each common scheme must establish when an opinion is sought from the municipal councils, i.e. before the decision is taken by the municipal councils. For example, it has been arranged that the Council has a prior say in decisions in which the Councils consider this important. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions from Mrs Van Dijk and Mrs Leijten who saw the fees. There will indeed be an opportunity to provide additional fees for council members, on behalf of the common schemes and thus for the participating municipalities. Mrs Van Dijk rightly called for attention to be paid to the finances of the municipalities. She said that these costs were ultimately borne by the participating municipalities. That's exactly right. That is how it is now included in the proposal. The municipalities therefore also provide for better democratic legitimacy in the financial sense. This is generally the case, for example in the case of fees for additional committee work. It is up to the Board to decide whether it considers that compensation is desirable. In doing so, Councils will take particular account of the scale of the work, I think. But we already know this way of working. I do not expect a large tax on the municipalities, but it is a choice to give real compensation for that. Mrs Leijten has now tabled an amendment. She wants to delete that fee. Like I said, it's not an obligation, it's a possibility. It creates the opportunity. Councilmen do extra work. Many council members, in fact most council members, do council membership alongside their regular work. If they need more time for their council work, they can spend less time on their regular work. So, in a sense, they have to plan and receive less pay for that. That additional fee thus contributes to keeping the office of council member attractive, because you know that there is a fee on it if you do extra work. But again, it's a council choice. I think it's wise to leave them that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u105	I believe that your opinion on the amendment has already been expressed. That judgment would be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u107	Mrs. Leijten, for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u108	There is, of course, an intrinsically perverse incentive for that remuneration. Because that means you can create your own work and your own remuneration as a councilman. If you're in a common arrangement and you're the only city or municipality that doesn't want something, you're just overruled. I don't think you should do it. It legitimizes meetings. You don't have to organise a blabbermouth class, you have to organise everyone's participation when it comes to democracy. This isn't a vote. This is self-creation of new meeting platforms, because you're paid for it anyway. I therefore call on the Minister not to do so, but I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u109	Okay. First, a reflection of the Minister on this call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u110	Mrs Leijten and I look at that differently. I don't think council members are council members because of the remuneration they get for that. I don't think councilmen are gonna get excited to meet extra because they're gonna get more compensation for it. We ask council members to do council membership alongside their usual work. It's not a full-time thing, like parliamentary membership is. Council members are mainly active in the evenings and weekends in order to exercise their controlling function. We believe it is important to improve and strengthen democratic legitimacy, including in the common regulations. It will take time, and they must be able to free the council members. I do not find it unreasonable to recommend that possibility, but again, the choice is up to the board itself, because it must say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u111	Then Mrs Leijten has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u112	I would say that if you do not organise those meetings, you do not have to ask for compensation for them. Make sure you organize yourself as a city council to have a clear debate on questions such as: what should we discuss and how can we actually carry out our representative function? Because we already have too many professional politicians in the Netherlands. I would like to know from the Minister what she is going to do with the appeal of the Chamber, from almost everyone here: when is that plan coming up, that vision of local democracy? 'Cause I haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u113	Mrs Leijten, like the rest of the Chamber, has just received a letter from the cabinet. We have been able to discuss this many times. This has led to a number of proposals from the cabinet, which have been accepted in part by the Chamber. But I would say, in this time of injury of the cabinet, as someone said just now: we are on our way to another period and that discussion must of course continue. Think of the regions, for example. What are you doing with the regionalization? How do you ensure democratic legitimacy there? How do you ensure that citizens are well aware of what is happening and why they are working in these regions? This discussion continues. But Mrs Leijten cannot blame me for not presenting a vision for this. I refer to the letter, the Thorbeckelezing and all kinds of other documents that have been sent about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u114	It is precisely on this that the Council of State is inexcusable. There is no vision, there is not the beginning of a discussion. That's why this bill is actually a waste of time. That is always said by the Council of State in a more neat manner than I do, in plain language, but the Council is unbearable: this bill is not going to solve anything! This bill does not solve the double democratic deficit. The Minister now presents this as if it were hosanna, but it is not. I just made an appeal to the House of Representatives: do not accept this bill; do not stink at it, because this is not a solution to the democratic deficit at local level, the decentralisation with huge discounts, that regionalisation, as the Minister calls it. No, this is the creation of a new layer of governance without us ever talking about whether it is desirable or not. And then we're going to give extra allowances for all those meetings. Well, I know what the outcome will be. I do not need an evaluation for that, I say to Mr De Kort. They are going to meet even more, there are even fewer conversations with ordinary residents, for whom the municipality should be there, and there is even less recognition, at all, of democracy in local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u115	Then I'll go to the next interruption. It belongs to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u116	As has been said a few times, the result of the Act is common rules that more and more decisions are taken in new regional levels of government that are not subject to direct democratic control. Now I have just heard the Minister say: that House of Thorbecke, that is not unchangeable; democracy is on the move and we must continue to see how we can make better use of that House. Now I agree that democracy is constantly moving and that we need to see where it can be modernised, but with new levels of government that are not subject to democratic control, the House of Thorbecke is not being better exploited, but it is simply abandoned and actually kicked down. So my question is: how does the Minister see that "better use" of that House of Thorbecke?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u117	Last week, or the week before, I had a very extensive debate in the First Chamber on the decentralisation and organisation of local government. It was a so-called policy debate. No decisions were taken, no legislation was adopted. It was more of a contemplative debate on the basis of all these opinions, the information of the Council of State, the opinion of the Public Administration Board and the documents presented by the Cabinet. That was precisely what Mr Meijering is asking for. I did not say this to Mrs Leijten too, and I say this to Mrs Leijten, who said that this bill is the solution to all that lies in that broader vision of the decentralised administration. Of course, that's much more. The Common Schemes Act concerns only a subset. There are hundreds of common regulations in the Netherlands. An average municipality is located in 27 partnerships. By the way, that number can still be seen in itself, but it is a lot. In our view, the Common Rules Act has a shortcoming, namely that its democratic legitimacy is not entirely in order, which sometimes makes it difficult for council members to exercise their control over these common regulations. This is intended to improve this legislative proposal. The legislative proposal therefore also does not seek to put the whole of the public administration on the spot and to propose a comprehensive solution for everything. I don't believe in that either. I do believe that you must move along and continue to check whether democratic accountability and legitimacy are sufficient, including in broader terms, also with regard to matters other than the common regulation that we are discussing here. But that's what's in store here. It solves the democratic deficit in a subset of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u118	Mr Van Meijeren was just called Mr Meijering. That's what happened to a speaker before. So before that school makes, I would like to mention that his name is Mr Van Meijeren. I am sure he is used to some creative approach to his name, just as I am used to it from time to time. I call Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u119	I was not talking about the amendment before us today, but I zoomed out and looked at the Common Regulations Act as such. Do I understand that the Minister at least recognizes that the whole idea of these common arrangements is not a form of making better use of the House of Thorbecke, but is at odds with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u120	I apologize, by the way, for saying the name of Mr Van Meijeren wrong. But I just couldn't read the handwriting that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u121	It happened to several people today. That's why I thought I'd mention it. That's what I did to keep everyone from thinking that's really his name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u122	Thank you, Mr President, very helpful. Now, of course, I'll never forget that name again. What Mr Van Meijeren says is true. If you look more broadly at the House of Thorbecke, you can just see that these three levels of government are not enough to carry out public administration in the Netherlands, also at a decentralised level. For those 350 municipalities that are rich in the Netherlands, you cannot simply invest everything in those municipalities and, if that is not possible, look directly at the province. There's got to be something in between. I think it is a good thing that this Act has common rules, because some subjects have been properly anchored in this way. I think that this cooperation adds something, but I would like to see that the municipal councils have a grip on it, that they can better exercise their controlling function. That is why this proposal is before us. I therefore think it is an improvement on the existing practice of the common arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u123	I don't think you'll agree on that, but the Minister can pursue her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u124	Mr. Chairman. I think I'm about to come to a conclusion. Mrs Van Dijk has concerns about the costs. It is not that it is so difficult for municipalities in the financial sense that they would not be able to do so. They are given a choice to join the existing practice of committee work. Of course, I have also been aware of the remuneration of council members in the smaller municipalities. This has been the subject of a lot of consultation with the municipalities and also with the VNG. This should therefore be possible within existing frameworks and practices. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u125	Thank you. Then I'll look at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case, I see. I see that Mrs Leijten is asking for two minutes to be suspended. I'm responding to that. We will continue the debate at 6.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u126	The sitting has again been opened. There are three speakers in the second term. Before I give the floor to the first of those three, it is a good thing that all the participants in the debate have done so, that I honestly confess to once being a member of the Central Nautical Management North Sea Canal Area. In my view, there was no compensation for this. At least, I've never been told that. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks for her second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u127	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. It's still, I think, a dilemma: are you gonna improve it a little bit, are you gonna throw the whole system upside down or are you gonna do both? I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities, provinces and water authorities cooperate in various policy areas in common arrangements;]] [[Whereas, in addition to cooperation within the meaning of the Law, decentralised authorities also regularly establish joint arrangements through private-law arrangements, for example through agreements, agreements and other forms;]] [[Whereas the control and participation mechanisms applicable to common arrangements do not apply to private-law cooperation, whereas decentralised representatives of the people should also be able to keep an eye on cooperation of this kind;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the local authorities, to establish a framework for democratic control of private-law cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35513-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u128	Mr President, thank you for chairing. I think you're acting like you've been here for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u129	Thank you. I'll put those compliments in my pocket. I shall then give the floor directly to Mrs Leijten van de SP for her second-term contribution. The microphone will of course be cleaned. Oh, the microphone's still on. So you can see that as President you still have to build up certain routines, even though this debate has been going on for some time now. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u130	Of course, I fully understand that you were distracted by the fine compliments you received from Mrs Bromet for your maiden presidency. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van Meijeren on that, eh? FVD for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u131	You're saying it all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u132	I have to say quite frankly that the content did provoke interruptions, so perhaps we should do something about that. No, I'm kidding; that debate will come some other time. I have two motions. I believe that the position of the SP on this bill is crystal clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the democratic legitimacy of common rules leaves much to be desired;]] [[noting that the Council of State also concludes that building common arrangements does not solve the underlying problems of the democratic lack of these arrangements;]] [[noting that there is a lack of a sound vision of local government, the tasks of municipalities and provinces, and democratic legitimacy;]] [[noting that there is little research on the democratic progress and efficiency of municipal reclassifications;]] [[calls on the government to present such a vision so that local democracy can be strengthened, and to investigate the effectiveness and democratic progress of municipal reclassifications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35513-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u133	The next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the democratic legitimacy of common rules leaves much to be desired;]] [[noting that the emergence of an additional administrative layer of municipal regulations leads to a double democratic deficit;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness, legitimacy and effectiveness of regional cooperation has not been assessed;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out scientific research into the effectiveness, legitimacy and effectiveness of regional schemes and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355113-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We, too, have prepared a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for a fundamental discussion on the direction of domestic governance, involving the Empire, provinces, municipalities, water authorities and citizens;]] [[Whereas such a discussion should lead to concrete proposals;]] [[calls on the Government to conclude the fundamental discussion on the direction of domestic governance with concrete proposals and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35513-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u135	The next item is the amendment of the Common Regulations Act and some other laws relating to strengthening the democratic legitimacy of common regulations. The Minister will undoubtedly give an appreciation to the motions. I would also appreciate it if the Minister could provide a formal appreciation of the two amendments as clearly as possible. That was already clear in Mrs Leijten's case. The Minister also spoke about Mrs Bromet's amendment, but I would like to ask for a clear appreciation, including for the viewers at home. I call the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u136	I shall begin with the appreciation of the amendment to item No. 10 by Mrs Bromet. I explained the amendment and I think I saw Mrs Bromet nodding in it. With that explanation and its amendments to the amendment..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u137	The vote will be taken at the next voting time. So 10 is: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u138	Mr. Chairman. Finally, there are four motions which have just been tabled. The motion in part No. Mrs Bromet asked for a framework for democratic control of private-law cooperation. There's actually an old frame. I imagine we're just gonna check out what's going on and what you'd like to do about private-law partnerships. That way, I could implement the motion. So I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u139	Appreciation of the motion in part No. 11 is: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u140	The motion in part No. 12 belongs to Mrs Leijten. Of course, Mrs Leijten and I do not entirely agree. She's asking for a vision. I have said that this vision is already there and that the cabinet has laid down such a vision very extensively during this cabinet period. From that vision, we're working now. Apparently, Mrs Leijten needs a different vision, but I was not going to do that. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u141	The motion in part No. 12 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u142	That does not apply to the motion in part No. 13 by Mrs Leijten. It calls for an investigation into the effectiveness and legitimacy of regional schemes. I would like to ask Mrs Leijten, should this motion be adopted, if I am willing to give the motion judgment Chamber room to allow an ongoing investigation... The University of Groningen is doing a study that seems to be able to take this at least at first sight. It's an investigation that's been going on for a year and it's going on for another three years. It is a so-called long-term study, which also looks at these regional schemes and these kinds of issues. It's a little wider than that. It is a research in the context of broad prosperity. But I want to see if this could be part of that ongoing investigation. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u143	I see Mrs Leijten nodding. That is for the motion in part No. 13 Judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u144	Yeah, exactly. Then the last motion, the motion in part no. 14 by Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA. I have just mentioned the debate that has also been held in the First Chamber. There was a similar wish. There they asked what framework conditions are needed in the developments we are seeing in domestic governance. Think of regionalisation, differentiation, customization and so on. I can imagine that this motion by Mrs Van Dijk has a similar purpose, namely to provide foundations under a substantive discussion which this Chamber also wants to hold. "Informing the Chamber for the summer of 2022": I assume that is entirely up to the next cabinet. But I can very well imagine that the department which has now also started working on the request of the First Chamber involves this motion. So I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u145	The judgment on the motion in part No. 14 is: Judgment Room. You are at the end of the answer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u146	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u147	Then there is another interruption by Mrs Leijten from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u148	As far as the third motion, my second motion, is concerned, I should like to look at the effectiveness and effectiveness of regional cooperation and regional arrangements. The Minister proposes that this be added to an ongoing investigation. I always like it when that doesn't have to happen twice. However, I would ask the Minister to at least inform us whether a can do so and, for example, it can be a partial investigation which can already be shared with the Chamber earlier. Because if it is such a long-term research, where I can imagine anything from a scientific point of view, then perhaps it is possible to come up with a previously completed research on specifically these three points. I also understand that the Minister should call or write about this with the University of Groningen, so if that can just come to us in a note, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u149	This is a very justified point by Mrs Leijten. Just because her motion calls for scientific research, I thought this would be a good thing. Scientific research usually also takes a little more time. If possible, it will be in line with the ongoing investigation. I would like to take both of her questions: can it be done at all and perhaps a partial study could give some insights a bit earlier? I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u150	Thanks to the Minister. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-27.u151	The legislative proposal and the corresponding motions will be voted on next Tuesday, 1 June. Thanks to the MPs and the minister for coming and visiting the House of Representatives. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes.
