ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 21 and 22 October 2021. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is the first time since the summer that we have been talking about the European Union again. The world looks really different than before the summer. In particular, the situation in Poland, which does not appear to be formally on the agenda of the European Council, demands our urgent and urgent attention; our attention as a parliament to Poland and, above all, to the people of Poland. Many tens of thousands of demonstrators have gone on the streets to show that they not only want to be an essential part of the European Union, but also want to stand up for the fact that there are certain common values and a common basis in the European Union. The Constitutional Court in Poland, dominated by PiS judges, has openly declared, in fact, the war on the European Union by no longer recognizing the European Court of Justice. This brings the whole foundation on which the European Union is built to be shaken. In this way, Poland is trying to make a choice menu, a buffet. We may not have met everyone here before, but previous Chambers have seen the Prime Minister's statements on this: the European Union is not a choice menu, it is not a buffet. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a number of questions, first of all whether he acknowledges the ruling of the Polish court and whether it is a valid ruling, even though he has been delivered by a party court. Secondly, I would like to ask him what this means for the Dutch attitude. The idea that Dutch taxpayers' money can go to a government, to a country that deals with fundamental values in this way and with the European Court of Justice is in fact indigestible. That shouldn't be possible. In this Parliament I am not alone in that either, D66 is not alone in that. This Parliament has actually been asking for this for years. Last year, my former colleague, Maarten Groothuizen, tabled a motion to refer Poland to the Court of Justice, because the Commission did not act enough. Citizens and even judges are now begging other Member States to help in their fight against this government. We saw tens of thousands of people on the street. I think it is important to translate that sentiment into action, also because we know that stopping funding works. We've seen that before. The threat to halt regional funding, for example, led many regions to take back their anti-lhbti statements. My question, and indeed my request to the Prime Minister, is whether the Netherlands will vote against the Polish recovery plan in this situation and whether it will call in the European Council for the cessation of European funds and funds for Poland. We have seen what has been happening over the past ten months, when the European Commission and the European Council have let their ears hang over these Eastern European countries. The consequences for the rule of law in these countries are incredible. The question is whether it can be reversed. The damage is getting too big. That brings me to the next point. We've talked about it several times in this Chamber. The Prime Minister made a deal with Poland and Hungary, among other things, that we would not stop the money until the decision has been reviewed by the European Court of Justice. I would ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees with me that it would be very strange to await the Court's ruling now, that the Court is no longer actually recognised by Poland. Will the Prime Minister argue in this European Council for the use of the rule of law mechanism? Let us also now begin to stand alongside the Polish people, alongside the thousands of people who went on the streets, in addition to the 88% of Poles who do not want to leave the European Union. We must not abandon the Polish people, we must make every effort to ensure that the Polish Government changes direction and we must ensure that Dutch taxpayers' money is not used for this. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr President, then gas. There has been a lot of talk here in the Chamber over the past week about the enormous rise in gas prices. The Dutch really feel what it means to be dependent on Russia's fossil fuels. It is a European problem, so it also needs a European response. What is the Prime Minister's position on the proposal to buy gas together as the European Union in order to have more bargaining power? How does the Prime Minister view the creation of joint gas reserves and are there any discussions with Norway about the purchase of extra gas at the moment? Then there is the second point. To what extent does this Prime Minister consider Russia, that Putin is trying to artificially increase gas prices? To what extent is this price increase intended to force the European Union to accept Nord Stream 2? Of course, the answer to all of this is a shift to renewable energy. There is not one from today to tomorrow, but I hope that everyone in this Chamber who has argued against this sustainability in recent years and against the green transition will now realize what it costs. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Conference on the Future of Europe. I notice that the tone of the Chamber on the future of the European Union has changed: it is more about strategic autonomy, about working together on the major issues and about making a fist against superpowers like China. Next week, people will gather from all over Europe to talk in this conference about what the future of the European Union will look like. The first results of the conference show that 66% of the Dutch believe that the European Union should be a stronger bloc against other powers, such as Russia and China. It is clear that the vast majority of this Chamber also wants a strong European foreign policy. I would once again ask this Prime Minister to commit himself to abolishing the veto in the European Union's foreign policy. It is not easy and there are many countries against it, but it is incredibly and emphatically necessary that we do so to ensure that the European Union does not become a toy in Russia and China's playing field, but remains a player. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The ruling of the Polish Constitutional Court really puts the axe at the root of the European Union as a value and legal community. It also puts the axe at the root of the importance of the separation of powers, the doctrine that Montesquieu once developed. It is crucial for democracies that the executive and the judiciary are not mixed together, as we see in Poland, where political appointments of judges lead to judgments that undermine the direct functioning of European directives. This will harm the Polish people, but also the rest of the population in our European Member States. There is only one answer to this and that is to act as hard as possible. It is no longer up to the Commission to carry out studies or to Member States to see what they think of this ruling. There must be action. We must make the Polish Government feel that this is not possible. I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that this means that we should potentially use the whole arsenal: do not approve new financial resources towards Poland such as the Recovery Fund, and freeze existing transactions, funds, funds. This also means continuing fully with legal procedures that we wanted to use, taking into account the fact that the Hungarians have often kept Poland out of control. But there too we see new elections coming up next year. Let us try to use that route as much as possible, but that will take a while, so you will not get away from financial sanctions now. Is the Dutch Government prepared to do so? We know they're working. The example of lhbti communities has already been mentioned. If you turn off the financial faucet, they will return to it. That will also have to be done for Poland. At the same time, we see that a lot of citizens in Poland do not want to leave the Union, come in the rifle and go out on the streets. It is possible to see how we can strengthen these forces in Poland. This could perhaps even be done with financial resources, but not with the government but with civil society, for example, to people who are fighting against a policy that harms them and undermines the foundations of the European Union. Then there is the other important issue: gas. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that, in this Parliament in 2018, I warned, among other things, about the situation that is emerging. The moment you close Slochteren as a government for very good reasons, you need tools to steer on security of supply and the price of natural gas. That was in the hands of the market and the government left it in the hands of the market. Now we are paying the expensive price, now we are talking, even in Europe, about a toolbox of measures. But we could have had it by now. Does the Prime Minister recognise that we have failed to put those instruments in place? Is he prepared to develop these instruments in the Netherlands and in Europe and, in addition to the acute compensation for citizens, to work on a policy for households at this high price, an energy policy that also prevents us from getting huge price increases in fossil fuels in the longer term? Because citizens can't handle that, but it also undermines that crucial transition we're working on. We're already having a discussion about the cause. It's really in the sudden recovery after corona. But the accusation is constantly being made that it is only due to climate policy. That discussion alone undermines the basis of support. For this reason, too, it is crucial in our broad energy policy to make it more sustainable, but also to ensure that those fossil resources that we are still attached to do not frustrate the issue, that we stop subsidising those sources, but also prevent the support base from being undermined by price peaks. I hope that the Prime Minister will say more about this and also make the Dutch commitment clear today. We will probably get more reports tomorrow about what this toolbox will look like in Europe, but then we will not know what tools the Dutch government will actually use. Today, please already understand where the Netherlands stands when it comes to this dossier. I think the Prime Minister should take a look back at the whole discussion on Nord Stream 2, also rightly mentioned by Sjoerdsma. We are going to have a separate discussion on this shortly, but we are already seeing statements from the ambassador, who suggests that, if we are just as quick with the administrative handling and giving Nord Stream 2 all the space, there will soon be more gas. That's exactly where it goes wrong. That's geopolitics. Here again, I am critical of the role of the Dutch government. Instead of developing instruments that prevent us from being so dependent on price and security of supply, we started talking to the Russians and made sure that Shell could secure its 1 billion stake in that Nord Stream 2. Those aren't the right choices. I would also like to have the Prime Minister's assurance that the Netherlands is not going to press for Nord Stream 2 to be approved as soon as possible, because Putin or his people would promise to open up the gas tap further. You'll give in to that geopolitical pressure again. On this point, I would like to see clear statements by the Prime Minister on this matter. We have a number of motions ready. We're gonna see if it's necessary to submit it. I assume, of course, that the Prime Minister will listen and see that he and his colleagues in the cabinet must take a slightly different course. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u6	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Polish judge decided that Polish law outweighs European law. A real provocation towards the European Union. The European Commission is considering steps. What does this mean in the short term? What sanctions does the European Union envisage and what measures does the government support? Remember that sanctions can affect the people, the people who went out against the conservative Polish government last weekend. I understand the indignation, because the Polish Government is playing a major role. At the same time, it also gives thought to how the European Union operates. Because it is no longer a club of 6 countries, but of 26 countries. Not surprisingly, therefore, that Member States are colliding with Brussels. It's not the first time. Think of Hungary, think of France, think of Germany. So, in addition to all the anger and indignation, as far as the SP is concerned, you must also consider reforming the European Union, giving Member States more room to pursue their own policies. A new treaty with the motto: more pluralism and less one size fits all, including an exit clause. 'Cause it's missing now. How does the government view that there is no exit clause at all in the current treaty? There is not for nothing the Conference on the future of Europe. There is talk of a redesign of the European Union. Use that opportunity, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. The rapid rise in energy prices is extremely worrying. A number of Member States have called for coordinated action from Brussels. Is the Netherlands one of those Member States? Do you agree that the first thing we need to do is to control our energy sources and that European cooperation must not lead to us being forced to extract gas from Groningen? I'd like a commitment on that point. Mr. Chairman. What about the migration pact? Terrible scenes are taking place on the border with Poland and Belarus. Refugees are trapped in the middle of nowhere. Six people have already died. Last week my motion was adopted calling for aid to be allowed. How's that going? Does the government share the view that these reprehensible practices at the border should cease as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns European defence. There has been a significant acceleration in European defence. It is linked to the position of the United States, which is also known as: America first. The Prime Minister indicated that European leaders have opted for an en-en approach. European defence needs to be expanded, but at the same time more needs to be done in the NATO area. I'd like an explanation. Are we going to build and maintain two armed forces, not only through NATO but also through Brussels? Does the Prime Minister recognize that this is a bit of a double-cross? How does he prevent a huge billion-dollar waste in the field of defence? The SP is critical of a European defence. In the coming years, almost EUR 20 billion will go to defence-related matters in Europe, from arms development to the supply of arms to third countries. Can the government explain exactly where this money is going? Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the European Union is built on the common goal of peace and not on the construction of a new cold war, the winner being the arms lobby: the European Union as a market for arms companies. European defence is also at the expense of national control over the use of military forces. The French leader, Macron, and the President of the European Commission, Von der Leyen, are already preparing a defence conference for next year. The European Commission has been calling for more European defence cooperation for years. What does the Prime Minister actually think of this movement? Will he sign on behalf of the Netherlands next week under an ambition for more defence in Europe? If so, how does he prevent us from losing control of the deployment of our own army?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Kamminga of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u8	Thank you, Mr President. These are special times. Fortunately, the climax of the corona pandemic seems to be more and more behind us and the economy is also starting to rise again. That is good news, especially now that other challenges are knocking on the door and asking for solutions. A look at the long agenda already shows that there is real work to be done on a wide range of topics. I call it climate, our security, energy, migration, but certainly also putting our own house in order. Let me start with that last one. The previous speakers have already drawn attention to the situation in Poland and the effects of the ruling of the Court. I therefore agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. Since I became a Member of Parliament, the rule of law of Poland and Hungary has been a recurring topic on the agenda. Unfortunately, once again, there is a new low: the ruling of the Polish Constitutional Court, which goes directly against the foundations of the European Union and is not in itself. This is part of a trend in which Poland is in danger of increasingly drifting away from the democratic rule of law and the safeguards that go with it. Unfortunately, care in this area does not stop with Poland. Last month I met a Polish delegation of judges, journalists and lawyers and I discussed the situation in Poland in detail with them. That didn't reassure me. It goes beyond the disciplinary committee that has been set up for judges and which we often appoint here. It is also about the space for independent journalism and the legal profession. An important topic of discussion was the effectiveness of the European approach. At that point they were actually unanimous: it is far too weak. Of course, we must go through the appropriate legal procedures, but that alone is not enough. Both Poland and Hungary know that the EU's legal pathways are very long and that there is always room for negotiation. The incentive is therefore low, and in the meantime the money from Brussels is being used to raise the sitting leaders even more firmly and to further break down the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. I have already been in several debates and have heard the same story over and over again: "We are on top of it. The procedures take a long time. The flash pole's already up. We cannot anticipate the Court's ruling." And so on and so on. Although I agree with the statement that we will not help the rule of law if we do not keep to the agreements, my patience is now being tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u9	There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u10	There is a great deal of indignation about the way things are going in Poland, and rightly so. There's a lot going on there. I very much agree with that. At the same time, the Netherlands has also been reprimanded today. Has the VVD seen that yet? There is actually far too little talk of dualism in this House of Representatives. There needs to be much more room for parties to really oppose the government. In other words, does my colleague agree with me that we can kick Poland very hard, but that we should also look at ourselves as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u11	I have not yet read the whole report, because I think it is still under embargo. But of course I have taken note of what has been written about this in the media and also of the announcement here in the Chamber that it is coming. In my view, it is also on the table for consideration at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, but that is not the case. Keep me in good spirits, but I think that the report, and the main conclusion that I have seen in the media, are just in line with the debate we have had here a few times. I myself am on the new Van der Staaij Committee, although I cannot call him that for strengthening those functions of the House of Representatives. So, of course, I'm committed to that. I think it is fundamentally different from what is happening in Poland. Just that you and I can have a debate on this, that we have had several debates and that there will be a report from our own Dutch judges who look at themselves and reflect on themselves, is different. That's what a rule of law should be. Of course, you have to look in there to see if we are all doing this properly and carefully and whether we can take steps in that direction. That's what I think we're doing here as a room. But the risk in Poland is that that space is no longer there, that you no longer have that conversation, that you no longer reflect and that it is all one-way traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u12	To a large extent I agree with the VVD. Sure, you gotta be careful with equations, too. What is happening in Poland is serious, let there be no misunderstanding. At the same time, we can now call very hard for sanctions, tackle them and put Poland on the spot. That is possible, but the VVD has always been reluctant about too much regulation from Brussels and the too soon enlargement of the European Union. Do you now see the consequences of this? Isn't some self-reflection towards Brussels wise too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u13	I believe that I am still your supporter when it comes to continuing to look critically at additional accession. We've always done that in the past. Specifically for Poland, the situation was very different at the time of their accession. That makes it, I think, so sad that they're heading this way now. I take hope from all those thousands of people who are going out on the streets and who are willing to fight for it. Self-reflection is, of course, healthy for everyone, but in this situation I would say: I think it is Poland that was the first to take the lead at the time, and it is a pity that we have not been able to hold on to it. I want to work to get them back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u14	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u15	I would like to add that in the meantime the money supply to Poland and Hungary is simply open, while they are violating the rule of law and the agreements we have made with each other. As I said, I understand the cabinet's dilemma. They do not want to anticipate the ruling of the Court, especially now that the case has already been served this week. But, yeah, when will that verdict come? Could the Prime Minister say something about that? And how long will it then take until the Commission can actually stop or recover money from the MFF? Because as far as I'm concerned, there's no time to waste. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is clear that the recent ruling of the Polish court should not involve the approval of the Polish plans for the RRF and the allocation of funds in this respect. With this statement, the country has taken a step backwards rather than a step forward. Does the Cabinet share this analysis and approach? With regard to the rule of law mechanism, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is not possible to reverse the reasoning used so far. Can we not hold on to the financial resources in question until the Court's ruling is given instead of money and, if necessary, recovery? What more opportunities does the Prime Minister see for increasing pressure on Poland? Mr. Chairman. The reason I am thinking so much about this is because it is precisely because of these things that citizens lose confidence in the European Union. That is a nice little bridge to my second subject, the conference on the future of Europe. First of all, through you, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his officials for setting up these investigations. These reports show that the majority of Dutch are in favour of EU membership. At the same time, it also emerges that a majority believes that the Netherlands has transferred too much power to the EU. Moreover, even those in favour are critical of the European project, especially its costs. In several places, however, it is noted that the results are ambiguous. So the big question is: what do these comments mean for the results themselves? How representative are they? And do we not run the risk of seeing and reading our own truth with each result? How does the Prime Minister weigh that? What exactly is the government's commitment during the plenary session, and what role do these outcomes play in this? Mr. Chairman. Just a little bridge, this time to the rest of the agenda. The consultations I just referred to both show that the Dutch consider three themes to be the most important in the EU: climate change and the environment, security and the rule of law, and migration and refugees. These are subjects which also come back to the Council's agenda. Given the time, and also because a number of issues are already under discussion this week, for example, gas prices are already being debated on Thursday, and I will focus on Afghanistan tomorrow, tomorrow, on the issues that have not been discussed this week. I want to start with strategic autonomy. Mr Sjoerdsma also referred to the importance of having good and effective cooperation within the European Union on issues such as security. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to migration and access to our market. The current debate on this open, strategic autonomy comes at a good time. I support the pragmatic commitment of the cabinet. However, I would ask the Cabinet to be vigilant so that the subject does not fall into some sort of container concept, with all kinds of initiatives without an overarching plan, or become a vehicle to help national interests. Moreover, the VVD has some concern about the reflex that seems to arise that any problem in Brussels is the best and the only solution. With my group, I am not so convinced of that. Then migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u16	Before proceeding, there is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u17	You are talking about strategic autonomy, but not about gas. It's about the same thing, of course. We've been warned of too much dependence. The VVD wanted to leave it all to the market with liberalisation, but that is not sustainable in the future. We've been warned about that, too. You must have instruments and you must want to send as a government. I would therefore ask Mrs Kamminga, through you, Mr President, to reflect on the past VVD policy. Does the VVD also see that there is now a need for a more active role for the government, including in the area of fossil fuels, precisely because of this strategic autonomy and in order to combat the Putin's dependence on price formation in this world?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u18	I think Mr Van der Lee knows, perhaps even better than I do, that an analysis has been asked of how this has been achieved. I think it makes perfect sense for us to wait and see. In my opinion, during the General Financial Reviews, the cabinet has already said that it is going to look at it, that it is going to look at the next steps on the basis of that analysis. Europe also has plans. I would also have liked those plans to be there so that we could talk about it today, but I think that this subject is too important to draw all kinds of conclusions without these analyses, without our understanding. As far as I am concerned, that makes little sense, and we are really failing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u19	I find it complicated. You are talking about analyses, but it has simply been warned, not only by politicians, but also by parts of the Gas Building in the past. They said: this is about to happen; pay attention and make sure that you have instruments as a government. They didn't deliberately choose to do that. There is no need for analysis; that is just a hard political fact. Anyway, if you do not want to reflect on that, Mrs Kamminga, I say through the chairman, I have a question about Nord Stream 2. You can see again that geopolitics is being done with that pipeline. Pressure is being exerted on Brussels: make sure it works administratively quickly; then you will get more gas. Does the VVD think that this procedure should be accelerated, or is it right that it should be looked at as critically as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u20	In my opinion, we should always be critical of each other to ensure that other powers do not use things to put pressure on other countries. That is, of course, what strategic autonomy is all about. I believe that this is a broad shared point of departure. We think, across the board, that we should be less dependent. Now you draw an analogy with Nord Stream 2. I have also read about this in the press, but I think we should take a careful look at what is going on. Authorisation is now in Germany. I think they should take a careful look at that, too. However, in general terms, I agree with you on this point. We have tabled motions for resolutions on the need to make sure that we, as Europe, are not dependent on China, Russia or any other country for our basic services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u21	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u22	A little more sharpness, though, please. It is not about analysis in the press; it is just the literal words of Russia's EU ambassador. He's just saying that. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u23	In my opinion, these are two other things: that someone says that is something other than how we deal with it. So I think... point, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u24	I think I just heard Mrs Kamminga say in one of the last sentences of this block that we should consider the fact that, of course, Brussels is not the solution to every crisis. For a long time now, I have noticed that Brussels is always presenting itself as the solution to every crisis. That's what I always say here in the Chamber. After the corona crisis there will be a health union, then a digital union, a climate union, a security union and so on. There is a new union for everything. I was actually just getting the hang of the question as to which proposal of all these unions did not actually support the VVD. What were you against, then, when Brussels presented itself as a solution? Could you shed some light on that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u25	In any case, I would remind you that in almost every previous session I have asked the cabinet to be careful not to transfer those powers, especially after the corona crisis. In my view, I have said in almost all my speeches that we must be careful that it is not an automatism that we transfer powers with it. You also know our defence position. As a VVD, we are not in favour of a European army. You know that, too. We are in favour of cooperation, but there is a real distinction. I almost always think that's what I'm arguing for. Again, I have just said to the Prime Minister: pay attention! Of course, you can work together on major issues and unite forces, but that is really something other than a power to transfer to Brussels. I think Mrs Maeijer and I agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u26	You won't be surprised that I see that differently. Speaking "attention" is of course something other than "don't." The transfer of powers is something other than constantly taking a step towards transferring those powers. That's where I think it's just the crux. In every crisis, a solution is presented from Brussels: a post-attack security union, a digital union, a climate union and a health union. My question was very specific: can you just indicate in concrete terms which of these proposals you were opposed to? You have just said that Brussels cannot be the solution to any crisis, but which of those Brussels proposals were you opposed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u27	Mrs Maeijer is now asking me for a list of proposals that we have said no to, and I do not know what proposals she is referring to. So I think that is a bit of a wells-nothing, a trick question where the answer is never good. I would therefore like to continue to say that we are always critical. We are in favour of giving Brussels a role when it is more effective and useful, and otherwise we are against it. We're tight on that test. I don't feel like naming lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u29	I come to the subject of migration. The Prime Minister previously shared the importance of the European approach, but was sceptical about progress. Especially the French wouldn't rush. How's that? Does he share the view that, given the increasing number of migrants, and especially in the case of migrants from safe countries, the pressure on countries of origin to take their nationals back is essential? The agenda seems hopeful; the Dutch commitment is clear. But what is the expectation? Are we finally going to make binding agreements with these countries on taking back asylum seekers who have been tried and making consequences if they do not? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about digitalisation. This is an important issue, because digitisation offers great opportunities for our economy, increases employment and strengthens competitiveness. Soon these plans will also be discussed here in this house, in the Digital Affairs Committee. In addition to the opportunities I have already outlined, the VVD will focus on the feasibility and impact of the plans on the daily lives of our citizens and on the prevention of duplication with existing organisations and pathways. I hope that the Prime Minister himself will do the same during the discussion in the Council. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u30	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u31	Mr. Chairman. The Polish government makes Europe tremble on its foundations. The Constitutional Court of Poland, now made up of relatives of PiS, states that the Polish Constitution is above European law. This puts the Polish Government outside the European legal order. That's unacceptable. It is good that the European Commission has put the Polish application for the Corona Restoration Fund on hold. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that these funds will not indeed be paid out? What is the Prime Minister's position on the payment of other funds? I'd like a response. Last weekend, tens of thousands of Poles stood up in more than 100 towns and villages for the importance of the Polish rule of law. 80% of the population is in favour of membership of the European Union. We must prevent them from becoming the toy of the electoral battle of the PiS party, especially if that party continues to alienate itself from the European Union. How is it ensured that students, researchers, NGOs and journalists can continue to do their work to protect the rule of law? How does the Prime Minister view the complaint mechanism through the European Commission? Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to focus briefly on the monitoring of expenditure from the corona recovery fund. Member States have shortened the auditors of the European Commission's Anti-corruption Commission. In view of the enormous size of the amount, this seems undesirable to me. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Human rights are being violated in the border area between Poland and Belarus. In the last week, six people were found dead in the woods. Those were people who tried to enter the EU. It is painful to see that Poland is not alone in this and that more and more Member States are pushing backs. This is painful, especially since the European Council has not yet condemned the pushbacks recognised by Poland. I would like to hear from the outgoing Prime Minister how he is trying to persuade the Council to do so. In addition, this development underlines the urgent need for a European human migration policy. What is the Prime Minister's position on the revised action plan against migrant smuggling, as presented by the European Commission two weeks ago? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the rising gas prices. I fully agree with what Mr Van der Lee has just said about the question and the speed of action, which is now increasingly being called into question. It is now time to switch to more green electricity, so that we become less dependent on Russian gas. Fit for 55's proposals show that the Netherlands can achieve more renewable energy by 2030. How does the Prime Minister view this? We need to ensure that everyone can participate in this transition, especially the people with the lowest incomes. How does the Prime Minister look at the leaked plan of the Commission to monitor EU-wide where people get into trouble with energy prices and how we can reform the energy market? There are several ways to compensate people. Look at the European Social Climate Fund, which would be partly paid from the ETS funds. There is now 370 million euro in the Netherlands, which companies have paid to release CO. Let's use that money to compensate people. I would like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. It has just been mentioned: the Conference on the Future of Europe. It seems to be consistently disappearing into the background, while it is extremely important to include people in the democratization of the European Union. How will the Prime Minister ensure that this debate is finally held in the Netherlands? What will be done with the results? When does the Prime Minister think it's a success? Mr President, last but not least. Today, a report on the Council of Europe was published, again stating that in the Netherlands political and administrative information is withheld. Rightful criticism. As far as Volt is concerned, information on European decision-making can also be improved many times. That is why Volt is presenting today a motion for an EU monitor based on a German model. It must ensure that, as Members of Parliament, we are better able to monitor European legislation and, above all, to monitor it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u32	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Kamminga, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u33	I have another question for Mr Dassen. Soon we will have a committee debate, especially on how to deal with the EU's information to the Netherlands and what is the best point of action. I'm a little confused about why you're bringing this up now. It is perhaps a good proposal; I have to take a closer look at it. But why are you bringing that in now? Why don't you do that when we discuss that report, or when we discuss it in committee, so that we can also have the full picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u34	I believe that we are discussing the issues relating to the European Union in this debate. In the case of digitisation, too, it is clear what the questions are: what exactly is discussed, what policy proposals have been made, what has been prepared by the officials, you name it. I believe that the debate on information has also been pushed backwards and will only take place after the formation has been completed. But my colleague Marieke Koekkoek had already tabled this motion to the agricultural debate. That's where it was said that it wasn't supposed to be there. At that time, we thought it would be a good time to table this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u35	Thank you for the clarification. Mr Dassen may not know that because we are also thinking here about how this could be done, for example, because the First Chamber already has a better idea of this. I will weigh the motion, but at least it is good to know the reason for submitting it here at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u36	Yes. I think it is important to ensure that we have much better information here as soon as possible, not only at national level, but also at European level. That is why we will be tabling the motion here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u37	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year and a half ago, just before the corona pandemic flooded the world, I was in Poland. I spoke to human rights defenders and activists there. It was those human rights defenders and activists who also went out on the streets last weekend after the Constitutional Court ruled. Previously, they had spoken about the reprehensible lhbti-free zones that were emerging in different regions, and when women were deprived of the right to safe and legal abortion. They go out on the street because they're angry, of course, but also because they know that they can force change, knowing that they can't do it alone. They need us, our defence of our values and the protection of the European Union. That is why it is so important that our Prime Minister, at the European Council, but also at all possible moments, should also express his firm opposition to this ruling by the Constitutional Court and to Poland's violation of everything of value in the European Union. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the questions that all previous colleagues, starting with Mr Sjoerdsma, but also Mr Van der Lee, Mrs Kamminga and Mr Van Dijk, are asking our Prime Minister about a response. Judging is important. Words matter. But action is also required. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue that Europe should use everything, so the whole arsenal and instruments, to ensure that Polish Kaczyński and his friends are hit where it hurts: in their pockets? I'd like a response. I must confess that, for me, the attack on the European rule of law by Poland dominates everything when it comes to what this European Council should be about. At the same time, there are other important issues, which I would also like to mention briefly. This is, of course, about energy prices and energy poverty in Europe. And I would also like to talk about corona and vaccines, and finally about migration. First, energy poverty, which affects not only the Netherlands. More than half a million people in our country suffer from energy poverty. I do not belong to that, but I am trying to imagine what it is like for them to see these gas prices rise every day while there is no adequate response from this cabinet. People are just afraid to turn on the heat and fear the winter that is to come. In recent years, this outgoing cabinet has mainly burdened households with high costs and has spared large polluters. Last week, the Labour Party made a proposal to compensate for the higher energy bill by half, especially of course for people with low or middle incomes. I would urge the Prime Minister to support this proposal, because time is running out. Other colleagues also mentioned the geopolitical dimension of high gas prices. The Chamber has spoken about it on several occasions and has also spoken about it on several occasions to the cabinet. What happens if we suddenly turn out to be at the whims of Vladimir Putin? What additional steps do I ask now, when it is actually too late, is the cabinet going to take at European level to reduce Putin's energy dependence? Is the government in favour of collectively buying gas to keep prices down and finally getting our gas supply back in order? Dan corona. Only 4.4% of the people on the African continent have been vaccinated. And that's not because there are so many vaccine deniers there. On the contrary, people want to be vaccinated there, but the vaccines are not available. To my surprise, this cabinet, this Prime Minister, continues to be obstructed when it comes to solutions to achieve a fairer distribution of these vaccines. We've filed motions before, one every six months. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, what are you waiting for? Why does the cabinet ignore the appeals of the Chamber? I hope I will not have to table another motion, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister to ensure that vaccines become available, inter alia by temporarily suspending patents. President Biden has also called for this. Finally, Mr President. Last week, journalists came up with unmistakable evidence that countries like Croatia and Greece are cooperating in illegal pushbacks. Unfortunately, for many of us, that is no surprise, but the evidence is here now. At the European Council at the end of June, the Prime Minister saw no room for my colleague Kati Piri's motion calling on him to point out to colleagues that these pushbacks are illegal, unacceptable and a violation of human rights. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister: what is he waiting for? Is he going to take action on this European Council? Is he and allies going to point out to these countries their mistakes? 'Cause it's about time. People are really being treated with dishonor by countries with whom we are in a Union and who claim to share the same values. Once again, my appeal to the Prime Minister: speak out, let us join forces to do justice to those values in practice and not just on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u39	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u40	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, Mrs von der Leyen gave her annual speech on the State of the Union. And this year, too, she showed that the European Commission does not lack ambition, but rather a sense of reality. This time, the President of the European Commission wanted to strengthen the soul of our Union. It takes me a while to understand what this story would be about. A session "soul searching" or some reflection perhaps, but listening to her endless breast-soaked story proved to strengthen the soul of the Union ultimately a philosophical cover for a persistent problem: the insatiable hunger for more power. Because plan after plan is launched by this European Commission and crisis after crisis the solution is sought in more European Union. Last year, a European Health Union was announced, while healthcare is and should remain a national competence. This year it became clear that the European Commission wants to invest as much as EUR 50 billion for this mission for health preparedness and resilience. Is this true, and what does the Prime Minister think of this? Who's gonna pay for this? Mr. Chairman. The forthcoming European summit also discusses HERA, as we read in the agenda, the new authority for the fight against pandemics. This authority has already been set up, as we read, by means of a Commission decision as a service. Is that correct, and does the European Commission not go far beyond what it has to say? And what role does the Council still have in this? Mr. Chairman. In addition to a security union, a digital union, a climate union and a health union, Brussels also wants a defence union. Because what have you, quite frankly, translated into Mrs. Von der Leyen, to the most advanced armed forces in the world, if you're never willing to deploy them? Foreign Chief Borrell was a little less overwhelmed. He wants 5,000 EU troops to be deployed in the short term. A European army, then. Can the Prime Minister promise that he will state at the summit that the Netherlands will never agree to this? Mr. Chairman. Digital union is also on the agenda. I must confess that I am a digibeet rather than an expert, but I wanted to touch on one subject. In the European Parliament, a resolution has been adopted in favour of a ban on the use of artificial intelligence by law enforcement agencies. This is something that is also applied in the Netherlands on the basis of a pilot, as I have been told by my colleague, Mrs Helder. What is the government's view of this ban, and are there Member States that are keen on it? More fundamentally, is the European Union going to do so? I'd like a response from the Demissionary Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. In addition to delusions of grandeur, the European Union is also concerned with hypocrisy. Because how can you sell that the common man is being dictated to stop flying, while the President of the European Commission is making a real tour of handing out our money and increasing the budget for using private jets? Does the Prime Minister think he can explain this? And how is it that a former European mathematician did not pay attention to the correct use of taxpayers' money, but was mainly filling his own pockets? Mr Pinxten made 332 missions which had nothing to do with his work. He celebrated his holiday and went to hunting on behalf of the European taxpayer. How much Dutch tax money is involved in this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A number of Members have already referred to the European Conference on the Future of Europe. I have repeatedly asked what this conference actually costs. So far I have not been able to receive a response to this, so I am still asking the question here. Finally, Mr President. The European Union's influence now extends to about all facets of everyday life. When it comes to the European Commission, there is more and more. Our laws and rules are constantly covered by countless dictations, proposals and statements from Brussels and Luxembourg. To the fury of the entire Brussels cabal, not all countries share those wishes of the European Union, because after the United Kingdom Poland has now also drawn a thick red line. For example, the Polish Constitutional Court has decided that Polish law goes beyond European law. This is an historic decision on which the Netherlands should take an example: legal sovereignty, so that we take another step towards a truly sovereign country, our country, with our laws and our justice instead of going along with the step-by-step lifting of the nation state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u41	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u42	After this story by Mrs Maeijer, which I have heard before, I would like to look at the current situation regarding energy prices. Anyone who then looks at the UK, which got out of the Union with the Brexit, saw panic at the gas pump and now sees it on the gas market. We can no longer rely on the solidarity that exists within the Union. If there is a delivery issue in one of our Member States, the others are obliged to assist. Is that the future the PVV sees for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u43	As we know, the PVV wants a future outside the European Union as a free and sovereign country, so that we can determine our own laws, our own law, our own everything. Yes, so also our own energy prices. You know, the big problem here is that a lot of people in the Netherlands just can't pay their bills anymore. That's what we should focus on. We should not worry in this Chamber about what is happening in other countries. We need to solve the problems in our own country. I think there is another debate on this this week, I have been told by my colleague Kops, and also after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u44	If the Netherlands will be left alone, it will become even more complicated to counter Putin, Moscow. That gas is mostly from there. Then the PVV has to be honest, too. In the scenario it is in favour of, the energy crisis, prices and this huge volatility are only getting worse. Tell that honest story to the Dutch citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u45	This wasn't really a new question for me. In the scenario we stand for, we are indeed outside the European Union and can simply spend all that money we give to Brussels in our own country on our own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u46	For my part, too, there is a question that follows on from what Mr Van der Lee said. I think that what is happening in England now is a scare to all of us. Mrs Maeijer spoke in a sub-word about "Dictations from Brussels." I was actually wondering what dictatorships it was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u47	Which ones aren't, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u48	Mrs Maeijer says about which not. She says there are dictations. I think that's a pretty big word. A dictation is something that is imposed unilaterally from a great position of power on someone who has to submit to it. That's quite a claim. Mrs Maeijer says that Brussels does so, so I ask her exactly which dictates come from Brussels. I hope she has an answer, because she claims this. It's a very far-reaching claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u49	Again, which one isn't? I have just listed in my speech a very long list of all kinds of proposals that are now coming from the European Commission. Indeed, I see all this as dictatorships. If it is up to Mr Sjoerdsma, for example, we will lose the veto on foreign policy. There has been a sliding scale for a long time, and we have less and less to say in Brussels. So yes, all those dictations from Brussels... I would like to say again: which one is not? Nor should we overestimate the power we have in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u50	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u51	I have to say that there are no dictatorships, but that is an image that happens to be convenient. Everything that comes from Brussels comes not only with knowledge and co-preparation, but also, of course, with the agreement of the Netherlands. So let's not fool each other. Brussels is not something that happens to us, but Brussels is something that we make together. There will be no dictatorships; I dare tell Mrs Maeijer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u52	I disagree. As far as consent is concerned, the problem lies simply in the Chamber, because we agree with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u53	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech is partly on behalf of my colleague Mr Bishop of the SGP, who has been prevented by circumstances. Mr. Chairman. We live in a time of great geostrategic shifts. The English-speaking world, the US, the United Kingdom and Australia, launched the so-called AUKUS coalition to control China. AUKUS, a British caucus, seems to be an Asian NATO with which other countries, such as India, are also connecting. It is important to maintain political dialogue with China and pursue good trade relations. At the same time, it is necessary to counter China in order to protect other countries from excessive Chinese ambitions. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the Dutch government view AUKUS? Is the Netherlands involved in this alliance and, if so, how? The Eastern Partnership is also on the agenda. That is an important point, because this region is quickly forgotten, too quickly. We are thinking of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and also of the deteriorating human rights situation in Azerbaijan. That country refuses to release Armenian prisoners of war. The government of Azerbaijan is increasingly acting against critics. Is the government aware of that? Is the Dutch Government prepared to postpone the signing of the agreement between the EU and Azerbaijan until there is improvement? Mr. Chairman. The EU summit also talks about the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy "I think it is a wonderful term that is part of the Green Deal. Among other things, this was proposed by Commissioner Timmermans as an important contribution to combating climate change. However, a critical report from the Commission's own research centre was swept under the mat. Researchers concluded that the plan would reduce production by 5% to 15% in all sectors. This would pose a threat to global food security. What does the Dutch Government think of this finding, which puts the whole initiative in a different light, namely food shortages? Will the government address this aspect at the summit? Madam President. Finally, Poland. With regard to Poland and the rule of law, I would like to make a legal nuance. European law is based on conferral of jurisdiction. The EU has exclusive powers, such as trade policy, but Member States also have them, such as taxation and family law. Moreover, the EU Treaty, Article 4 (2), points out that the EU must respect the national identity of Member States, which is enshrined in the basic constitutional structures. Poland has a Constitutional Tribunal that reviews decisions in accordance with the Polish Constitution. The German Bundesverfassungsgericht tests the German constitution. Recently, the Bundesverfassungsgericht criticised the ECB's buy-back policy. The Bundesverfassungsgericht refers to the German Constitution, in particular to the budget law of the German Parliament. Nevertheless, this led to anger from the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. That Court demands the monopoly of law in Europe. Other countries also collided with Brussels, for example the Czech Republic, Denmark and France, alongside Germany and Italy. In fact, it is only Greece, Bulgaria and Romania that explicitly place European law above their own constitution. In Poland, appointments were made in the Polish Supreme Court. They have a political character. That is not desirable. But political appointments of judges are the practice in the EU Member States. The members of the European Court of Justice shall also be appointed politically. They're being proposed by governments. The Netherlands also does that, so our Prime Minister. Maybe, therefore, I may finally address the Prime Minister in SGP style with the words: whoever is without sin cast the first stone. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u55	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Kamminga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u56	However, a question from Mr Eppink in response to this speech. I get it, and we hear this from him a lot. As an example, you mention the appointment of these judges in Poland, but you must agree with me that it is not just that, but that it is a combination, that it is also about the disciplinary chamber, that it is about the limitation of journalists, that it is about the free legal profession, that it is a trend. This interplay is worrying, apart from the fact that the ruling that has now been made by the Polish court is in fact of a different order from what happened then in Germany and France.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u57	That's not of any other order. I must point out that in 2005 the same tribunal also talked about the primacy of European law, yes or no, with regard to the Polish constitution. That was led by the Socialist Prime Minister Marek Belka, who was there at the time. There was no problem with that, there was no scandal about that. I do notice that perhaps the reason is that there is a conservative government and that is why they say: we do not like them, they do the wrong things, and so on. But I must also note that that government was democratically elected, unless the Prime Minister says that those were forged elections. I have never heard him say that, so you have to assume that and work with that country in the European Union. It is a Member State, and a Member State also has its own rights, as I said. There is not some sort of European legal order that has been put on everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u58	It is, of course, something quite different. The point is that you are in the European Union with each other. That's where you make appointments. That's where you have a commitment. When you join, you follow. It is not, of course, an interpretation of a particular treaty or a rule. It's not about looking at that again. This is much more fundamental, namely that, in principle, the Polish courts go above European law. Especially if it turns out this way, I find it too easy to say that maybe the reason is that there is a conservative party in power. That will certainly not be the reason why we are taking action against it, certainly not. The point is that something fundamental is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u59	I'd like to clarify it one more time. The Polish Constitutional Tribunal has said that these are some provisions, some articles of law and of decisions coming from Brussels. It is not a question of European law as a whole. Poland does not want to leave the European Union either. Poland is very well paid from the European Union, will soon become a net contributor to the European Union and may then become a good ally of the Netherlands. Who knows? You're suggesting it's some kind of A-B fight, but it's not. It is not just about European law. It is also a question of the powers of the Member States. As I said, they are guaranteed in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u61	Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about the situation in Poland, which no one can have missed, namely the rising energy prices and the digital and economic agenda. The situation in Poland. What we see happening in Poland really has to stop. The commonality is being removed from the European value community. The European rule of law is built on trust with a legal foundation. When this foundation is taken away, trust will disappear and that means the end of the community. Often the soup is not given as hot as it is served in the EU, but the times of laisser-faire are really over. The Polish Government must understand that being a member of the EU, claiming the billions, demands reciprocity. If you're part of a club, you stick to the rules of the club. We are united in the EU. I refer to the cohesion funds, the Just Transition Fund, the Structural Funds and now the RRF, from which Poland receives or can get 36 million from the community if it complies with the rules of the game. That calls for reciprocity. In fact, my group believes that we can demand reciprocity. I would like to hear concrete actions from the Prime Minister on how the EU is going to respond to the undermining by Poland. Poland is forcing the rest of the Union to recognize colour. I ask the Prime Minister to take the lead among his colleagues. As rapporteur, my colleague Agnes Mulder, together with our colleague from the VVD, has already asked legal developments in the EU in writing about this. Can the Prime Minister reflect on this and answer a number of questions? First, the positive forces. Last weekend, more than a hundred thousand people went out on the streets to protest against the statements of the Polish court. Those are the people who seek to connect with the EU and are opposed to polarisation. How do we respond to these sounds? How do we support these Polish citizens and civil society? What do we do as the Netherlands and what do we do as the EU? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Then the practical side. What does the fact that Poland puts national law above European law for all Polish migrant workers throughout the EU mean? We have regulated the coordination of social security in the EU, i.e. pay and social services based on the principle of territoriality; a difficult word. The ruling of the Polish court not only undermines the European rule of law, but also removes the foundation of European cooperation, namely the free movement of persons. If Poland does not do cherrypicking here, I ask the Prime Minister. Will we continue to treat Polish migrant workers in accordance with European law and Poland will continue to treat Dutch companies and migrant workers under Polish law? How long can we do that? Please explain to the Prime Minister what the ruling of the Polish court means in practice. What can we do? Can we freeze the RFF funds for Poland? Will the MFF's rule of law be put into effect or will the Article 7 procedure be resumed? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the energy prices. In 2014, we had the last European energy crisis, when Russia turned off the gas tap towards Ukraine. In response, a European Energy Union was set up. It was intended to ensure greater coherence across all policy areas in order to create a reliable, affordable and sustainable energy supply. What is the status of this Energy Union? What can this union do against higher energy prices? Could that not be a medium-term answer? One of the five pillars of the Energy Union was security of supply. I also ask the Prime Minister how we can secure the security of supply of raw materials. This has an important role to play in the EU. This could also be accompanied by complementary EU policies for action by Member States. It is precisely here that the European sum of the Member States can mean more that an all-input of Member States. This can also be an important part of European foreign policy. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u62	Before proceeding, there is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u63	In itself very relevant questions from Mr Amhaouch, but I would also like to know where the CDA stands now. Also to the CDA the question: does it think that the time has come for the government, the Netherlands, but also at European level, to have more instruments to steer that energy market? I mention, for example, long-term contracts with the Norwegians, so that you are less sensitive to the current market price, or politically conduct the amount of gas that is in the stores. The low-caloric gas is quite okay in Norg. There we also have an arrangement for... but not with the other. Are these measures which the CDA considers to be obvious and do it also consider that the public authorities should play an active role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u64	That's exactly what I'm asking you. We had a wake-up call. When Russia turned off the gas tap towards Ukraine, we took action at once. Then there was to be a European Energy Union, built on five pillars. The first pillar is precisely that security of supply. There is also a bit of sustainability and a bit of innovation. It is precisely in this first pillar that I expect something from the European Union. With 27 Member States, you can be complementary. Which buttons can we turn on? Is that storage or risk spreading? We're still dependent on gas in the next few years. But let us not only depend on the Russians, but also make it somewhere else as long as we don't have that transition yet. Those are all buttons we can turn. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister's reflection on this. I have also been briefed when the European Energy Union has reported for the last time. That's 2019. Then we thought: okay, the rest will be fine, that will blow over. So no! We had a wake-up call with Ukraine in 2014. I think this is a second wake-up call. I think that is enough to revive this and to find solutions. I agree with Mr Van der Lee that we need to look for solutions, a toolbox or what we are going to call it, as Europe. Our discussion on raw materials and energy prices is one, but let's do a little rebalancing. This applies to a number of areas, and I shall come back to this in a moment, but on energy we are out of balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u65	That's good to hear. I just wanted to add that there was also a second wake-up call in 2018, namely the decision to close Slochteren. The debate on the energy market has already been held by several parties, not only by politics, but also institutionally: make sure you have instruments and do not leave it to the market. Back then, the CDA wasn't ready to take those steps. I am hearing a different sound now, and I hope that will be achieved quickly at European and national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u66	The CDA is always willing to name the risks and defend Europe's interests. Whether we saw it all at the time or that we missed things, let me put it in the middle, but I think we are sitting together today just to look ahead and learn. I agree. If all of us are not yet sharp enough after what has happened in recent years, then there is now a second wake-up call to be that in the interests of our citizens. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the last cup, and that's digitization. This is certainly so important for our future earning capacity in the Netherlands and Europe. The digitisation and technologies of the future are an important part of the agenda to make the EU future-proof and strengthen the EU's strategic autonomy. My group believes it is important that the Netherlands has a prominent position throughout the digital agenda and in the European manufacturing industries of the future. The digital transition is the way to our future earning model. Therefore, it is clear to the CDA that the importance of digital security in all its aspects should not be underestimated. I know it is not sexy for many in this political arena, but it should not be underestimated. Cybercrime and cybersecurity see no physical boundaries. We are calling for a coherent and multi-annual cybersecurity programme at national level, and preferably at European level. It is therefore good to read that there will also be a European Cyber Resilience Act, but if it is enough and will come in time, I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a very important global player in the ecosystem of main conductors. Microchip production is completely out of balance: Asia manages 70% of production, the United States 22% and Europe only 8%. In order to rebalancing and partially reshoring this, buttons must now be cut through. This ambition must be realised as a Europe with our beautiful manufacturing industry. The Council will discuss the Data Act and the EU Chips Act. The cabinet would have drawn up a non-paper Preliminary Netherlands' input for proposed EU Chips Act and delivered it to the Commission. The letter also announces it, but we could not find it until 4.15 p.m. I would ask the Prime Minister to respond. How is he going to insert that paper and how is he going to defend the position of the Netherlands in the global game, and in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u67	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u68	Thank you. Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands and people in the gallery. The recent ruling of the Polish Constitutional Court puts relations within Europe at a very high level and runs counter to what we have accepted so far about the primacy of European law. Like the other parties, we are curious about the deployment of the outgoing Prime Minister, but I think that most Dutch people thought when reading reports about Poland: "Is European law above our Constitution? I've never been asked to do that." The EU has now become such an incomprehensible project that it is impossible for citizens to understand why European law should be above our Constitution. The EU has become too much of a project of bureaucrats, inaccessible and often completely unknown politicians and judges to citizens. The intentions are good, but the public never really gets to hear the honest story about the European Union. For example, there has never been a broad debate on what priority European law over national law means to our country. The Dutch electorate has never been well informed about the huge financial injections of their tax money to Greece, Italy or Spain. They only see many billions flowing into southern Europe, hear promises that not a penny is going to go and then see billions moving in that direction again. Even if the electorate opposes the association agreement with Ukraine, our government will put that aside. Mind you, 61% voted for it. That was over 2.5 million voters. I heard rulers say at the time that you should not let voters express their views on this treaty because they do not understand it. Another example: a new President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, will be appointed as an outcast, while the citizens at home heard debates between Manfred Weber and Frans Timmermans for weeks. Von der Leyen was initially not put forward by any of the European parties as President of the European Commission. The burger at home doesn't understand it anymore. Mr. Chairman. Giving self-determination to Member States, such as the Netherlands, to the European Commission, for example, to extend the European Union to countries that many citizens are questioning, to comply with European law. It is all positions that can be taken in a democracy and positions that several parties in this Chamber defend to a greater or lesser extent. But you should. Go to the voter and tell a fair and clear story about the advantages and disadvantages, what powers we surrender and what we get in return. Then ask the electorate for a democratic judgment on these plans, through a referendum. Convince the man or woman on the street. I would like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister to stress at the European summit that the conference on the future of the EU will be more than a collection of policy makers, diplomats and scholars who will interpret the results of citizen consultations. Not only involve citizens through research, but put them at the table physically, communicate actively, go into the country, listen to the citizen, tell them all the advantages and disadvantages, give them knowledge. Because knowledge is essential. That's what I always taught farmers before my time as a Member of Parliament. I'm not a mathematician, but I do have a formula of how you create support. That formula is to give people knowledge. For knowledge leads to understanding, understanding leads to acceptance, acceptance leads to existence. In Brussels or Strasbourg, make sure that we have also seen and heard the housewife from Zagreb, the bartender from Dingle in Ireland, the plumber from Aarhus in Denmark. Provide the results of this conference democratically in the individual Member States. This can be done through a referendum. Of course, we will have to re-introduce the referendum. Or as an approach to the upcoming European elections. Can the Prime Minister indicate if he's going to make this commitment? Finally, immigration and energy. BBB insists that immigration flows can be prevented by teaching countries where there is food scarcity, how they can make efficient food and thus feed the mouths of their own population. Make sure they do not have to rely on other countries and use our agricultural knowledge where necessary. So also make sure that our Dutch farmers and gardeners and their next generations have the right to exist, so that we can keep that knowledge at home to a sufficient extent and with our knowledge help other countries, where food is not self-evident. Combating climate change is a good thing, but it must never be at the expense of food production. What is the missionary prime minister's commitment to this? We have seen with the energy crisis where dependence leads. Earlier we saw that with the corona crisis, when we found out that we didn't have enough mouth caps here. Learn from it, make sure that you can always be self-sufficient and cherish what is good instead of driving it away. 'Cause what's gone is never coming back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u69	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u70	Thank you, Mr President. From the DENK Group for the EU Summit three topics. Firstly, the coordination of corona. The broad introduction of the digital corona certificate, i.e. the corona pass, both nationally and within the EU, has made this not only a practical issue, but also an ethical issue. We live happily in a country where we currently have one of the highest levels of vaccination in the world and in Europe. It is then absolutely irresponsible to restrict people further in their freedom. It is not justified to saddle Dutch citizens with all kinds of hassles, with tests when they want to travel, for which they also have to pay tens of euros. The foundation of the European Union is built on the principle of free movement. Every European citizen has a right to this, not just the European citizens with a wallet or a prick in their arm. Mr. Chairman. The now dismissed Secretary of State for Economic Affairs of the CDA house has already warned us: the 2G system, the system in which you are only part of the European community with a vaccination certificate, is getting closer and closer. You're a contagion shark in advance, unless you can prove by a document that you're not. In Italy and France, this is already happening and in parts of Germany it has already been introduced. Within the EU, the idea has been slumbering for a long time. As far as the DENK group is concerned, this system is unnecessary and disproportionate, because, as the government itself states in the annotated agenda, contamination rates and hospitalisations are falling within the EU. Should the Prime Minister not be committed to upholding this right, the free movement of persons? Should he not argue in favour of making the free movement of persons easier, whether they are vaccinated or not? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point. We have seen for years that the gap between rich and poor is growing. On top of that is the increase in energy prices. They're getting out of control. It is a serious threat to our economy and to our well-being. This problem is not only a Dutch problem, but also a European problem. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether there has already been an examination of the possibilities for reducing energy prices at European level. Is it possible to buy and store gas at European level in order to prevent these price increases in the future? Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is surprised at the following point. The Restoration and Ferry Fund has recently been set up. An amount of EUR 5.6 billion has been set aside for the Netherlands. While all other European countries have already claimed this fund, the Netherlands has not yet submitted any project proposals. This fund was designed precisely to help European countries cope with the financial blows caused by the corona crisis. We have EUR 5.6 billion at our disposal, but we are not going to do that. If we can get money from the European Union for once, we will not do it. High gas prices threaten the medium-term economic recovery and that fund, called RRF, is intended for this purpose. For example, we could submit projects in two areas: firstly, in terms of compensating consumers and energy-intensive companies that are threatened with falling due to high energy prices and secondly, in terms of new gas storage facilities in the Netherlands, so that we always have enough and affordable gas to prevent the current situation. If the Prime Minister has better ideas he wants to ventilate in Brussels, I'd be happy to hear them. But I ask him: is he prepared to propose such projects and submit them to the European Commission? Surely it cannot be that we are one of the few countries that do not do so, with the argument that the government is now decommissioned and that it does not want to put up another cabinet with this idea? We have the money at our disposal. Then there is my third point. The European Union is doomed when countries conclude that their national constitution is more important than the European laws and rules we have agreed with each other. It cannot be the case that European countries are randomly evading their responsibility and duty as an EU country, but they are raising their hands as a cock-the-front if money can be raised. In other words: the lusts but not the burdens. I wonder who is finally going to call Poland to order. Now that Afghanistan has fallen under the rule of law, which brings me to the third point, we are facing a different migration crisis. An escalation, as we have seen in the period 2015 and 2016, at the time of the Syrian civil war, must be avoided. In the debate, I note that the term "care in the region" is systematically abused. I am done with this by now, because that is a distraction that EU Member States, like some right-wing parties here in the House of Representatives, are trying to avoid their responsibilities. The countries that first close their borders and refuse refugees, such as Poland, Hungary or Bulgaria, must now be reminded of their duty as an EU country. I ask the Prime Minister to do so at the next EU summit. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Prime Minister needs about half an hour to prepare himself. I think it would be more efficient to have a dinner break right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u72	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 21 and 22 October. We have had the first term of the Chamber before dinner, and now it is up to the Cabinet to answer the questions asked. The answer is to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u73	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked on many topics. I thought I would start with Poland, then I am talking about energy, migration, the Conference on the future of Europe. Then I am talking about abroad, Europe and the rest of the world, corona, and then I will answer a few remaining questions. I'll keep telling you where I am in those subjects. Then I'll start with Poland. I shall begin by echoing Mr Sjoerdsma's speech on this point. For I think he is right that what is happening in Poland is in fact calling into question the independence of the Polish Constitutional Court. It is no longer guaranteed. This has recently been confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. That is also one of the reasons for triggering Article 7. By the way, the triggering of Article 7 is complicated. You know that you will eventually need twenty countries, and it is not so easy to bring that number together. The ruling on the primacy issue, i.e. whether the European Court of Justice or, in this case, a court in Poland is, of course, particularly indigestible in that context. But that is the political reality that we are dealing with now. The Polish courts are also expected to act in accordance with this ruling. This means that the first question now lies with the Commission. Because this is indeed serious. It should be noted that last year's deal was to allow the rule of law mechanism, which is in the Recovery Fund but which also applies more broadly to the European Union's resources, to enter into force only after the Court's ruling in the case now pending. That's how it's remembered in the Chamber. That verdict is expected in January. That question was asked, too. The answer to this is therefore that that ruling is expected in January. I did not agree with that compromise, but it was necessary because otherwise we would not have had a recovery fund at all. That is why that compromise has been reached. If I had not said last December that we would be waiting for that ruling from the Court, but had said that the flash pole could flash now, before the flash pole sends fines, then there would be no recovery fund at all. That is not pleasant, but it is sometimes the reality in the Europe of 27 that you make such compromises. I don't see any way of redeploying that either. I can try, but that is not going to work because it also calls for the legitimacy of the European Council. So I don't think that's a passable route. I think we have a few things to do now. Firstly, it is very important and now a priority that the Commission should be called upon not to approve the Polish recovery plan. It seems to me to be incredibly complicated if the Commission does. Strictly speaking, they can approve that recovery plan, but I think that is extremely vulnerable politically. I also have the impression that the Commission is aware of this and that there too there is a great shock from developments in Poland. So that's one. I will call on the Commission in the Council next week, also supported by the Chamber, not to approve the recovery plan, to at least wait until this matter has been resolved on which court has priority. Secondly, of course, it is obvious that the Commission is opening an inter-group procedure against Poland because of the very serious issue that is being raised here, namely: is the Luxembourg Court ultimately the last court in this kind of matter or is it a Polish court? This indeed affects the basis of the legal system in the Union. That too, as I say to Mrs van der Plas, has everything to do with the internal market. Of course, we have put together a piece of sovereignty in Europe: that is the internal market. The importance of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg stems from this to a large extent, so that the whole internal market is also based on the same principles of law and practice. You can see it now in the discussion with England. England now wants to move away from the role of the Court of Luxembourg at the end of the day on the issue of the Irish-Northern Ireland Protocol. Of course, that is not possible, unless England says: no product from Northern Ireland will ever enter the rest of the European Union. But it was precisely the choice that was made to keep that border flexible. So it's similar to that. It is about the great importance of the Court of Luxembourg in a number of cases as the last body of law. That's second. The third is that, in the context of making the rule of law workable, the Commission has now been able to speed up the process of adopting the directives, the so-called guidelines. If that flash pole not only flashes, but also sends fines, then it is clear on the basis of which guidelines that happens. The Commission has indicated its willingness to do so. I think that's a few things we need to do. It has also been asked whether the Netherlands recognises the ruling of the Polish court. In the end, I do not think what the Netherlands thinks is relevant. We have great doubts about this, of course, but the Polish courts are now based on this ruling. That is the political fact that this is now the situation in Poland. What the Netherlands thinks of that is not very relevant. Mr. Chairman. If I may, I might now answer the other questions on this point. I answered the question about Article 7. This also applies to the question of which instruments we believe can be used against Poland, and how we deal with the Recovery Fund, the Recovery Plan. Questions were raised about the rule of law mechanism and the MFF. I've answered it with this, I think, but I can imagine a few more questions coming up. Then there was also a question about migrant workers: what does the ruling of the Polish Constitutional Court mean in practice, for example with regard to Polish migrant workers? I think that we should look very carefully at this statement first. Questions have been asked about this matter by Kamminga, Mulder and Piri, I say to Mr Amhaouch. The cabinet will return to these and other questions. I can't see that now. I understand the question, but we will come back to that in the context of the questions asked. I therefore agree with Mrs Ploumen that we must now deploy the whole arsenal of rule-of-law instruments. I do not think it is appropriate to initiate a state complaint procedure against Poland. I think it is now really reasonable for the Commission to launch an infringement case against Poland. I think that is the appropriate legal route now. Finally, there was a question from Mr Dassen about journalists, NGOs and so on. This is, of course, first of all for the Commission to act as guardian of the Treaties, in particular Article 2 of the Treaty establishing the European Union. That is at least the basis of this recital. There is also a central budget to ensure that civil society and journalists in Poland can continue to do their job. Within the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework, there is also a large fund of nearly 2 billion euros for justice, rights and values. That is the so-called justice, rights and value fund, which is also intended for this purpose. I think that we must first ensure that these social groups are able to do their job well in Poland, and that the Commission is also monitoring this. If that is not the case, it will of course lead to further steps. Mr. Chairman. Those are my answers to the questions about Poland, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u74	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA, and then Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u75	It is good that the Prime Minister agrees with the majority of this Chamber, as I estimate, that Poland's action calls for a counter-action. It is indeed the Commission's responsibility. The Prime Minister has indicated that he agrees that all possible instruments should be deployed. It lies with the collective of the Member States, but I would say that it is also with each of us. In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: would he be prepared to ask the Demissionary Foreign Minister to summon the Polish Ambassador? Of course, we are talking about the Commission and the collective of the Member States, as I said, but we also have a view, as the Netherlands does, because we are one of the founding mothers of this collective. That's mandatory, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u76	I don't think that's a sensible route. I intend to tell the European Council in firm terms next week what we think of this, also supported by this Chamber. We also discussed it in the Cabinet this morning. I think that's how it's felt. The biggest risk now is that, if you are not careful, it will become a matter between the Netherlands and Poland. I have also seen this on the issue of Hungary and homosexual rights. I played hard and hard there and put it down. I also noticed how quickly other Member States think: oh, it is actually nice that the Netherlands is doing this so firmly; that is what the Netherlands is doing now, and we can try to rebuild relations with the Hungarians. So there's a risk in it, too. We need to do this right and we need to do it solidly. I'll do that here. What we are discussing here is all reported in the capitals as well. I will do that in the European Council next week. If, on top of that, we also call on bilateral ambassadors, we are going to make this a very important issue bilaterally, while the Commission is in the process of doing so. Then I am convinced that other countries will say: well, we are all for what the Netherlands is doing, but in the meantime we can go back to doing business with Poland. That's a real risk. In the end, paradoxically, this can also reduce the level of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u77	I can imagine that risk in itself. At the same time, the countries that would think that they could now sit back are those that will not open their mouths in the Council, if I may say so unparliamentaryly. Sometimes there is a forerunner, but sometimes it takes forerunners to increase the pressure to the maximum. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to consider it in that light, knowing that I am also aware of the risks. This is an exceptional situation, which requires special measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u78	I get that. Maybe I can sketch something from the force field. You will see that it is true that many countries do not open their mouths at such a European Council meeting or do not say much at all. The countries that intervene on all subjects are only a very limited number of countries. If you look very sharp: France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands. And on a number of subjects also the Spaniards and Italians, but they don't do that all the time. The Netherlands has that ambition. Then you've been a long way, to tell you the truth. The point on such a large subject is the following. The Germans and the French look in a certain way at the importance of Poland as a member of the European Union. I respect that very much, because it is very important that Poland, as a great Eastern European country, stays at the heart of the European Union. Their first tendency will always be to condemn this. There's no doubt about that. Paris and Berlin are also aware of what is happening in Poland with great concern. But at the same time, the first instinct will be not to escalate too much. If then the Netherlands is one of the few other countries that intervene in a European Council on everything, which is very much more exciting... Again, that is also my lesson from Hungary, the gay rights and that terrible legislation on what is and what is not to be reported in the media about homosexuality and lgbtiqa. I noticed that a number of other countries thought: oh, that's actually nice, we're pulling back behind Rutte's back for a while. Then we have a great feeling. I was really glad I did, and I had to. But in the end, it must also be effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u79	I will build on Mrs Ploumen's justified questions. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister intends to make a firm commitment. But in his reply he did not talk about that, and I have some factual questions about that, apart from the Recovery Fund and not approving an application that has already been submitted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Is it not wise to ask the Commission to make an exact assessment of this? Has the government really ensured that there can be no kind of freeze, postponement in any way, in order to increase the financial pressure on Poland in the next quarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u80	I actually agree with what Mr Van der Lee says about this. I just think we should be careful not to ask the Commission for all the details of what is happening bilaterally with Poland, of financial traffic from the European pots to Poland. I have tried to take this into account in my response to Mrs Ploumen, namely that we call on the Commission to use all the instruments available to the Commission to increase the pressure on Poland, which should also be feasible; they should not ask for a unanimous decision by the European Council, because it will never be able to implement it. That's what this is all about. So I will also look at these more specifically in the run-up to next week and see what else you can do apart from the RRF, the RRP, CID or whatever it's all called, not to pay the money out of that emergency fund now, not to make any decisions about it. What else can be done to temporarily stop payments? I'll find out. I do not suppose the Commission will tell me which batches are ready, because that is confidential. But I can make them that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u81	That's good to hear. I have one other question. How quickly can the Commission act towards Poland after a ruling in January? What time frame are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u82	I can't see that exactly, because that obviously depends on... That judgment of the European Court of Justice will be delivered. The Commission has said that we are already flashing, and we are actually going to try to negotiate these directives as much as possible before we actually transfer them. So it must be possible to do so quickly. But how quickly, in the end, it will also depend on how precisely these directives are put together. But it is intended to happen quickly, and I also know that the Commission has that ambition. Because I also notice the inconvenience with that deal with the Commission. The inconvenience of Sjoerdsma, of me and of all of us, is also the inconvenience of the Commission, I see. But it will also depend a little on those directives exactly how fast that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u83	First, Mr Van Dijk of the SP asks a question, and then Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u84	It is very serious what is happening in Poland, and I also understand that measures are being looked at. But what does the Prime Minister think of the European Union's instruments for action? Does he agree with me that it is mainly financial measures which can therefore also affect the population? And something quite basic like an exit option is not there at all. I am not saying that we should use it today, but doesn't the Prime Minister find it strange that there is no such option at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u85	Of course, Poland itself has the exit option to trigger Article 50. But I think Mr Van Dijk is referring here to the option that the Commission can say: you are going out. No, the maximum that I think the treaty allows now is for you to take the right to vote at the end of an Article 7 procedure. As far as I am concerned, the country itself does not agree, but one other country can still block it. And when it comes to Poland, of course, it is very likely that the Hungarians would block it. So that is indeed terribly complex; that is correct. I do not believe that we are helping the people of Poland by pushing them out; I do not think that is a good thing. So I am not in favour of suddenly going to a very far-reaching variant where the Commission can say: I am putting a country completely outside the Union. The reduction of voting rights in the European Council is, of course, already very far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u86	I didn't say we should do that right away. I'm asking...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u87	No, you mean it as an ultimatum, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u88	Exactly. The Prime Minister is absolutely right. I do mean that, as far as I am concerned, this means should also be available from the Commission. Now there is a conference on the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u90	That is your next point or it will come later. Wouldn't it be desirable to at least put that on the table? Do you recognize with me that this is an omission? Do you recognise that this cannot be done and that Member States, in this case Poland, of course also know very well that people do not want Poland to leave the Union and that Brussels does not even have that instrument? Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that this is an omission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u91	It's not there, but whether it's an omission or not, I think it's a big one. I think it is a good suggestion from Mr Van Dijk to include this in the conference. I look forward to an entry paper from him with the pros and cons of it. Then I'm gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u92	That's a promise on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u93	I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u94	I would like to ask one more question, however, as the only one who does not think so here in this Chamber. I know Poland. I used to live there. The Polish national anthem begins with "Jeszcze Polska nie zginęła." That means: "Poland is not yet lost." If you start this way against Poland, then the Poles will put the heels in the sand and cross where they can. I know them. I know how it works, and I know their politicians too. If you want to avoid that process, as Prime Minister of the country of the premium affair, you should not take such a great tone. You can also be blamed. That's why I say be careful! It's not just Poland either. There is a great sense of solidarity among many countries in Central Europe. They're gonna draw the same card. And if you think that the Conference on the future of Europe has a wonderful result on the table, then those countries will say: no!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u95	Well. Wow! Don't move, Mr. Eppink. I'm gonna go for a walk with Eppink and then I'm gonna take a long distance from him again. I'm going for a walk with him. First of all, I would like to point out that wonderful speech by Angela Merkel on 3 October, the day of German unity. She talks there about her experiences as East German, from the GDR. It feels at some points today that it still has to apologize for the fact that it is truly European and that it really is a citizen of the whole of the Federal Republic and not just of the GDR. That's what someone who's been Chancellor of the whole of Germany for 16 years. I think that is an emotion that lives like this in many people from Eastern Europe from behind the Iron Curtain. I mean that sincerely. Mr Eppink is not happy, but I am trying to answer his question. I'm trying to choose a small flight path for that. I realize that we are dealing with a great many different emotions in Europe. You have to be very careful not to tell anyone who comes from one of the countries of Western Europe that belong to the founding fathers of the Union with an overly high finger in a general sense who later joined: that is how you have to do it, that is exactly what it is, and there is nothing else to ignore about it, that is how it must be done! I agree with Eppink that you should be careful of that. Angela Merkel's speech is very emotional, she gets tears in her eyes a few times. I highly recommend that speech, because it is precisely on this subject. She says: should I apologize for being a European too, should I apologize for being a resident of the Federal Republic of Germany, even though I was not before 1989 because I was living in a dictatorship at the time; so sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I did not live in the Federal Republic of Germany before 1989, and so was the people of Poland, because they were all behind the Iron Curtain. I get that. I also think that all these different aspects should be taken into account in a debate on Europe. However, I do not agree with Eppink in the end, because what is going on here is deliberately done and created from the present Polish government. It is certainly seeking confrontation with a number of basic agreements that we have in the Union. These are the common investors, the reasons why we have an internal market and why we all believe that the internal market is more than just a market and a currency, namely a value community. This also has to do with how you deal with the position of the judiciary and how you acknowledge that there is ultimately a Court in Luxembourg in the association of the European Union. That Court can at some point rule on whether the judiciary is sufficiently independent and can also rule on issues that Poland may not be well-pleased because they are important for the common European Union. That is a fundamental point. So I agree that we should please be careful and not point fingers all day at anyone at a different pace, a different view or I don't know. I have to think about my discussion in 2013 with Vladimir Putin about the gay rights in Russia. He then asked: should I also introduce gay marriage in Russia? I said: no, I'm not asking you that, but I'm asking you to live in Europe as a Russian, because that's also just Europe's acceptance that homosexuality in Europe of 2013 is 100% part of society and homosexual people have the same rights and duties as everyone else, but I'm not asking you to introduce gay marriage tomorrow. Because that would be the finger, like: look how far we are and do you want to introduce that in Russia tomorrow? It wasn't about that. But you have to accept that a number of values are common in Europe. Russia is not a member of the European Union, but it is also a member of the European Union, because it concerns a number of those who share what makes us common.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u96	Thank you so much for this history lesson. I think this is very important. It was the case, however, that Mrs Merkel has made a fairly good career in the GDR. Anyway, that aside. The Poles have not had that feeling of what they are talking about in this way. You can also see in Europe that the border between East and West is actually the border between East and West Germany. You see that a lot in elections. You see more and more that there is actually a gap between Eastern and Western Europe. That is a political-cultural divide. Eastern Europe says that we do not want what we see in Western Europe. Then we always come back to migration and immigration. They want to keep the lifestyle they have now that way. They're defending them. We may not be doing that anymore, but they are. That is the point of principle which they are opposed to. I hope you understand that, because it has far-reaching consequences. If you start talking about the Conference on the future of Europe, they will get in the way. They can also interfere with all kinds of other matters. If you're gonna blackmail them with money, they're gonna have more trouble. So you are driving Europe apart by playing hardliner from a sense of moral superiority in this area in Europe, which is actually feeling like a second-class Member State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u97	In my previous answer, I was just trying to make the point that you should be careful not to play the hardliner in everything and say: the development we have been through is superior and the development that Eastern Europe has been going through since 1989 must speed up what we have been through for so much longer, judging ourselves superiorly. Because I agree with Eppink. But this goes on. This affects a number of much more fundamental issues about how to keep a united European Union together, knowing that it is also a value community. There's my fundamental objection. The second is that there is quite a difference in Eastern Europe. Ben Knapen pointed that out to us on Friday at the Council of Ministers. That's an interesting observation; I think he's right. In cities such as Warsaw and Budapest, as well as in other places in Eastern Europe, you can see that the bourgeois opposition is now gaining ground. It is not the case that the dominant political movement that now forms the governments is by definition also the dominant movement that determines politically what happens in those countries over the next 30 years. There's a lot more going on. It yeasts in that society, also in a very positive sense. There's a lot of debate going on. You saw the demonstrations in Poland last weekend. I predict that will increase in strength. You will also see a rich civil society, a rich bourgeois life and a rich middle class who is stirring in these discussions. That also gives me the hope that this clash of ideas will ultimately lead to a solution to this issue. That is an additional reason to ensure that you do not push Poland out of the European Union. I agree with those who warn against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u98	Finally, Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u99	I do not see Poland leaving the European Union because Poland has benefited greatly from the European Union and has been a net recipient for many years. As in many countries, there is, of course, a big difference between urban and rural areas, including in central European countries. However, I note that the governments of Poland and Hungary are legally elected. I was in Budapest this summer and saw rainbow flags everywhere. The mayor's a green one. So you're seeing a whole development in that city. But that does not mean that the majority of the population is involved, because the majority of the population does not live in such a city. That is exactly the case in Poland. The whole east of Poland is very conservative. If you come there and say that you know how to do it, you are going to miss the point and you are only making things worse. This will deepen the gap in Europe. We already have a North-South gorge. We now have an East West Gorge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u100	So I agree that you shouldn't. However, at a certain point in time, you must identify where a border is being crossed, where it goes so far that it is fundamental to the rule of law in the European Union and to a number of underlying common values that cannot be negotiated. I believe that this is the issue here. When I became Prime Minister, Donald Tusk of Civic Platform was Prime Minister of Poland. I believe Civic Platform is formally part of the EPP. He's one of the most liberal politicians I've ever met in my political career. He is a very impressive man, with a very impressive past in the fight against communism, when he was part of the intellectual branch of Solidarnoński. Poland therefore has a richly-grazed society, with a richly-grazed opposition. We don't know what's going on there for years to come. It is important that we do not try to raise our finger with each other, but to mention it when certain limits are exceeded. I think that's where the nuance is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u101	I should now like to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u102	In itself, a fascinating plea from the colleagues of JA21 to allow Dutch taxpayers' money to go to Poland to subsidise this kind of thing. I didn't really expect this. I welcome the Prime Minister's answers. He actually said that the 36 billion in recovery funds should not be there because it cannot go on like this. He also said that the flash pole works, that there have been discussions about this before, that at some point, hopefully, fines can be handed out and that there will be a recovery. Following on from Mr Kamminga, I would like to ask whether the payments cannot be suspended until the speed limit has been worked out and whether there can actually be fines. So I would like to reverse the argument a little bit: don't flash and only then fines afterwards, but when we flash, we stop for just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u103	That's not the December deal. If we hadn't made that deal, there wouldn't have been a recovery fund. No, I don't think that room is there. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u104	I understand that's what the Prime Minister wants. In my view, the Chamber wants that too by a large majority. But I think the situation has changed a bit, with the ruling in Poland and the way they look at the Court. An agreement has been made to await the court's ruling. Now Poland is actually saying: whatever it says, we are not going to listen to it. In other words, Mr Rutte has made an agreement and he wants to keep his word. I can see that. It's adorable to him. But the other party he made that deal with has already said: I am not going to keep that deal. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether that does not create the room to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u105	Even if we felt that with a number of countries, that still requires unanimity, and you're not going to get it. That's how you break the deal. The European Council decides unanimously, so there is a chance that the Poles will not vote for it and I am afraid that some other countries will not. I therefore believe that this is not a practical way forward and that you will then come to the point of preventing the Commission from approving it; and it is not a guarantee that they will not do so, because they are going over it. I think the odds are low, and I think they feel very strongly that they shouldn't, but the most important thing is that, when this happens, you don't give Poland this big gift. I really hope we can do that, but there are no guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u106	Thank you. Then we go to the subject of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u107	A few things about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u108	I still have a question at the block of Poland. The Polish court says that Polish law is above European law. We have dealt with social security and migrant workers, or our business in Poland, just as we have dealt with cases. When does the Prime Minister say that this is going to happen? Soon Polish law and European law will be confused. How does the Prime Minister see that? What instruments do we have to adapt to this? It's gonna be a bit of a mess if this goes on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u109	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u110	There's a risk. As I just said, we really need to study that statement very precisely. The best route to answer that question is Kamminga, Mulder and Piri's parliamentary questions on this matter. 'Cause if I don't, I'm gonna skate a little bit now, and I'm not very good at that. Energy. There's a few things going on there. One of the suggestions is to create a gas reserve at European level. Let me say straight away that the cabinet is not in favour of this. Member States are, of course, free to do so at national level. Why aren't we in favour of it? It's gonna be years before you have it, five years. Therefore, it will not contribute to the current high gas prices. Moreover, it would have a very limited impact on the current situation, because this current situation is not caused by the high gas price in the Netherlands or in Europe but by world market prices. It does not therefore reduce the dependence of external gas suppliers. The gas still needs to be partly imported. So I think it is important to wait for the Commission's toolbox and see what opportunities there are for doing common things or doing coordinated national things. So that toolbox comes October 13th. Nor are we in favour of joint procurement at European level. Here too, gas prices are no higher than in the rest of the world. You're also at additional risk. If you want to offer less as European countries, why would gas go from outside Europe to Europe? Then, of course, LNG goes to Asia. Building such a purchasing organisation also takes a lot of time. So I guess the options aren't that rich. If I may answer the other questions about energy immediately, President...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u111	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u112	In 2014 was the last major crisis. Others have said that in 2018 there was one more; I will leave that for the debate between Members of Parliament. Reference has been made to the European Energy Union. I think it's important that it was established. It is also the case that this has strengthened the link between the market and that there have been agreements on solidarity between them. There is now much more cooperation between Member States and information on the market situation. And again, the current price peak is global and not just European. Then there is the question of Norway. Norway, too, has finally said that we can only deliver so much. There is a ceiling on Norway's ability to contribute to the European gas market. It's got production limits on it. So that's not unlimited. The Netherlands has no role in the approval procedure with regard to Nord Stream 2. It is now ahead of the German Bundesnetzagtur. In doing so, we have understood that Nord Stream 2 must demonstrate that they meet the requirements of the amended gas directive. It now seems that the German judge is going to hold on to the idea that Nord Stream 2 will have no exception to the demands. And that means that they must successfully go through the procedure in Germany in order to be able to use the pipeline. Then about Russia. The International Energy Agency has said that Gazprom complies with its supply contracts. The company could supply more gas on the basis of previous supply volumes, but it is not the case that Gazprom does not currently meet the gas contracts. I also think that we should be careful to focus the issue of high prices on one cause, namely Putin, Norway, whether it is not sufficiently coordinated in Europe. I think this is, by definition, multifaceted. Of course, it would be fantastic if Norway could deliver some extra. And of course it will also help if Russia can deliver more. But I do not believe that we now have a very strong case to blame Putin very much. On some other points, yes, but I do not think that would always be right at the moment. So gas prices in Europe are not substantially higher than elsewhere in the world, I would just like to say to Mrs Ploumen, who made a number of justified comments on this. Again, in the end, we also come to the conclusion that the joint purchasing organisation in Europe could be a distortion of the gas market, especially if you pay less than world gas market prices. This is different from, for example, vaccines, where you really benefit from doing it in common. The Netherlands has therefore not called for European action in line with the statement of France, Spain, the Czech Republic, Romania and Greece. A question has also been asked about Groningen. I think it is clear that we will not be put under pressure by the European Union. The Netherlands itself is about its own energy sources, and we have made very strict agreements about Groningen gas. Only if there really is a security of supply risk in the Netherlands will there be room for low additional production. But that is not the issue here, so that is not a passable road here. And neither should I, nor should I be pure in relation to the inhabitants of Groningen. Then we come to the question of European instruments. Again, we're gonna get that toolbox soon. I think that there should be a good discussion about it, also next week, or that there should be the instruments in it to deal with a number of things together as well as in the Netherlands, and to see how we can do that. But it will have to be mostly national action. The cabinet is also working to see how in the Netherlands we can dampen the high rising prices somewhat. How do you do that, and to what extent, and how much money is needed for that? That is the whole discussion we are having in the cabinet right now. The Chamber has said that we want to have a statement from you on this matter before 1 November at the latest. I thought there was even a motion from Nijboer about that in the General Financial Reviews. At least it has been discussed at the General Financial Reviews and we really want to be out before 1 November, preferably earlier. Anyway, if I have to, no later than November 1st. In doing so, we are also clarifying how we are trying to solve part of the problem of rising prices at national level, but that goes beyond the order of this debate. Mr. Chairman. This is in response to the various questions on energy security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u113	Thank you. Firstly, there is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee, then by Mr Amhaouch and, in my view, by Mrs Ploumen. First of all, Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u114	The Prime Minister's rhetorical ability is strong. He suggests that, as a Chamber, we say that the reason for the high gas prices would now lie mainly with Putin. I don't think anyone said that. I certainly don't, because the primary cause is simply the unexpected rapid recovery after corona. This is a global recovery and it leads to a demand surge. For another reason, production is not at the same level as for corona and that leads to those rising prices. Putin also uses these conditions for geopolitical reasons towards Nord Stream. Having said that, my question is as follows. Above all, I hear the Prime Minister say what he does not want from the EU toolbox. I do not hear anything about what concrete step the Netherlands is going to take. Then I would particularly like to hear about concluding a long-term contract with Norway in order to ensure that we are better protected from price fluctuations, as we are as a private customer with our energy company if we use our energy for a longer period of time at a certain price. Will the Netherlands do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u115	I had indeed heard Van der Lee's suggestion in the first term, but I really found that far out of the order of the European Council next week. This concerns Dutch energy policy and the advantages and disadvantages of long-term contracts with suppliers, for example Norway. I understand that question, but I really think I'm going to pass it on to the colleagues in the cabinet who are going to talk about it. I haven't been able to prepare for that right now. Of course, there are lots of hooks and eyes on it. In any case, it is outside the scope of next week's debate on the European Council. But I understand the question and I will ensure that my colleagues face it and discuss it with the Chamber in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u116	Too bad. Then let me try it differently. Working on a toolbox. The examples mentioned by the Prime Minister do not want the Netherlands. What example has the Netherlands been calling for it to enter the toolbox that will appear tomorrow, a measure that can work at European level and protects European citizens from excessive price fluctuations and price peaks as we see them today? Can the Prime Minister give us one example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u117	We have to wait and see what's in that toolbox. I think that it will focus on: what scope is there in Member States, for example, to take action in the context of VAT, taxes and energy pricing, because of the seriousness of a situation? Europe sometimes clamps on to that; not everything can always happen. I suspect and hope that there is room in it, so that you have more national space to take action than you would want to take anyway. But I do not think that the solution lies here in suggestions such as those made here, such as European gas reserves or European joint procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u118	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u119	I do find that disappointing, because the powers which the Prime Minister now refers to are national powers. We are going to decide whether we are going to change our energy tax to compensate citizens. But I simply do not hear any concrete proposal from the Netherlands to ensure at European level that we can regulate this better in relation to the future. I wonder why it is that when it comes to government intervention, the Netherlands never takes an initiative to shape a steering role of the government where the market is simply unable to deliver. That's what we're seeing in the gas markets right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u120	In my opinion, Mr Van der Lee is failing the cabinet because, for example, in the joint procurement of protective equipment at corona, the joint procurement of lung machines in hospitals, the joint procurement of vaccines and all that sort of thing, the Netherlands was the first to take joint action in Europe, sometimes from Europe, sometimes intergovernmental between countries. Since the Klaas Dijkhoff renovation of the VVD you will not even find anyone in the outskirts of the VVD who says that the market is always right. However, I believe that there are compelling arguments on this point why you should be careful to do a joint gas reserve or joint procurement. However, hopefully there are things in the toolbox that can help Europe or at least broaden national powers to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u121	I heard the Prime Minister speak about the European Energy Union. I'm not getting very clear what that means. It was set up in response to the crisis in 2014, when the gas tap closed. Once again, what can the European Energy Union do? I am sure we must resolve it nationally in the short term. I think the Cabinet is working on that, too. But for the medium term...One of the five pillars is security of supply. What can we expect from the European Energy Union? In 2019 was the last report. I do not get a warm feeling about that, but I think it is crucial to do something about it in the medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u122	I totally agree with that. One of the things that I believe the Energy Union should focus on, and whatever it is doing, is looking at how to ensure diversification of energy sources. This is also necessary in the context of developing more sustainable energy options. This is also part of the "Fit for 55" project. This is one of those examples where you can see that the Energy Union has real added value. Then we will also have to have a few sensitive discussions. Is nuclear energy sustainable or not? Is that better than some other options? Can you do the whole energy production in Europe if you didn't have nuclear power but didn't have fossil fuels? Can you make it all the way from osmosis, geothermal, wind, sun and tidal energy? That is, of course, what we are dealing with. But the Energy Union has great added value in this debate on the diversification of our energy sources, precisely because of the sustainability issues that lie ahead and because of Fit for 55. It is planned that this debate will take place in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u123	If the high prices continue for a few months, two to three, then we will all be able to look at them nationally, but what does the Prime Minister think of the options if this is going to take at least a full year or perhaps a little longer? That's a scenario that can be very plausible. Does the Energy Union have a role to play there? Or does the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, say that, regardless of what is happening in Europe, we will always have to solve it ourselves as a national government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u124	No, there will certainly be a role for the Energy Union, but in the end the question is: what instruments does the Energy Union have in order to intervene? Where are the targets? Once again, you will soon see this in debates in Italy, Spain and France, building European reserves and so on. If all of that takes a lot longer, maybe those are buttons you'll have to look at. Just, I don't think it's gonna help for the short term. But I do think that within the framework of the Energy Union, you will have that kind of discussion at the top of the agenda if it is all going to take much longer than we now hope and accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u125	I do not have so much a question, but do an observation; in some circles one would call it 360 degrees feedback, I think. I heard the outgoing Prime Minister say: it is not that there is only one cause of the rising gas price and the high prices, and that is the cause of Putin. But no one has claimed that either. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u126	No, I didn't say that either. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u127	That has already moved a bit along with the feedback. So no one has claimed that. My question was much more about the following. In the context of geopolitics, the need for an energy transition, inequality, including in the Netherlands, and the cabinet's refusal to anticipate possible deficits, it would be wise to think about how we can strengthen our independence. The fact is that it has only increased. I would like to invite the outgoing Prime Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u128	Firstly, I agree that no one here has said that it was Putin. It's what you hear in the social discussion, so that's what I meant more. Putin was mentioned a few times, but not necessarily as the sole cause of this issue. Of course, they may think in Russia: this is convenient. But we don't have any hard leads, and they're sticking to those contracts so far. But that is not what has been said here to such an extent. It is also true that these fundamental issues raise about our own energy independence. But it's not that easy. What you see in the world over the next decades is that the need for fossil is only increasing, really much further. In Europe, we have the ambition to speed it up, but the big issue will of course be towards 2030 and beyond: if you are going to build a good hydrogen economy as a backbone for, for example, the big polluting industries in the Netherlands, how do you ensure that electricity production is possible if that is not from fossil? Can all this come from wind, water, tides, osmosis and geothermal heat? Or look at the French decisions today. They have said: we are going to do so, but then there is nuclear energy in the mix. In the cabinet that I am now in charge of, of course, there are different views. There are differences of opinion in the Chamber. That kind of fairly principled discussion, which I think goes much further than a cabinet period, will have to be conducted together in the coming years, precisely for the very reason Mrs Ploumen calls it. Of course, you want to be much less dependent on international price fluctuations and more on your own as a country in this respect. Plus you want to avoid it narratively: it's because of the climate change response. Of course, it's nonsense that it's because of that. The fact is that the importance of gas as a transition fuel will increase in the coming period and will not decrease. That is a fact, but one cannot say that it comes from tackling climate change that we now suddenly have this misery, as some on the right claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u129	Of course, I very much agree with the latter. I also agree that it is a longer-term issue. All those long-term plans that are being made in Europe and should have been made in the Netherlands is certainly relevant. But my question was actually more about the medium term; let me put it this way. At the time when it was decided, rightly and too late, that the risk of gas extraction for the Groningen was immensely high and that the extraction of gas had stopped, it would have been a good thing. I would like to join Mr Van der Lee in thinking about: how can we ensure that the market works to our advantage rather than to our disadvantage? 'Cause if we let those unbridled ones go, we'll figure out where we came from. As far as I know, the Chamber has asked for this more often in recent years, but the cabinet that is a little bit out of control is doing so again by the outgoing Prime Minister as an option that does not contribute to a solution. That is where we differ. I think I am on Mr Van der Lee's side, where I feel very at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u130	Yeah, but sometimes asking the question is easier than answering it. Mrs Ploumen is the first to stand in the front, and I often agree with her, to say: but not coal, not oil and ultimately not natural gas. Maybe she'll say it has to be for the transition, but eventually we also want to get rid of the gas. So what are we gonna do, and we're gonna make it? My prediction is that it will be a very big problem, if you think you can solve the enormous energy needs that the Netherlands has with renewables. That really calls for a few more fundamental discussions and we will have to have them with each other. The honest answer is it's not an easy answer. We also saw this in the previous cabinet, when we did not know exactly what was going on with Groningen for too long. We had studies done and finally, a few years ago, with broad support, we were lucky to be able to reduce gas extraction very quickly. But with that we have not reduced gas use in the Netherlands. That's absolutely true. So we now have to import much more or actually import everything, because the Dutch fields are still very few. I'll get to migration. That is always a somewhat sad subject in Europe, because it is going very slowly. I assume that we know that we are trying to reach comprehensive agreements in the Union and that this is extremely complex. Some first steps have been taken. For example, at EU level, thanks to the Netherlands, there is a joint instrument, Article 25a of the Visa Code. During the JHA Council last week, the first visa measures were adopted against Gambia for insufficient cooperation on return. A modest first step, but it shows that such an instrument can be used, I say to Mrs Kamminga. We will continue to do so, also against other countries that are more important to the Netherlands than the Gambia. In the end, it's about improved cooperation, but you have to look at it in its entirety. Can you send people back to countries where they come from when they're not supposed to be here? Can you take part of those who do come for asylum in the region and then bring them to Europe, as we did with Turkey in the Syrian refugee crisis in 2016? How do you ensure that Europe's external borders are properly guarded? How do you ensure that asylum pressures in Europe are distributed a little more fairly among Member States? All these issues lie ahead, and they have been for years. It was also discussed, I understand, with the JenV Secretary of State during the debate on the JHA Council on 6 October. Once again, the positions are far apart. Maybe a few specific questions that have been asked about migration. The pushbacks, Poland, Belarus: I share all the concerns about that coverage. Member States are primarily responsible for the implementation of border control, but this must always be in line with European and international law. As members of the cabinet, we repeat this on several occasions in European meetings and also in bilateral contacts. It was also discussed by the Secretary of State for Justice at the JHA Council on 8 October with her colleagues. Specifically towards Poland, in line with the Van Dijk/Podt motion, it stressed the importance of transparency and called for humanitarian organisations to have access to Polish territory. That is also the question raised by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Dassen on this point. Mrs van der Plas had a very specific point of view, namely food security. She brought that into the discussion. That is, of course, a relevant theme. If you look at the full breadth of the causes of migration - poverty, conflict, terror, climate change, population growth and irregular migration - these are all closely related problems. You can see in the vicinity of Europe that more and more countries are affected: in West Africa, the G5 Sahel, that is Mauritania, Chad, Burkina-Faso, Mali and Niger, in the Horn of Africa, the Middle East, North Africa. Of course, also because of the effects of climate change, because in the end they can also, also by Mrs van der Plas, put further pressure on water and food supplies. That is why it is part of the Dutch commitment of recent years to focus more precisely on these focus regions in the areas of food, agriculture, water and health. It also allows you to take away some of those root causes. Then specifically about Afghanistan. That was a question from Mr Kuzu on this point. No, excuse me, that was still the issue of the situation at the external borders of Europe and the reports on it. Of course, this is the Commission's first move. With regard to the application and respect of the EU acquis, which was also decided in a question from Mr Kuzu, the qualified majority is the norm. That's what the treaty says. That was also the case in 2015. We then saw the importance of acceptance when we tried to enforce it with the QMV in the J Council, in the JHA Council. However, once again, reception in the region, which I have already mentioned, remains part of the Dutch integrated migration approach. What about the migration pact? I may have said a few things about that. It was also partly discussed in the debate on the JHA Council on 6 October. Fortunately, there is still a large group of Member States using the package approach. This also prevents the completion of a number of individual proposals. What we are trying to do at the moment is to see if you can choose a slightly differentiated approach within the frameworks that have been set and the various BNC sheets, which have also been shared with the Chamber on these proposals. This is in response to the different questions about migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u131	Thank you. Firstly, Mr Jasper van Dijk, then Mrs Ploumen and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u132	If you look at what is currently happening along the borders of Europe, then it is really below all levels. It really goes directly against all kinds of European values and human rights. I note, however, that we are all paying a great deal of attention to the violation of the Polish courts, which is also right and understandable, but is that what happens to happen again to Poland at the border with Belarus, not just as reprehensible, I ask the Prime Minister if they literally ban aid in the border area between Poland and Belarus, which has already resulted in the death of six people, including children. Does he agree with me that that's just as reprehensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u133	I can't compare that. I just hate what's going on in there. I think that's horrible. That is also why Ankie Broekers finally picked that up with her Polish colleague. She said, "We are asking for transparency. We ask that you do your work at that border within European values and international law." Guarding the outside line is good. That must be done, but of course it must be done in a way that is in line with our values and our views. There's no discussion about that. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u134	I agree with the Prime Minister. Can I then ask the Prime Minister that if it turns out that this situation has not yet been resolved, I have no sign that it is going to be better there, he will also raise that point at the euro summit with his Polish colleague, so that it will stop people sitting there in no-man's-land, being locked up and having no access to help at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u135	Let me put it very precisely. The Commission has said that we are now investigating this. Ankie Broekers-Knol raised it with her Polish colleague. As soon as it became clear that this would continue. I am sure that the Commission will come up with some findings. I do not know if we will have those insights next week, but as soon as it is discussed, I will certainly not be reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u136	There is no doubt about the pushbacks anymore. That happens and it's illegal. At the end of June, a motion was adopted by my colleague Kati Piri, who asked the Prime Minister to condemn the pushbacks at the forthcoming European summit and to point out to the Heads of Government, whether bilaterally or not, that these pushbacks should stop acutely. The report from that summit shows that the Prime Minister had not seen any room for discussion at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u137	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u138	It's an approved motion, and those pushbacks are illegal. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a simple question, which can be answered with a simple answer: is he going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u139	I just answered Van Dijk how I see it. The Commission is now investigating, Broekers-Knol has spoken to its colleagues, and I have also at this European Council to roast the fish on Poland in the matter we had before this debate. If I go cycling through the Commission's investigation by telling Mateusz Morawicki that the House of Representatives and I are finding out what is going on there, he will say: the Commission was working on it. I have just heard in plenary about the concerns you have with so many other countries, so I do not know if that is wise. Maybe that's why I can take it a little more practical: if I see an opportunity to make a meaningful intervention there, I will. But I am not going to say, quite apart from the context of such a meeting, that I am going to do so. That's kind of the problem with such a motion. Then you come up with a shopping list, while it's a question of whether it's useful to do it at the time and whether it's worth anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u140	Pushbacks are illegal and they never come out handy, of course. In June, this motion received a ruling from the Chamber from the idea that I would move to the outgoing Prime Minister that pushbacks are illegal, that they should be dealt with and that the Prime Minister saw space. Now we are a few months away and he says: no, the Commission is investigating. Of course, that is also a bit of a delay technique. The evidence is undisputed. As a Chamber, we have stated that we believe that these practices should be stopped immediately. I understand all the arguments. The Prime Minister knows I've been on that Council before. Sometimes it doesn't come true, but again, this is such a persistent problem. Human rights are being violated in the European Union, at the borders of the Union. We can't let that pass. So I would really like to call on him to do everything in his power to create opportunities to raise the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u141	But that doesn't change anything, does it? I can bring it up, but that doesn't solve the problem, does it? If I do, I'm gonna ride my bike right through business, right? I'd be happy to do it. I want to promise Mrs Ploumen that I will do so next week, but nothing will change. Then I'm going to Mateusz and then I'm really not going to use the Chamber as an argument, because I think very much about what's going on myself, and then I say, "What you're doing right now at the border with Belarus and what's happening there'. Then I know exactly how he reacts. Then he starts by saying that it is only partly or completely true, and secondly: the Commission is doing research; what are you interfering with? Next, I have to address him at that meeting on the issue we have just discussed in detail, namely how Poland relates to the European legal system. My point with those kinds of motions, however sympathetic and rightly so, is that it must also be effective. Sometimes you can find such a method, but if you have multiple attacks to make in such a Council on a particular issue, on a particular country, then you also have to look at how it works out so that it is effective and they don't think: oh, there it is again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u142	Yes. Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u143	That is the practical point. So I would like to make a commitment, but it will not be very helpful, I fear, because he will really answer: the Commission has now started an investigation; what are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u144	That's right. That's right. I'd be happy to move into the Prime Minister's office during that Council. At the same time, this kind of practice is continuing because the other side, in this case, is slowly calling it the Dark Side, which is building up so many violations of human rights and of the rule of law, that it makes it less appealable. Again, an investigation is fine, but we all know it happens. Hence the request to the Prime Minister once again: see if any bonds can be closed with the Luxembourg colleague or the Germans to see if you can set it up in a way that is as effective as possible, but does deliver the message.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u145	Yes. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u146	I heard the outgoing Prime Minister respond to my comments on food scarcity/food security. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask whether the outgoing Prime Minister agrees with me that we really must do everything we can to keep that knowledge here in the Netherlands. Does he agree with me that you only keep that knowledge here if you keep the people here? I often raise it here: it is a genuine concern of mine that we think too easily that we have it and that it will always be. That's what you see in more things: if it falls rapidly and the next generation is not going to take over the companies and do something else, that knowledge will disappear very quickly. I want us to be able to continue to use this knowledge in those countries where there is food shortages, so that we may be able to stop immigration flows, at least try to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u147	The knowledge in the Netherlands, from Wageningen, via HBO Groen and VMBO Groen, is a unique vertical knowledge column, which is national and international leading. So I agree. It would be a shame if we lost that knowledge if we didn't pay enough attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u148	These knowledge institutions are here because we have a strong agricultural sector here and enough farmers and successors, young people, who also want to receive training. It's like with dominoes: when you touch one, everything falls over. This is also going to happen in the agricultural sector. If knowledge institutions don't have enough students or knowledge flows out of here, they just go to another country. Then we don't have that here anymore. That's what I'm worried about. Hence my question to the outgoing Prime Minister to say that permanently in Europe, especially with all the plans there are. 95% of our agriculture and horticulture is commonplace. We produce very efficient high-quality food in a very sustainable way, with a low ecological footprint. It would be so nice if you could take that to other countries instead of taking it away from here, and other countries would have to find out. It is therefore even less sustainable and less efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u149	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u150	Then you're gonna put the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u151	Agreed. I thought Mrs van der Plas took the turn somewhere towards the broader debate on nitrogen and climate, but perhaps I misunderstood that. In this context, we will have to discuss with all sectors in the Netherlands how to reduce the pressure on nitrogen, climate and so on. This too will have to come partly from innovation, for which you need these knowledge institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u152	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u153	I'm glad the outgoing Prime Minister says so. I still have the greatest concerns about the innovations, as a result of a recent debate with Mr Jetten. He said that we shouldn't really want those innovations anymore, but that we should move towards reduction. If you want to achieve a goal, any goal, that's the goal. In this case, you have to reduce. How you do that, it doesn't necessarily have to be reduced. I'd rather see that happen through innovations. You can see in our entire society that our country is very good at innovation. I am glad to hear that there is a continuing strong commitment to innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u154	Yeah, absolutely. That is also in the whole approach of the cabinet. Our agricultural sector is a global leader, precisely because of its innovations. At the same time, in a small country like the Netherlands, you need to see how you can ensure that there is also room for road construction, building houses, where the nitrogen space and the CO debate are concerned. But I think we will then be very far removed from the subject of this debate. I always say: in the Netherlands we think of Alexander Pechtold in Wageningen, but in the rest of the world they think of the best agricultural university in the world, the WUR.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u155	Thank you. That's a nice little bridge to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u156	Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? Then there is the Conference on the Future of Europe. I'm not gonna read what's going on here again. You know the main elements: the view of Europe, the civil dialogue and the SCP note. It looks at how we can ensure that everyone can give their opinion. The Netherlands is really at the forefront of these dialogues in Europe. The Chamber received the first results last Friday. They are the result of these consultations and have not been prepared by the government. At the end of the day, we need a representative picture of this. We will offer this and pass it on to the plenary. It was now about the question: what do we want? In the current second phase, in October and November, we are talking about why. With this we want to gain more insight into the ambiguity. This is also the subject of discussion by the Social and Cultural Planning Office. The debate in the Netherlands on the conference should be open, inclusive, transparent and structured. It is also an opportunity to actively set the Dutch targets in the European Union and to defend the interests, for example in the area of transparency. Mr Dassen and others asked about the European branch of this discussion. The end of the conference is foreseen in the spring of 2022, during the French Presidency. Then there will be a final report. The three institutions will then discuss as a matter of urgency how this can be followed up effectively. We attach great importance to ensuring that the results remain realistic, practical and deliver tangible results. In doing so, they must meet the high expectations. Mr Van Dijk said: should there not be a new treaty? No, sorry, we've talked about that exit article before. I've got that in the wrong pile here. Mr Van Dijk says he also wants a new treaty. We've already finished the exit article. With regard to a new treaty, the Netherlands does not always stand for it. We are not alone in this, because a treaty debate is going to unravel a great deal. But you don't know. You can never put it off completely or say it's never gonna get there. Let us first see what comes out of that conference and then see what that means, including for the treaty. Finally, Mrs Maeijer's question on costs. There is no EU budget reserved for the conference. The institutions and Member States themselves bear part of the costs and pay them out of their own existing budget. For example, the European Parliament covers the costs of plenary sessions. Member States themselves shall cover travel and subsistence costs and the Council shall contribute, inter alia, to translations. The Netherlands is in favour of a slender design of the conference: Calvinist and cost-effective. That is why it is also financed by the current State aid budget. We are plotting these costs within the State's budget at about half a million Euria. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Union externally. Quite a number of comments have been made. The most important thing is that I would like to repeat what has been said in other places, namely the en-en-approach. If you look at the world post Afghanistan, we must ensure that we have a strong Europe when it comes to our cooperation and how Europe can act as a player on the international stage. But 'and' also stands for NATO, the transatlantic link and the direct relationship with the United States, without which we believe there is no major conflict in the world to be resolved. This en-en-approach represents a proud Europe, NATO and transatlantic relationship. That, of course, remains the cornerstones of our foreign policy. That has only become more important in Afghanistan. In this context, AUKUS, the security pact between the US, Australia and the United Kingdom, has also been called for. I fully understand that partners need to form strategic partnerships. The security context in the Indo-Pacific is also changing rapidly, as is known. The Netherlands is also involved, of course also from history. We are part of the big flotilla that sails there. We consider stability and security to be important in that region. There are also important trade flows. As far as we are concerned, particular emphasis should be placed on the shared importance of tackling the strategic issues in the Indo-Pacific, because you can only solve them through cooperation. I think that the timing of the announcement, one day after the announcement of the European Indo-Pacific strategy, was a little unfortunate. We would also have liked to have seen more consultation. I also think it would have been possible for the presentation to have been made in a way that would have led to less irritation for people and countries not participating in the Pact. I understand that, too, especially from France. I understand very well that the eyebrows are frowning there and even more than that. That's not just about losing a contract, it's about how you deal with each other. Then there is the question about Borrell, who was talking about an EU force of 5,000 men. You know the cabinet move. We believe that it is important to take greater responsibility for our own security as a Europe too. We are doing this by stepping up European defence cooperation by focusing more on interoperability, standardisation and specialisation. Borrell's gonna come up with a strategic compass. That is what we are discussing at the December European Council. The Chamber will also receive an appreciation of this before then. By his idea of an intervention force, he does not mean a European army. Of course, the deployment of the armed forces remains a national competence without the transfer of sovereignty. European defence expenditure focuses on training missions, the European Peace Facility including support for third countries, the European Defence Fund to stimulate the European defence industry and the joint development of defence capacity in the framework of PESCO projects. Azerbaijan's human rights track record is indeed worrying. This is also an important issue in the relationship between the European Union and Azerbaijan, and also in the relationship between the Netherlands and Azerbaijan. On the contrary, the partnership agreement under negotiation offers additional tools to stay in dialogue and to discuss those critical messages. We're not leaving either. Neither does the Netherlands, bilaterally, nor does I in my contacts with the President. It also includes key priorities such as the rule of law, human rights, good governance, human-to-human contacts and the climate. These talks are also taking place between the European Union and Azerbaijan. This means that suspension would only be possible if agreement was reached at EU level. That is not something that the Netherlands can force only if we want to do so now. We would like to release the veto on foreign policy for very specific sanctions and human rights declarations. You can see that more Member States, including Germany, have expressed this positively. At the same time, it calls for a unanimous decision not to be unanimous anymore. That is the problem, because there is not enough support for this at the moment. We'll continue to see if we can increase that support. At the same time, I do not expect any major steps in the short term. So this is specifically about the QMV within the common foreign and security policy, i.e. sanctions and human rights declarations in that corner. Finally, the CDA asked a question about the security of supply of raw materials. This is also important in the context of European foreign policy. In this context, last year the Commission's Critical Raw Materials Action Plan was launched. It states how the European Union is going to increase its strategic autonomy in the case of critical raw materials, which are therefore the most economically important ones whose supply may be compromised. There are currently 30 such raw materials identified. The BNC sheet on this communication states that the cabinet, the Dutch government, fully supports the approach of the European Union. A few more questions about corona, among other things about the vaccine donations. The intention of the Netherlands is to donate 27 million vaccines this year, of which 21 million to COVAX. In addition, we are dependent on deliveries. So it may be that if it is left behind, it also has consequences for the speed with which you can deliver them. On patents, in line with the Piri motion, the cabinet will continue to press for proactive and constructive text negotiations, including the waver proposal aimed at corona vaccines. At the next meeting of the TRIPS Council, which will take place on 13 and 14 October, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, both the European Union's proposal and India's and South Africa's proposal will be discussed again. While this debate is ongoing, including within the WTO, the international community must, of course, continue its efforts to further scale up vaccine production, to remove bottlenecks, to encourage cooperation and to distribute available doses fairly. Mr. Chairman. Then also in the area of health care: has the HERA already been established? This is a proposal, a Commission decision, setting up HERA as the internal Commission service. It is therefore an internal service of the Commission. It is also the Commission's competence to do so within the Treaty. That has also entered into force. The Regulation laying down the instruments for the HERA in a crisis situation is still being negotiated by the Council. Is it true that the Commission intends to allocate EUR 50 billion for health preparedness and resilience? It is true, in itself, that the Commission has reserved funding for the preparedness and response authority, the HERA, in the Multiannual Financial Framework. It's 1 billion a year. This brings together 6 billion over the entire period of the MFF. In addition, other EU programmes, private funding or the European Investment Bank may contribute. It is hoped that this leverage will lead to another 24 billion, and thus to a total of 30 billion. The amount mentioned by the President of the Commission in the press conference is indeed 50 billion. We can't explain that either. That is why the President of the Commission has been asked to explain how she got the 50 billion. But we know from 6 billion, leveraging to 30 billion through EIB and private investment. Finally, as regards health and also free movement. Mr Kuzu pointed out that the agreements on intra-European travel should be adapted due to the increased vaccination rate and the global epidemiological situation. I agree. We are also working on new agreements in the European Union. My expectation is that next week the European Council will also encourage that process to be speeded up and to restore freedom of movement as much as possible. The Cabinet supports that. It is not yet possible to release all travel measures, because of the situation with corona. The DCC is, after all, the most important tool for travel within Europe. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about health care. Then I have a few more questions I couldn't put in a chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u157	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA, and then to Mr Amhaouch, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u158	I would like to go back to what the outgoing Prime Minister said about the availability of vaccines for developing countries. In addition, not only the donations of vaccines are very important. They're getting started now, but that took a lot of time for all kinds of reasons. Perhaps even more important is the need to release patents. A number of motions have already been tabled. The perception of those involved is that the Netherlands does not take the lead and has taken the lead. I would like to ask the Prime Minister not only to take part in the Commission's efforts, but also to actively promote that these patents are at least temporarily removed from the vaccines. It seems to me that a lot of public money has gone into the development of these vaccines. Support has been given to the pharmaceutical industry for a good reason, but the least that can be done is to ensure that these vaccines are made available to developing countries. For example, a manufacturer like Moderna floats. So I'd love to add a leg, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u159	I'm not involved in that myself. I'll make sure the room gets an update. I know that the Piri motion is not asking for the full release of the patents, but for a limited waver. That is also wise, because here too the truth is back in the middle, I think. Of course, you also have to avoid that in the end there is no incentive to develop new medicines. It might be... hopefully that does not happen.. that there will be new variants again, where you need to get updates of the vaccines again. Then you want the industry to do the same. So I think it is a sensible idea to limit that waver proposal. I believe that this is in line with the Piri motion. But it also calls for these text negotiations to be conducted proactively and constructively. I will therefore ask you to ensure that this update of how it will be done on 13 and 14 October in the TRIPS Council will also come to the Chamber. That might be the next corona letter from VWS, and otherwise a letter from someone else in the cabinet. It is not known to me that the Netherlands is thriving there. That's news to me. But, of course, I will inform myself of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u160	I'd love to. I appreciate that. Finally, I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister himself to engage actively. There is indeed that TRIPs meeting, but there are still four, no three, other possibilities. I'll give the Prime Minister those opportunities in advance. One of these possibilities is, of course, the European Council. That's why I'm bringing it up today. There is also a G20 meeting on 30 and 31 October, where the Netherlands could also address this in accordance with the agenda. At the end of November, there will also be the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference, where, of course, this also plays a major role. I would like to see the bet back at all times and it would be nice if we could hear back on that. The best news would be that this waver will indeed come with support and encouragement from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u161	In any case, I would like to make a commitment to make use of the suggestion to see whether it is appropriate to raise it at these various conferences, such as the European Council. I get that thought. I get the idea of a progress report anyway. This debate is also being followed by the entire cabinet. When the Prime Minister speaks, everyone listens. Mrs Ploumen knows that like no other. I think that her comment on the fact that the Minister responsible for this issue would be dragged to a halt has also arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u162	It is good that the Netherlands has taken the step to offer those 27 million vaccines. It is also good that steps have been taken in the discussion around the waver and the patents. However, there is another important, necessary part. Making vaccines available doesn't mean they're gonna get where they need to be. They must be transported, cooled and expensive logistics must be regulated. The Netherlands is currently only delivering a third of what is needed financially from the fair-share perspective. The EU as a whole should contribute more to this logistics. Can the Prime Minister also raise this in the Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u163	Apparently we do not, says Mr Van der Lee. That's news to me. I'm gonna check this out and come back to it in the second term. So we would, I understand, not do what we should do on logistics. I'm gonna dive in there and I'll get back to you on that. Because that shouldn't be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u164	I have a short question about HERA. It is on the agenda for the forthcoming European Summit. As I know, a motion was adopted last week, in my view, from the SP, not to take irreversible steps on this dossier. We have not yet received a BNC sheet with an appreciation of this proposal. I'm actually wondering: what will be the government's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u165	No irreversible steps are foreseen at the European Council next week. I think it's being discussed within the Council and then it goes back to the Health Council. The Chamber will therefore have every opportunity to consider this matter. I'll take a look at the officials. There's a strong yes nod. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u166	That is, of course, good, but what will be the real commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u167	Well, not to go any further than to discuss it. So it's gonna be an in-and-out session. We're not gonna make any decisions there. We, the Netherlands, see added value in terms of European cooperation in health care. We see no added value in the discussion about whether Europe is doing some sort of sovereignty grab on health care. I do think that the lesson of corona is to consult in Europe, for example when it comes to jointly tackling production problems with personal protective equipment, i.e. PPE. But consultation is also important in the whole question of border closures: how to prevent an uncoordinated situation and how to prevent border closures as we have seen them? Fortunately, we did not see these border closures between us and North Rhine-Westphalia, but we also saw the free movement in Europe moving enormously. I think that the crisis that we have had shows us in all these areas how important some form of consultation is in this area. I would be very much in favour of that, without suddenly saying that health care is a European responsibility. There is no point in that either, because Europe cannot do that at all, and Europe is not meant to do that either. But coordination can help. Then there are a few more questions that are in the "loose" section. We will submit the Dutch recovery plan in time. We're going to get that money to the Netherlands. We will have to meet a number of demands, both to get the money, for example enough reforms, and then to spend the money properly. There are all kinds of demands for this too. We are going to submit this recovery plan as soon as possible. I think this is up to the new cabinet. Let's hope that's quick; at least that's what he said in another role. Then I'll come up with artificial intelligence. Let's see, Mrs. Maeijer asked for that. The Cabinet considers it important that the regulation it is talking about should contribute to the promotion of human standards. I think that was also her point in applying AI. The use of high risk AI in law enforcement will also be covered, but there is no general prohibition. Then digital security more generally. The EU Cyber Resilience Act is coming up. That's right! Mr Amhaouch is right that digital security is a prerequisite for a successful digital transition. I agree with him. During the speech on the State of the Union, Von der Leyen also spoke about this. She did announce the Cyber Resilience Act. We believe that this is a great opportunity to come up with additional legislation, especially in terms of horizontal legislation. Then you talk about market access and ensuring that safe digital products come from the European internal market. Of course, we will inform the Court of Justice of this with an assessment as soon as it is discussed. Mr Amhaouch also asked about the non-paper. I understand that the Chamber has now arrived as an annex to the annotated agenda of this European Council. That's what I've been called in. Among other things, it states that the Netherlands is keen to see a good analysis of future European demand for semi-con products, that the internal market needs to be strengthened with a view to future leading edge technologies and that money is needed for start-ups and scale-ups for the next generation of semi-con. Then the RRF's spending. The Commission's auditors have been cut short, and that is undesirable, was a question from Mr Dassen. I agree that that money needs to be well spent. Now, of course, the audit function is primarily the responsibility of the Member States. Its proper organisation is part of the Commission's implementing decision. The Commission is then responsible for assessing whether the milestones and targets are being met, as set out in the Implementing Decision of the Recovery Plan, the country implementing decisions. There is currently no reason for us to believe that supervision of the RRF is at stake. If his concern is justified, it is of course the case that OLAF, the Court of Auditors, the Public Prosecutor and the Commission can carry out additional investigations and have the means to do so. For his part, there was also a demand for the appreciation of the revised EU Action Plan on trafficking in human beings. This was published on 29 September. The BNC sheet has yet to come up on that. That will come within six weeks. That appreciation can therefore be expected by November at the latest, but it is still up to the Chamber. Then it's flying by the President of the Commission and an EU official. That really is a matter for the Commission. It's not for me to judge. When it comes to the civil servant, it is of course subject to the rules of his employer. It is therefore up to the employer to decide. Mr Eppink asked about the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy. He referred to the study of the European Commission's independent Joint Research Centre, the JRC. It was published in early August. It will examine the potential impact of that strategy on the primary sector in 2030, as well as on the biodiversity strategy. The Minister for Agriculture, Nature Management and Food Safety, LNV, concludes that the study mainly calculates the potential decrease in the number of animals, the rising prices and yields in the animal sector and the substantial environmental gains in 2030. In this way, Mrs Schouten believes that it is useful for us too. But she also shares the view of the JRC that the study is too limited to have any real consequences. Too many aspects of the strategies are not included. The Commission is now working out the strategies in concrete proposals. The Chamber will also forward the cabinet positions to these proposals via the BNC-fiches. At least that is not on the agenda of the forthcoming European Council. I'm not gonna do that either, because I already have a whole list of things I have to bring in. So I'm not doing this, but this will automatically come back through the BNC chips. Finally, Mr Dassen's question on the EU monitor. This is a monitor of all European legislation, policies and so on, but also of reactions that are sorted out by theme in a database for government and parliament. There is, of course, no discussion in itself about the importance of providing good information. Together with the Chamber, we are also working to improve the transparency of information provision in Europe. A similar database, a so-called "one-stop shop" IT portal, is currently being developed. This is a digital portal of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council. If I try to see what they want now, that is exactly what Mr Dassen is proposing. We want that database to be established as soon as possible. Furthermore, I think it is also a matter that needs to be addressed in the debate on the provision of information with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I should now like to make a particular effort to ensure that this European portal is launched as soon as possible. Mr President, that was my attempt to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u168	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Kuzu van Denk, then Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u169	In any case, I am pleased that the Prime Minister has indicated that the 5.6 billion from the recovery and resilience fund will also come from the European Union to the Netherlands. That's what the Prime Minister said. He did say, "That's up to another cabinet." Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u170	To get to the money, you also need to show that you're reforming enough. This cabinet is transforming itself into an accident. But if you look at the country-specific recommendations, you will see that additional reforms are being suggested. Here we fall a bit into our own pocket, because last year, when the Netherlands agreed with that fund, it had the unique position that there really had to be reform, not only reforms from a few years ago, but also the recent country-specific recommendations, the country-specific recommendations, the CSRs. The situation in the Netherlands, also due to the slow formation of the cabinet after the March elections, is that we do not yet have a new cabinet and have not yet been able to initiate a number of reforms which may be agreed in a new coalition agreement and which are in line with the CSRs. You're gonna need it to get access eventually. Because the Netherlands was so high on horseback and said that there was a need for reform, it would also be a bit cocky if we did not do enough ourselves and still say that we want the money. I think this is gonna be all right. We have until April next year. I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u171	Firstly, I find the argument that we should wait until the next elections because of the political inability to form a cabinet quite scandalous. I have looked at the countries that have already submitted such a plan. In front of the queue I see Italy, Spain and Greece. Those countries have already done it all. I've also read the demands. I have read the letter from the Minister of Finance, which lists on two pages in bullet points the requirements that must all be met. The essence is that it's about recovery because of the corona crisis we've had. We know that energy prices are currently linked to the corona crisis, due to increased demand for energy, especially gas. Surely this would be an ultimate means of saving energy prices by using the funds from that fund for this purpose? Can the Prime Minister go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u172	No. It is very possible that, in order to reduce price increases, public expenditure may also have to be spent. The state treasury will allow that. We don't need the fund for that. Nevertheless, we also want that fund. So we would like to use that money, but it is not the case that it is now trying to find a solution to the sharp rise in energy prices and how to dampen them from the cabinet, is delayed by the question of how to cover it. That money is there when it is needed, because the Netherlands is just financially very good for it, but that does not mean that we want this money too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u173	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u174	It's good that there's money. There are at least a number of burdens due to corona. The argument is that there is no money, but it is true that that money can simply be prepared and used. I still find it very strange and quite scandalous that, because of the political inability and inability to form a cabinet, these plans should be postponed while the money is available. It's for picking up. France does it, Greece does it, Spain does it, all those southern European countries do it. And when it comes to claiming a fund that we are entitled to as a country, we are at the back of the line. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u175	But what do we postpone by not using that money now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u176	I know that there are wishes from the Chamber, but at least we can see that there is a huge challenge with regard to energy prices. When it comes to purchasing at European level and building gas resources at European level, the cabinet says: no, we should all do that nationally. On October 13th, so tomorrow, a toolkit will be available so we can start using all these instruments. The funding is also available. The plans will be announced tomorrow. That toolkit will be announced tomorrow. As far as I'm concerned, that comes together nicely. We can work on that from tomorrow and then we don't have to wait for a new cabinet to be formed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u177	A few things are really getting mixed up right now. One: yes, there is a problem with the energy price. That's what the cabinet is looking at, again today, and we'll continue on Friday. We have agreed with the Chamber that we will come forward with an approach sooner by 1 November and I hope. There is no doubt that this costs money, and that money is there. The extent to which we do so and the extent to which you can mitigate that price increase are now being discussed in the Cabinet to do so in a sensible way. So we don't need that jar for that. It is not that if we bring that jar to us now, we can do something faster with energy prices. That money's just there. Luckily, because we're in good shape. There's this jar, too. By the way, this little game is not meant to reduce energy prices at all. The agreements we made in the RRF are there to really use this kind of money for very precise spending in areas such as digitisation and greening. That goes beyond reducing energy prices, of course. That's not necessarily greening, sometimes not even. Then there's two things that come up. You're gonna have to get to the potty. The Netherlands itself set the bar very high: you need to reform. And the special thing is that it works, because the Greeks, the Spaniards, the Portuguese and the Italians, to their credit, have submitted far-reaching reform plans. So it works. So that whole idea that the Netherlands had, in the sense of "if everyone wants to, we don't feel much for it, but then we want this to be the last time so they can do it themselves next time," so just happen now. So let's just be a little happy. I mean, sometimes things also work out in Europe, and I think that is very positive. But yes, if you set the bar so high like the Netherlands, it is not good to go to Brussels with half a story. We'd rather do that if we've made some further arrangements in the formation. And that's really on time. So we didn't lose that money. We do not need it now to lower energy prices. So I really don't think there's a problem here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u178	Finally, Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u179	That's right. That's right. After all, I would like to dwell on our future earnability and the non-paper that has been sent. I would like to know what, in short, the Dutch are committed to the EU Chips Act. We also discussed it in an earlier debate on the European Summit. Are we gonna cut some buttons at that point? The Netherlands has a global role in the entire semiconductor industry, the semiconductor industry. That's our new future, our clean economy. Samsung in Korea puts 175 billion in three years. In the short term, will Europe, as a large economy, take a decision on this point and what is the Dutch commitment to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u180	That's a good question. It's tricky, by the way. The Netherlands and Belgium, and I think Germany too, are the countries with very strong clusters in this respect, which also partly work together. There is, of course, also a debate in Europe on open strategic autonomy. When it comes to the whole of the semi-con sector, I think you should see that if Europe is not going to save it alone. You will need to work together with the other parts of the world, especially with the major research clusters in America, and partly in South Korea and other parts of Asia. That's inevitable. So it's an international thing. But the Netherlands has gold in its hands, both in research and in business. What we are actually trying to do with this paper is: how do you get the analysis of what exactly you can do at European level, and how do you avoid being too protective as Europe? So you want to make sure that industry can continue to do its research in the world. That is very important. This also has to do with the strengthening of the internal market in this area. In the end, this must remain a leading edge technology. This is important for the Netherlands for earning power. Mr Amhaouch is quite right about that. But as we also mentioned in the paper, you also have to make sure that there is money for the start-up and scale-ups, because there is, of course, a huge amount of new activity around these big clusters, which must be able to get money to scale. We know that we are good at start-ups in the Netherlands, but less in scale-ups. Also there you try to make sure that there are not only start-ups, but also scale-ups in that fur collar of the large semicon industry. These are the various aspects that are covered. And that is where we are actually asking for a good analysis, so that this future European demand is also precisely mapped out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u181	I do not know if people are aware of this, but it is very good what is happening in the European Union. It is good that this is on the agenda at all. I think that is also a start, the eve, of something very big, as we are going to do as European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u182	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u183	But then the question remains: what do you expect to be discussed at that European summit? Because it's on the agenda. And what's this time schedule going to be like by making decisions? Of course, we can talk a lot about that. Of course, we have to take steps, because it's not something you take care of one night. Commissioner Breton has been to the Brainport region. He had billions at his disposal. But does the Prime Minister expect the European Union to make short-term decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u184	In the second term, I will come back to two things: the logistics of transporting vaccines outside Europe, i.e. to countries that depend on COVAX, and this question. I will come back to that in second place. Maybe it has something to do with IPCEI, but I'm not entirely sure. I'd like to be advised on that. I'll come back to those two things in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u185	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I think there is a need for a second deadline. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Prime Minister for his reply. I would like to comment very briefly on Poland, because I believe that there is a great deal of consensus in the Chamber and in my view also in the cabinet that what is happening there cannot and that no Dutch tax money can go there as long as it is going there. It is also of the utmost importance, not only for ourselves but also for all those Poles who see their future in the European Union and who do share the value of the European Union, that they receive the support they need. I also heard the Prime Minister say that he does not want to discuss the rule of law mechanism in the European Council, because he does not get a majority for it. I do not think he should open the deal either, but the Commission's handcuffs should be unlocked so that it can play its role as guardian of the treaties. By speaking out, he might give the Commission the room to maintain. That's actually what I'm talking about. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Poland wishes to place itself outside the European legal order;]] [[Whereas Member States which do not wish to comply with fundamental Union rules should also not have access to European funds;]] [[Calls on the Government not to approve Poland's EUR 36 billion in Recovery Fund plans before Poland meets the recommendations of the European Semester of the European Commission to ensure the independence of the judiciary;]] [[calls on the Government to call on the Commission not to submit the Recovery Fund Plan to the Member States in view of the current situation;]] [[Calls on the Government to speak in favour of activating and implementing the rule of law mechanism as soon as possible at the forthcoming European Council;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at the Council, that the Commission examine whether, pending the Court's ruling on the rule of law mechanism, the funds in question can be apprehended and involve all other means of holding funds and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Kamminga, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Kuzu and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1728]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u188	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. On Poland, I have signed Mr Sjoerdsma's motion and Mrs Ploumen has also tabled a motion which I would like to endorse wholeheartedly. I have two other motions myself, which focus more on the debate on natural gas and energy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Russia suggests that an early entry into force of Nord Stream 2 and a different EU attitude towards Russia will lead to more gas supplies to Europe;]] [[Whereas the adoption of Nord Stream 2 still has to be assessed under the Gas Directive;]] [[Considers that, given Russia's attitude at home and abroad, it is very unwise to move towards a relaxed EU attitude towards Russia;]] [[calls on the government at EU level in accordance with the Van den Nieuwenhuijzen and others motion. urge a rigorous review of the Gas Directive and not to agree to an accelerated entry into force of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, nor to a relaxed EU policy on Russia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Ploumen and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1729]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u190	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extremely high gas price causes a great deal of unrest and increases energy poverty;]] [[Whereas high volatility in fossil fuel prices can also complicate and frustrate the necessary energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to develop energy policy at both national and European level with concrete steering tools, which will enable energy poverty to be reduced, mitigate major energy price fluctuations and prevent sudden shocks in the progress of the energy transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Ploumen and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1730]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u191	Finally, because of the Dutch gas roundabout and the TTF, the Title Transfer Facility, each molecule is traded 70 to 80 times on the gas market. That now leads to extreme prices. It is important that a government can also control the market. I call on the Cabinet to think about that. We can do that in the short term. In any discussion on climate, nuclear energy is mentioned, but it will last for at least ten years. In the short term, instruments are necessary and desirable. I expect the cabinet to take steps on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u192	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u193	Yeah, or I'm gonna take that question home and I'm gonna have to think about it again, but I'd rather not. I have a question about the Nord Stream 2. That is what Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks, is talking about. What does GroenLinks want with that Nord Stream 2? You state: no accelerated procedure. You're against that in principle. That shouldn't happen at all, because that thing is ready. The Americans removed the boycott in August. That thing is 51% in the hands of the Russians and 49% in the hands of Europeans. What does GroenLinks really want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u194	We have been against this whole project from the beginning. I still think so. It is unwise for many reasons. It's not necessary either. Sufficient volume of gas can be transported through the existing pipe infrastructure to Europe. We can see it's a geopolitical instrument. It is bad for Ukraine, but it also makes Europe more dependent in a way that we would not want. We certainly do not want European rules to be split between those who supply the gas and those who own the infrastructure. That is not now settled. A mockery has been put in place to try to comply with European regulations. We shouldn't accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u195	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u196	We fully understand that point of dependence. CDA has also mentioned this in the past. But that pipeline costs 10 billion and it's already done. I think it is quite a firm point of view to say 'we are still against it; it cannot be opened', even if you are against it from the start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u197	Why doesn't the CDA learn from the past? How much money do we spend on speeding up the closure of coal plants that we have built at the wrong time? If we continue on the fossil route and each time we build new infrastructure for fuels that we have to get rid of, then we are running behind the facts. I would like to tell you: learn from the past and try to prevent us from remaining dependent on fossil, which blocks that transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u198	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u199	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and one question. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union's current instrument of sanctions has no option to expel a country from the European Union in the extreme;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at the conference on the future of Europe, the addition of a deployment option to the EU's sanctioning instruments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1731]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u200	The Prime Minister was hoping for a paper on my part. I admit I thought it could be done by way of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u201	I thought he'd go back to the study.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u202	Yeah, it's a little paper, but who knows? There are several roads that lead to Rome. Mr President, the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the EU's multiannual budget 2021-2027 represents an increase in defence-related expenditure of up to EUR 20 billion;]] [[calls on the government to provide a detailed overview of what this budget is used for and which part of the budget comes from the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1732]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u203	And finally, the question. This is about the Council of Europe's report, which states that far-reaching reforms are needed in legislation, implementation and case law to avoid a new supplementing affair. That's a big deal. Can the Prime Minister give an initial response to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u204	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kamminga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I have no supplementary motions other than the motion that Mr Sjoerdsma has just tabled, including on my behalf. I would like to thank the outgoing Prime Minister for his strong signal, particularly about Poland, and for his willingness to send that message to Brussels, especially as I read just now that the Polish Government has ratified the ruling. That was a bit of a wait, but they have also done so by now. We expected that, but it actually went pretty fast. That says something about how they're standing in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u206	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister has just indicated that it might be wise to wait until it is settled at European level, I think it is wise that we, the Netherlands, should not wait for it because we in this Chamber should be able to have a good debate about the contribution that the Netherlands has in Europe. That is why the next motion was tabled by my colleague Marieke Koekkoek. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that adequate information on the establishment and implementation of European policy for the House of Representatives is necessary in order to carry out its audit task;]] [[noting that there is now a black hole for the national parliament between the sheet assessing an EU proposal and the final game of negotiations in the annotated agenda;]] [[Considering that in Germany the ministries, Bundestag and Bundesrat have a digital portal, so-called EuDoX, in which EU documents including national commitment can be consulted for officials, directors, members of parliament and parliamentary staff;]] [[Whereas early active involvement of the House of Representatives in the establishment and (at a later stage) the implementation of European policies is desirable so that it can provide input on the European agenda and represent the voice of citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an EU monitor which will digitally sort all European legislation and policies, including EU proposals, Dutch commitment, national responses, Council agendas and Council reports of Council Working Group and Coreper by theme and file in a government and parliament database,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Kuzu, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1733]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u208	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Prime Minister for raising the issue of illegal pushbacks... that he maximises the possibilities to raise them; let me put it this way. This is of course about Poland and Belarus, but it is also about Croatia and Greece. Those pushbacks need to stop acutely. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank him for his efforts to promote a waver, i.e. a temporary suspension of the patents, on the corona vaccines, at least when discussing the TRIPs, but also at the European Council and possibly the other three options that I have given him. Finally, a motion in addition to an earlier motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the judgment of the Polish Constitutional Court is a frontal attack on the European legal order;]] [[whereas the European Commission, in response to the "gay-free zones" in Poland, previously threatened to freeze funds from the Corona Restoration Fund;]] [[calls on the Government at European level to promote the freezing of EU funds to Poland as long as the rulings of the European Court of Justice are not followed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the European Union can continue to support civil society in Poland through bilateral support or direct transactions from EU funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Dassen and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1734]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u209	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your reply. I have another question and a motion. I asked in the first term whether the Prime Minister thought it would be explained that, on the one hand, Mr Timmermans said that no one had to fly ten to twelve times a year, while on the other hand Mrs von der Leyen was touring the European Union on a recovery plan tour and at the same time it became known that the Commission had increased the budget for the use of the private jets. I was actually wondering, isn't that just a hypocrite? I would still like a more concrete response to that than in the first period. Finally, the motion, a motion to take another step towards a truly sovereign country, a country with our laws and our justice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to state at the forthcoming European Summit that national law takes precedence over European and international law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1735]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the frank debate we could have here on Poland and related matters. At the same time, I apologise to the chairman, because I left it to the President to speak. I still have to learn that, but when people get excited, they often lose sight of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u211	I actually wanted to do that very subtlely and not for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u212	Yeah, we're stuck with it all the time! Okay, but I'll listen to you. I have one motion left after all the emotion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas according to Human Rights Watch, the brutality of opposition parties and citizens in Azerbaijan is "worsened";]] [[Whereas the Eastern Partnership Summit of 15 December 2021 is on the agenda of the forthcoming Euro Summit;]] [[calls on the government to address the deteriorating human rights situation in Azerbaijan at the Euro Summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1736]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u213	Mr President, thank you. It is always nice to see Mr Eppink excited again in this plenary. Keep doing that, Mr Eppink, I will say through the chairman, of course. Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. We do not have a motion, but we do have a comment on Poland. If you are a member of a club, we call it the European value community, then you must also abide by the rules of the club and cannot be rewarded with billions of subsidies. I believe that the whole House today has made it very clear that this is the commitment of the Netherlands. As a CDA, we will continue to address Poland ourselves. I hope that everyone in Poland is listening to this debate today. I hope that they will opt for a better half-way rather than a total error. The European Union remains a value community. It is all short-term politics that takes place there. The citizens there do not deserve this, nor do the Polish citizens who are here in the Netherlands. It is very important that future earning capacity should now constantly return to the agenda. I see that happening every time. Cybersecurity and the EU Chips Act are two very important things. The importance of cybersecurity can be seen every day in the Netherlands: last week VDL; Maastricht University we have had. Count on it to keep coming back. Cybersecurity doesn't stick to physical boundaries. We therefore call on the Prime Minister to tackle these issues in Europe, because they do not stand still in Asia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u214	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u215	Thank you. The Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy and the biodiversity strategy lead to lower yields in agriculture and horticulture, and lower production results in price increases, fewer European exports and more imports of agricultural products from outside Europe. That's what researchers at Wageningen University calculated. That is the third body, after the University of Kiel and the US Department of Agriculture, the USDA, which is launching such an investigation. That's why I have a motion called Food Test. I'm filing it now. I've got some time, so I'm just gonna talk a little bit. I'll take advantage of it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that various studies show that food production will decrease, food quality can decrease and food prices will increase if the European Commission's Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy is implemented;]] [[Considering the need to increase land use in this strategy in order to achieve the same yield and to import more food to the EU in the event of declining food production;]] [[Whereas climate and biodiversity do not benefit from the production of less sustainable and high quality food in countries outside the EU;]] [[Whereas the WTO, the Red Cross and the FAO are deeply concerned about food security in the world and food security can prevent immigration flows;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to use a "food test" in the climate and biodiversity plans and plans with the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy in each consideration or decision, so that informed choices are made and citizens in the Netherlands and the rest of the EU remain assured of good, safe, sustainable, affordable and always available food;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1737]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u216	Actually, I had three motions, but I only have one left. In the other two motions I have something like: they are not going to reach a majority. We know how a number of political parties vote when it comes to opinions given by the Prime Minister. But I do have a very important motion. The Berlin Wall has just gone over there: the Iron Curtain, the apartheid wall in Bethlehem between Israel and Palestine, the wall that Trump would build along the line of Mexico: we have all seen that these walls have in common that they do not bring peace and prosperity to the people. I see that twelve European Member States have put in place plans to build walls, border gates to prevent illegal migration. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that several EU Member States write in a letter to the European Commissioner for Migration that the European Union should invest in border fences against illegal migration;]] [[whereas several EU Member States that have signed this letter are guilty of violently reducing migrants, i.e. pushbacks;]] [[considers that EU Member States should take care of the illegal and violent pushbacks taking place at the external borders in order to prevent them;]] [[calls on the Government to actively oppose this position and not to agree to funding by the European Union of border fences against illegal migration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1738]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u217	Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, my group has also signed a number of motions for resolutions which place a bomb under the European legal order. That is why my group will, of course, wholeheartedly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u218	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Prime Minister has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to give the motions an appreciation and to answer a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u219	The next item is the second term of office, the appreciation of motions and the answer to a single question. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u220	Mr. Chairman. The Venice Commission report will therefore be discussed on 15 and 16 October at the plenary session of the Council of Europe on Friday and Saturday. It's still confidential, so I can't go into the content yet. The opinion is delivered at the request of the Lower House, so it seems to me that it is also primarily up to the Chamber to decide what happens to the recommendations and the report. But once again, I am sure we will be able to discuss this further. Then the logistics of the distribution of vaccines. We mentioned all the 27 million, including 21 million via COVAX. In addition to focusing on increasing access, it is a priority for the Netherlands to bet on Country Readiness. Strengthening health systems is important here. This includes ensuring that countries are ready in terms of logistics, transport and so on. Our commitment in this area includes the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria. There goes 70 million euros to the Global Financing Facility and the WHO. That is 40 million euros and 30 million euros respectively. The Netherlands has also recently announced a new contribution to The Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator. This brings the total Dutch contribution to 250 million euros. The transport to the countries is financed by COVAX itself, has been reported to me. It says here: If he's still asking, it should be included in the next corona letter. But you're not gonna ask any further, so I won't. Then there was a question from the CDA about the EU's actions on chips production. I've had that checked out: it runs along three tracks. One: we work together with Member States and companies in terms of IPCEI: Important Projects of Common European Interest. There we invest together in the further development of this technology in the European Union. For this, money has been released in the current budget. Two: in the upcoming European Council this is how we came to discuss the Commission's proposal for the Chips Act. We support that idea, but it must of course be further developed. We'll wait for that proposal, and then we'll come back to the Chamber with it. In addition, there is cooperation with, for example, the United States in the Trade and Technology Council. As you know, the latter has met. There was a lot to do about it, because of the discussion around AUKUS. That's also about developing semiconductors. So that goes along those three lines. Then there was a question about flying. You know, there's gotta be an occasional flight. Trying to narrow it down would be my advice. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 1728: Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1729 I'd like to dissuade. The cabinet is not about entry into force, and I have already appointed it in the debate. The motion in part No. 1730 I must advise against. It is now up to the Member States to take national measures. We do not want to intervene in the energy market at the moment. The motion in part No. 1731 I do not recommend, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1732 I give Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1733 I would ask you to hold. There is still a need for general consultations on the provision of information. Otherwise, I must discourage the motion, because we also want to see what the European Union comes up with and what is still necessary at national level. But perhaps the most practical suggestion is that Mr Dassen is holding his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u221	I'll take a look at Mr. Dassen. It's called a committee debate these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u222	Commission debate. I didn't know that either. I just heard that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u223	When's the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u224	That still has to be scheduled, I hear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u225	I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u226	Okay. If the motion is to be put to the vote, I must now advise her not to do so, where we may be holding it. The motion in part No. 1734 I must be discouraged because of the first part of the motion, the freezing of the EU fund. That goes way beyond Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. Since that goes much further, I would like to discourage the motion for a resolution for that reason. The second part we do, so I agree. If the first request were to be withdrawn from the motion, the remainder would be Chamber. Perhaps it is another idea that for that motion the formulation of the Sjoerdsma c.s motion. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is used. • is Anyway, I have to discourage the motion as it is now, because it is very final. We really need to see if freezing of the EU fund is possible. I would like to make that appeal to the Commission, as I promised, to see what more you can do than to prevent the RRF from being re-approved. The motion in part No. 1735 is contrary to the EU treaties and I must therefore be discouraged. The motion in part No. 1736 I give judgment Chamber. We are looking at the human rights situation in all the countries of the Eastern Partnership, including Azerbaijan. That's why the verdict is Chamber. The motion in part No. 1737: we still have to wait for concrete proposals from the Commission. That is why I should like to discourage her now. I can also imagine Mrs van der Plas holding the motion until these proposals come forward. But then she's gonna ask me when these proposals are coming, and I don't know. I don't have that ready here. Maybe it's the best thing that I'm deceiving the motion right now, but she might be arrested. The motion in part No. 1738 I don't recommend. I really think it's going too far to move it now. We have to wait and see what the proposals are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u227	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-12-tweedekamer-28.u228	We are going to vote on the motions that have been tabled on Thursday. I thank the Prime Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament, I thank the viewers at home and I close the meeting.
