ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on abuses in gymnastics. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the Members of Parliament and, explicitly, the people in the public gallery, the people involved and the people who are also present, and I welcome the viewers at home. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks for her contribution. She is also the first applicant for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also thank you for starting a bit later. I think it's nice for a lot of people involved to be here. Mr. Chairman. What is the price of a gold medal? This question, which was asked last year by former gymnast Petra Witjes, should be at the heart of today's debate. That is a question to which the sports world, but also we here and the Secretary of State should have an answer. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are here today to talk about abuses in the sports world is thanks to the former gymnasts who are also sitting here in the gallery, thanks to Kim Koumans, who is in the room, and also thanks to journalist Marco Knippen, who is also present above. I stress this because they had to fight for recognition for years because they stood alone against the sports world and outsiders did not believe their story. They used to ring the bell for years. Reports have been written, a book has been published, but in the sports world and following that also in politics The Hague has been looked away for years and there has been no intervention. There was no intervention, while children were often humiliated at a very young age, had to go through training with injuries, eating disorders, were isolated and exposed to a harsh world. Things they still suffer from when they're grown up, right now. Mr. Chairman. I've also been hit because I know the stories of these girls sitting here. I talked to them and their stories really touched me. Turnbond KNGU and last Monday also apologized to NOC*NSF. That's more than right. It is also right that the recommendations contained in the report should be put into practice. We do have a few questions. The first question is whether the term "cross-border conduct" covers the cargo. If that doesn't make it too small, I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State. Isn't this just child abuse and shouldn't we be saying it to each other here? If so, what effect does that have on the case-law? Because if we are talking about child abuse, I dare say that here, then the right of disciplinary action is inadequate. Shouldn't this case have been dealt with by a criminal justice officer, I'm asking the Secretary of State. I'd like a response to that point. Mr. Chairman. It is also particularly painful because the gymnasts who have finally taken the step to start a case have not been properly dealt with by the Institute of Sports Justice. A lot of things are slowing down a lot. Call reports have not been properly handled. While the whole world of sport and at last we all recognise that things have gone brilliantly wrong in the past, many of the accused, of the perpetrators, are still out there and some of them have a function in another place. That goes against my sense of justice. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State how he looks at that. Mr. Chairman. I feel uncomfortable about the allowance of €5,000. I know that this is a standard amount that actually gets all the victims who have been hurt by the government watching. But what is €5,000, as I would like to ask here, if your life is marked by what you've been through in your youth, if you stand up every day with physical and psychological complaints? How is this amount also in proportion to the settlement made by the KNGU gymnasium in 2016 with a trainer for reputational damage? Whoever got €50,000 for reputational damage and if you are a victim of abuse and every day that carries with you the consequences, you get €5,000. Mr. Chairman. It is extremely important that the women affected receive good help. I know there will be a centre of expertise, but is that also going to help the girls who have now stuck their necks out and who have often paid out of their own pockets for years? Mr. Chairman. What is the price of a gold medal? That's the question I started with, and I'm gonna finish with it, too. We need to look carefully at what can be done here and what the role of us is. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to investigate all forms of sport where children start at a young age and are alone with a trainer. Does he want to look closely at the financing structure of sport? Isn't it too focused on performance? What is the Secretary of State going to do with the sports world to make the sport truly safe? Mr. Chairman. Sports should be about having fun and working together. Performance can be a very good part of that, but should not be an end in itself. The price that many athletes have now paid is far too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	That's a good argument. Mrs Westerveld has said a few things about criminal law and disciplinary law. I can sympathise and sympathise with the fact that we may need to take a step to see if we can not do much more criminally about the situations that have taken place. Mrs Westerveld has put a number of questions to the Secretary of State. Could she perhaps tell us a little bit more? I'd like to give her that space about how criminal law could help bring about a sense of justice, what went wrong here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	I welcome this question. I find it complicated myself. Look how the gymnasts have dealt with them now. Look how they, including Kim Koumans, have had to ring the bell for years. When you finally take that step and you get to the ISR, things go wrong with interview reports. We also see that some cases are delayed for months or years. That hurts. That goes against my sense of justice. That's why I'm asking that question. I would like to prevent everyone from admitting that things have gone wrong and that this is going to end up with disciplinary law, but that the perpetrators get away with a slap on the wrist. That is why my question to the Secretary of State is whether this is not a criminal case. If a case comes to the D.A.'s office, shouldn't the D.A. be referred to the D.A. much sooner? Shouldn't things be transferred much sooner, without asking those involved to call again via another legal route? I am therefore very curious to see how the Secretary of State sees this and whether we can also help the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	I am very pleased with this answer, because I think we can find each other there. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to respond in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Laan of D66. It's her maiden speech. As usual, the person holding a maiden speech always gets a little more time and should not be interrupted. Good luck. I call Mrs Van der Laan of D66. It is very nice to see that many colleagues are present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am actually very easy to define on the basis of four topics: family, football, politics and education. I was born at the Keukenhof Estate in Lisse. There I grew up in the beautiful bulb region with my parents, my brother and my sister, and I still live there. Something characteristic of the Bulb Region is that they are hard-working, sober people. My parents passed that on to me, too. We spend a lot of time in football as a family. That's where our sons play soccer and I play soccer. So FC Lisse is my club. For me there is almost nothing more beautiful than the smell of freshly mowed grass, a sunshine and knowing you can play soccer. When I was eight, I started playing soccer. After a long search of ballet, swimming, athletics and gymnastics I finally found my passion in football. And it still is. I turned out to be talented. I went with the boys to play soccer to get even better and we had a really nice team. We actually handled it in a very practical way. I changed my clothes at home, or the trainer let me change first and had all the boys wait until I was finished. That all went well. Eventually we became champion of the main class in 1995 and we would promote to the third division at national level. From that time, I quote the following. "But now the issue of discrimination comes to light. I probably won't be allowed to take my mates to the national division next season, because what does the case want? I'm a girl who can play soccer at the regional level with the boys, but not at the national level. That's what a few gray gentlemen decide who've never seen me play soccer before. They say in a letter that I should play football at a women's association." This is from my handwritten text that is 26 years old. I was talking to "the bobos of the KNVB" at the time, as I called them then. They had briefly told me before that girls had no perspective in football. In a full restaurant on the promenade in Noordwijk and later also live on Radio 1 I actually made my real maiden speech. I was a 15-year-old Jeanet. In the lion's den, I fought for an opportunity to keep playing football with the boys. My protest was in no uncertain words. I accused the drivers of discrimination and I fought for equality. I did. I got permission and after me many girls followed. This allowed me to change the football life of many girls and boys. Mr. Chairman. Beautiful years of top sport followed. Football for the Dutch team, traveling, European football with my club Ter Leede, winning, losing, success and failure: it has made me who I am now. But at that time, female internationals couldn't live off football, so I went to study next to it. At that time I thought that if I started doing that Dutch teacher training and if I learned to speak Dutch very neatly, I might be able to present Studio Sport. Anyway, I got caught up in education. I had a lot of fun teaching at Fioretti College for a little over 18 years. The most beautiful thing about education is that you can give your students that they can do more and can handle more than they think. Studio Sport hasn't come of it anymore. When I was 27, I stopped playing soccer at the top level. I was a little scared of the black hole, so I went to college in public administration. That's how I got involved in local politics. From that moment on, I went into sport in a different way. Mr. Chairman. I am making myself strong for a sport in which everyone feels at home and safe, because sport is for everyone. The political seed for that was planted in 1995. It ignited in me an indomitable fire to strive for equality, not only for myself, but for everyone. I want to get the Netherlands moving for equal rights and equal opportunities. Unfortunately, that is not yet for everyone. Sexism still plays a sad part in our country. It makes it difficult for women to speak out in all kinds of ways, on the sports field, on the workplace, but also here in politics. As a Member of Parliament, I've noticed that when you open your mouth, you sometimes get a big tackle from behind. Open Twitter. Then you see that 10% of all tweets of female politicians contain hatred or aggression. I have also experienced it myself, with all the reactions as a package leaflet, as a woman, as a football star and as a full-time mother. Well, that'll scare you when the reverse is needed. Because I would like to inspire as many women and girls as possible to go to work or to work more to contribute to the major social issues currently facing us, such as inequality in their pockets or staff shortages in education, care or technology. There's no electrician to get. Half of Dutch women are still financially dependent on their partner. In short, much remains to be done. Mr. Chairman. I am fighting for a level playing field, because real emancipation concerns us all. But there wasn't that level playing field within the gymnasium. The gymnasts didn't stand a chance. By their parents dropped off in good faith at the training sessions, where hours were trained, often behind painted windows. There was no pain. So you had to train with broken metacarpals. It was pushed through during agility exercises. They were called "fat cow" or incited to lose weight. Ignore, humiliate, intimidate, physical violence, sexual violence, a gymnasium that looked away and NOC*NSF that looked away. Mr President, through you I say to the gymnasts here in the gallery or at home: you had no chance, locked up and eaten up by the system. Thank you for your courage, but it hurts. It hurts. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the researchers and the attention they have paid to this. They have made a number of recommendations in Unfair Legacies that I understand well. It is good that an apology has been made by the KNGU and NOC*NSF and that a collective recognition scheme is being worked on. The most important thing I think is that athletes are going to report abuses. That's not gonna happen. That's what you read in all kinds of reports: too little is reported. That is also possible because it cannot be independent enough or because there is uncertainty as to where this can be done. A safe and professional place where athletes can go is very much needed. And that is why I advocate making the Centre Secure Sport completely independent. NOC*NSF wants it, the Unfair Legacy report recommends it, so I ask the Secretary of State: what are we waiting for? The position of the Institute of Sports Justice should also be clarified. The chain of reporting to final disciplinary action must be crystal clear. Who is responsible for what, what are the tasks and powers? In addition, all kinds of recommendations have been made on top sport financing, professional supervision, increased grip on trainers and vision on top sport for children. Politics can certainly find something of that, but at the moment we also need to be honest, and sport is not yet a public task and it is difficult to shape government interference around it. I am happy to enter into this discussion and, as far as I am concerned, that is a discussion on a possible sports law. A question to the Secretary of State: what steps can you take to make sport safer? And do you see that a sports law could play a role in that? I'm almost at the end. We can't close our eyes. There are reports of cross-border behavior within various sports. Looking away is not an option. I want to know what's going on, sports wide. And saying that politics isn't about this, I don't think it's enough. The reports are also from Kim Koumans, the brave whistleblower from the dance world. As far as I am concerned, we are also doing an independent investigation with priority for the dance world. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to see if he's willing to do this. Finally, Mr President. Sports is great and has given me everything. But we also note today that there is a very dark side to it. I can't take away the pain, but I can take my political responsibility. And that's what I'm trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mrs Van der Laan. I think you've made it very clear why you're in politics. Good luck in our midst. I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment, so that colleagues can congratulate you. And like Mrs. Westerveld's story, I think your story came in pretty well. It may be a separate transition, but it's also a festive moment, because this is a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	I will give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all a very warm congratulation to Jeanet van der Laan for her maiden speech, with a beautiful personal story, a substantively important subject, and passionate, so that is very nice to see. Because this is about integrity and manners in sport, and they touch Jeanet van der Laan, and they affect us all indeed. Starving, screaming, intimidation, blackmail, isolation, training with injuries, psychic violence, gymnastics kicked into the ground because they never performed well enough in the eyes of coaches, poignant stories about abuses in the gymnasium. And it's not about Eastern Europe in the 1980s. No, this is about the Netherlands, actually until recently. Unbelievable. I also congratulate all those who have revealed this, many here today: indeed the gymnasts, Kim Koumans, journalists and MPs who have worked hard on this. A few things from my side. First of all, we must be there for the victims, of course, and that means help and support. The psychic violence has great consequences for young gymnasts. It leads to low self-confidence and high dose uncertainty, and sometimes to health problems such as anorexia. The Secretary of State also believes that appropriate mental care should be provided. The right treatment is crucial. Can the Secretary of State here today undertake to remain in conversation with those who wish to do so, to keep an eye on what they are running into? And what about recovery mediation and perspective, of course, only for those who want to make use of it? That is a recommendation from the report, but what is happening now, and what is the Secretary of State doing to actively encourage this? The second is the financial component, the concession. It's a good thing there's gonna be one. I agree with the questions already asked by Lisa Westerveld about the amount of the money. And it is not entirely clear to me who is going to pay this compensation anyway; it is precisely a compensation that is going to be paid and to whom it is due. And how does that work? Do people have to prove anything? How low-threshold is this going to be? Because that seems very important to me. My third question is: what happens to the perpetrators? What is being done towards them? Have any criminal acts been committed? Are they being punished? Have other standards been exceeded, for which sanctions could be imposed? I'd like a reaction to that. Fourthly, the reports received by the Sports Association are informal until 2019. If this can be done in gymnastics, it can happen in more places. And unfortunately that is also the case; we know that from the dance world, for example. This is partly covered by sport and partly by culture. Bodies are fragmented; where should you go? This indeed raises the question: should there not be one good, overarching, independent hotline for abuse and other abuses? Because from the victim's perspective, it doesn't matter if your union happens to be part of sport or culture. It needs to be reported. It needs to be addressed. You need help. I'd like a comment on that, too. In the dance world there are thus problems with cross-border behaviour. The Dance Abuse file was triggered by Kim Koumans. That's brave. I have a lot of respect for that. But how big and serious is the problem? Have we figured that out yet? I believe that this too should be properly, thoroughly and independently investigated. I'd like a commitment on this. But an investigation does not alter the fact that we also have to look at what we can already do in the short term. Get to work! Does the Secretary of State see any suggestions such as the introduction of the four-eyed principle of training young dancers, attention in the training of dance teachers for integrity and security, and free legal advice for victims? This is only a first kick-off; there is more to come up with. I'd like a reaction to that. Let's not, if we want an investigation, until then not do what we should already do. Finally, Mr President. The research into the abuses in gymnastics is a good start to a healthier gymnastics sport, but in my opinion we should not see this as a final station, but only as the beginning of the necessary changes, and not just in gymnastics. But I don't think sport can do that alone. We ask a lot of the associations, the unions and the dome. Think of further professionalization. It is right that we should ask for this, for example in order to ensure integrity and avoid problems, but I also believe that sport is right to call on the government. Sports can't do it alone. The Secretary of State should really help as far as I'm concerned. That also requires funding, for example. I'd also like a comprehensive response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. If you as a child have the dream to get the best out of yourself and want to train hard for it, you need an environment that helps, guides and supports you. A safe environment where as a child you go with great pleasure, where you make friends for life and where you can at least expect trainers to have the best interests with you. Mr. Chairman. But for years there have been indications that a whole generation of gymnasts have completely removed the pleasure in sport. Intimidation, fetshaming, profanity, mental abuse, physical abuse, harassment and abuse. These aren't incidents, but it was a structurally toxic environment where dreams turned into nightmares. For all this suffering, sincere excuses are in order, recognition is necessary and we must come to help, support and satisfaction. The gymnasium has already apologized and acknowledged the suffering. I am glad that NOC*NSF, the sports dome, has done so now. The sincere excuses, the recognition and the material and spiritual help are urgently needed for these girls, now ladies, to be able to take a step forward. That should also be the outcome of this debate, which they can continue, but also that beautiful gymnastics can continue, and that the future looks better, despite the pain of the past. That goes for the gymnast of that time, but also for the current TeamNL, which has daily to do with the past of the generation for them. Financial recognition must be made available in good time and in full to those for whom it is intended. That is why the question to the Secretary of State is who will take charge of the execution and the payment. Is this amount a net amount or not? If not, can we learn from what is possible in case of injury payments? Mr. Chairman. We are now talking very specifically about the abuses in gymnastics. We are right to pay a great deal of attention to this. But integrity is not a gymnast problem. We read and hear that there are also signals coming from other branches of sport. I want to make sure that we don't get attention for a branch of sport until someone's brave enough to step outside. We should not be following, but we should get a picture of the whole sport sector. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Looking away by a sports union, like at top dancer Kim Koumans, and leaving the whistleblower to her fate while this abuse happens to her, is truly unforgivable. Internationally, stories from women's football are now emerging. But other branches of sport also have their integrity problems. Integrity is therefore not a specific gymnastics problem, but perhaps in size because in the gymnastics world the contact between trainers and young girls was much more intense and closed than in most branches of sport. As a child with a dream you must be able to rely on a trainer who has the best interests for you, who helps your dream to become a reality as much as possible. As a parent, you must be able to trust that the trainer with whom you leave your child increases and does not reduce self-confidence, increases pleasure in sport rather than destroys it, but especially makes a child mentally and physically stronger rather than damage lifelong. That is why I am glad that the gymnasium is now working on better training of trainers to better prepare them for that training. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: how can we help the Gymnasium to strengthen the training of trainers and, above all, what opportunities are there for involving other branches of sport? Is there any possibility, for example, of introducing a basic module of pedagogy as a basic requirement for training a trainer? Is the Secretary of State prepared to find out what it takes to make this possible? I want to tell all the gymnasts who have had to tell their story so many times over the past few years, which has been heavy and emotional over and over again, so much strength to give this a place. You have fought for it and loosened something that will give other children a safe environment and not be damaged. And I'm just so grateful for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	I am very pleased that Mr Heerema describes it as it has happened. Intimidation and mental and physical abuse are all things that have gone terribly wrong. We are also talking here today about what should happen now, looking at the future of sport but also at what we could do here to ensure that these young women are satisfied. There will be an acknowledgement of €5,000. I find that uncomfortable, because no amount of money will compensate for the suffering that has been done to them. But is Mr. Heerema willing to look with us to see if we could do more? For example, they have had to pay for therapies themselves for years. Actually, not a single amount is enough, but couldn't we see if we can do something more for them this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think it is very good to put that question to the Secretary of State. If you take note of that amount and you know how it came about, where experts have looked at similar other sectors, then that has been some technocratic decision to get to that €5,000. It is never appropriate for what has happened and for the suffering that has been caused, in different forms and in different periods. I find it difficult to say: as a government, we are systemically responsible for what has happened in sport. That is why I think it is very good that the gymnasium and NOC*NSF have made room for this kind of payment. In my view, the low threshold, which Mr Van Nispen has spoken about, is a precondition for this. If we can do more in helping and after care for these girls, ladies, which we are talking about now, I am very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. I welcome this answer. I understand what Mr Heerema says about responsibilities and tasks. At the same time, I think that it is too easy to point to sport, whereas this is a very large proportion of women who have also come out for the Netherlands, for whom we have been cheering together in front of the TV when great performances have been achieved. Doesn't Mr. Heerema think it's also a responsibility of the government to look at the other side, that there's a world behind it that you don't see when you're watching TV, but we've heard about the women who are here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yeah, and of course there's a lot more going on. I think we have all mentioned Mrs Koumans here. We know the incidents, the few trees, as Mrs Van Zanen might call it, in the volleyball world, in the football world, in the athletics world, in the judo world and in the swimming world. So there's a lot more going on. The question is whether as a government we deal with sport, where we have the funding, the structure, the accountability, etc. at a distance from NOC*NSF and we cannot really see it, is the right form of how we should deal with sport. I am in favour of having a much greater grip on this sporting world as a government. In my opinion, this also includes the responsibility for what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	I, too, greatly appreciate the story of Mr. Heerema. He is ambitious in the field of sport, but certainly also in terms of security and integrity. My question is about the latter, about the responsibilities of government, sports association and sports union. Because of course we have also received letters, for example from the gymnasium. The KNGU says: we have 900 clubs, 5,000 trainers and thousands of volunteers, and we have to do everything we can for the safe and honest sport of the future, but we cannot do that alone. They therefore explicitly appeal to the government. But where does the responsibility of such an association stop? What are the responsibilities of the sports union, the dome? And when is it going to be the government? How does Mr. Heerema see this interplay? And what exactly does he ask of the Secretary of State in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	I think that is a very difficult question, because I do not know exactly where that limit of responsibilities ends and begins. I know that as a government we can help very well, for example in training trainers. We can make funds available for this. We can ensure that not only trainers in the gymnastics world, but also trainers in all kinds of other branches of sport can be better equipped and better educated to start their very important task of being in the game with young children. When you take your kid to school, you know you're taking a kid to school where a qualified teacher is standing in front of the classroom, who knows how to handle a class full of kids. But if you go to any sports club, you don't know to what extent the trainer or volunteer standing next to the field is skilled in dealing with children. So I am also very much looking for how we can help. It may sound crazy, but the system we now have in how we deal with the financing of sport and how we can be accountable for it is sub-optimal to get a good insight into it. A sports law could be part of the solution, but I am also thinking of how we deal with sports associations, for example, from the Ministry. Everything now goes through NOC*NSF. It might also be very good to organise certain things, such as security and integrity, directly through sports associations, so that it can see through to sports associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	I think this answer is absolutely true. Yeah, that's what I think. We only have the next point. Mr Heerema also knows that we have a very tight sports budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	Suppose we now, rightly, have an incredible amount of attention to security and integrity. That is, of course, above all else; there is no doubt about it. The point is that if we are to ask this completely from the associations and the sports associations and NOC*NSF, it can also lead to the suppression of other ambitions, which are also very important, such as more young people getting sports and more attention to sports for people with disabilities. Other ambitions can come into the tribulation. Once again, security and integrity are above all else, but does Mr Heerema also think that we should look at the size of the sports budget and at the financing structure of sport, so that one ambition, which is above all else, will not be completely reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	I think Mr Van Nispen knows me as a champion of increasing the sports budget. We've been trying for years, and we've been doing that year by year, every time a little bit. These kinds of issues simply require bigger steps than we have been able to take so far. I hope that it will take a little more shape in the negotiations on a new coalition agreement. One of the top priorities should then be safety and integrity, which sports associations and associations should work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. At home it may not be entirely possible to follow, but here you really feel the emotions in the room when there is very involved talk about the abuses in gymnastics, the abuses in the dance world, the abuses widely in sport and culture. Mrs Van der Laan quite rightly said: you are locked up. Actually, since we've been preparing this debate, I've had a little bit of a picture in my head of a little girl in a gymnasium gym suit in a cold dressing room: small, fragile, elusive, alone, lonely and locked up. I can't quite get rid of that image, because that's what it is: a very small child who is humiliated and abused in this way. Children are being abused. That is why Mrs Westerveld was right to say that there is no'misfits': this is simply abuse and abuse, and that is what we should call it. Because what is very great and life-destructive, you must also name great. It is therefore very good that we are having this debate today. Mr. Chairman. I've done several debates, including on Jehovah's witnesses, sects and other cases, in which abuse played a role. What do they have in common? Closed worlds, a high degree of dependence on adults and little outside supervision. Where this plays, there is vulnerability and abuse and abuse may be lurking, whether they are sports, cultural or perhaps music associations. That is why I would like to support the call for an independent investigation in the broad sense of the word, to stop and prevent abuse in present and future situations in this kind of situation, because I think that is necessary. Two. I would also like to support the plea to go for independent research, because if you still have that dependence in some way, you'll report yourself, pronounce yourself, stand up for your own equal and never make your voice heard completely safe. I therefore believe that it is important that it should be done independently. Mrs Van der Laan was the first to make the call, but I think we can give her broad support. Mr. Chairman. I also think it is right that disciplinary law is not always sufficient. I don't mean to say that criminal law goes faster, but sometimes abuse is so serious that you can't, you have to, and you want to get rid of it with just disciplinary law. If other agreements are made, it's a different story. But if it is so serious, another sanction mechanism must also be put into effect. That is why I would like to wholeheartedly support Mrs Westerveld's plea. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the financial compensation. We are also doing the debates on abuse and abuse that have taken place in youth care. There too we have inconvenience over the €5,000. It's not about the money, but it looks like it's saying, "we're giving a pet over the sphere, we're giving a sum of money and that's the end of it," whereas of course that's not the case. What is the price of a gold medal? You're sacrificing your life to the sport. Then you literally sacrifice your life completely, because you stand still, because you have psychic suffering, because you carry something with you for life. That cannot be caught in such a standard amount of money. The SP and GroenLinks said that. I'd like to go along with that. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore a question of independent supervision. It's about looking broad, because this doesn't just happen in gymnastics or the dance world. This occurs in more areas. Disciplinary law is not sufficient where criminal law should play a role. I think financial compensation is extremely important. I hope that we will also hear this as a conclusion to this debate from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mr President. "You became object in a penal camp and judged and convicted each time." "He screamed every training." "My toes were broken and I hated myself, found the trainer. Also the physio said nothing." "We had to weigh very often, sometimes up to four times a day on the scale." Mr. Chairman. These are some quotes that show how a young, driven athlete ends up as a victim of a toxic training culture. I therefore have nothing but admiration for the courage and great tenacity of the ex-gymnasts who opened a booklet to ensure that the cesspool finally opened up and to fight for recognition and safety for a whole new generation of children who are passionate about gymnastics. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Sports is important. Sports should be safe and above all fun. I'm not familiar with gymnastics. I'm also not familiar with training methods that are part of top sport. But some common sense tells me that isolation, intimidation, exclusion, manipulation and abuse of power should not have anything to do with sport, nor should it have anything to do with top sport. Although young top athletes are expected to train hard and try to push their limits, this should not be done at any price, not in any way and of course not with the enormous negative impact that that has to date. Mr. Chairman. The report Unequal Legends shows the nature and extent of the cross-border behaviour in gym sports. That's not bad. I continue to find it amazing that for years sports did not see or did not want to see what was happening behind their own front door. Explicit apologies, as offered by NOC*NSF this week, are therefore only justified. It was a pity, in itself, that this was delayed for another six months. As former gymnast Stephanie Tijmes at Op1 said: it may be a bit late; it could have happened in April, but I think it is very good. Recognition of responsibility through a financial concession to the group of ex-turnsters is also appropriate. It is good that that step is now being taken. Can the Secretary of State indicate when, how and to whom exactly this regulation is actually going to apply? A number of colleagues have already asked some questions about this, and I am happy to endorse that. Many athletes have indicated that they need individual help, aftercare, a tailor-made treatment, with a one-stop shop, as the Advisory Committee on Integrity and Ethics also mentions. Is this getting off the ground enough? How many ex-turners do they use and how many don't yet? Does that have a specific reason? Is that because, for example, it is not appropriate enough? Is it true there's an end date on it? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I hope that lessons will be drawn from this for the future. For how can one trust that things will be different now, that they will act now? How can you, as parents, drop off your child with peace of mind for training? Does the Secretary of State still see a role for them in this whole? Mr. Chairman. A few questions. What has already been set in motion to make the world of gymnastics safer for the current athletes? What remains to be done on the basis of the recommendations? Does the Secretary of State see a role for the Ministry of VWS in this? If so, which one? Then there's my last question. As can be seen in the position paper of former gymnast Petra Witjes, she vents her serious doubts about the functioning of the Institute of Sports Justice. I would therefore very specifically like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Finally, Mr President. Gymnastics is a wonderful sport and the confidence in that sport must be restored, for all those young athletes who want to practice their hobby at a high level or not, for all those people who train with passion young talent and for everyone who loves gymnastics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Omtzigt. JA21 has recently spoken loudly and clearly about the great value of a school as a safe environment for children. That goes for every school, wherever it is. However, abuses are not limited to education. Previous speakers have argued in all possible terms how unprecedented and unacceptable the abuses that have taken place in gymnastics are. The same applies to a gymnasium as to a school: abuses are unacceptable. That goes for every gym, wherever it is. The indignation of this Chamber is a joint indignation, which shares JA21. A lot of athletes have suffered a lot of abuse. There's recognition for this. Repetition should be avoided. Mr President, a small personal note. I've been dancing at quite a high level myself. I know what it's like to perform and pursue perfection. I also know from my own experience what dealing with pressure means. My group is calling for a balanced approach on this point, because rejecting abuse is something other than rejecting performance. The search for prevention of abuses takes place on the balance bar of healthy pressure. Mr. Chairman. Let us be realistic: practicing top sport means putting pressure and dealing with pressure. Top sport means encouraging performance in which top athletes transcend themselves. The Dutch top sports policy receives broad support from this Chamber. At the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games, the Netherlands is proudly orange. The Kuip rang last Monday, when the Dutch Team played Gibraltar off the mat. I quote the government website: "Topsport can inspire people in many ways and is of great social value. The government supports the top sport financially. Top athletes should be able to devote themselves to their sport." That's official policy. This official policy means that we accept that top sport is groundbreaking. Top sport hurts. What we are supposed to distinguish is pain that is part of performance and pain that is the result of controlling, manipulating, isolating and obsessive training. That is the pain of top sport that waltzes over the physical and psychological condition and need of the athletes. If we fall off that balance bar, we'll clap hard on the floor of abuse. The abuses of gymnastics and other sports emphasise how much top sport needs good, sporty, social and mental guidance. Charging a waterproof system won't work. In my group's view, what does work is a deep sense of responsibility: first and foremost, with parents and carers and, first and foremost, with trainers and with everyone involved in the pursuit of top-level sport. I say 'first of all' twice, because this is a joint responsibility. This is for JA21 first. To ensure that the boundary between performance and abuse is not crossed, it may be good to raise this issue regularly. A hand-out can be helpful for that. My group will table a motion on this in the second term. Finally, a comment on the Institute of Sports Justice. In the media there is quite a lot of criticism of the way disciplinary law functions. One of the former gymnasts says: "The disciplinary system does not seem to be designed for our business. That's what we're running into right now. They tried to bring my story about a daily form of terror back to a single incident." How does the Secretary of State view this? Trust in disciplinary justice is indispensable for the sense of justice. And what these athletes deserve is for them to be done justice. We shall also table a motion on this subject together with Mr Omtzigt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about 20 minutes to prepare himself. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u32	The next item is the continuation of the debate on abuses in gymnastics. The next item is the time-limit for the cabinet. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are having an interesting debate on the Unfair Legacies report. I think that title is very good; it completely covers the load, because it was an unequal fight. Mistakes in gymnastics. First of all, I would like to thank the spokesmen for the respectful way in which they talk about this important issue. In my opinion, we agree on a lot of things, namely the steps we have to take, including the responsibility of the government. That is what we are going to talk about this afternoon, of course. Compliments for the input, in particular for the maiden speech holder, Mrs Van der Laan. Very warm how she can feel what people are experiencing in these abuses from her experience as an ex-top athlete. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the researchers for the thorough research carried out by Verinorm, because that is, of course, a very important ingredient for taking steps that are necessary and which we need to take to ensure that sport is healthier. And perhaps most importantly, I would like to pay tribute to the ex-turners, the top athletes who are also partly present here in the gallery. On behalf of you, Mr President, I would like to address them with great respect, because I find it extraordinary that they have brought it up in this hectic week but in fact already hectic years to be here this afternoon. It is a loaded subject; I think it is also rooting in a wound. Some of the ladies also had television appearances after the apologies of NOC*NSF. Very loaded and all the more respect they have to be here. To be honest, I hope that we will not disappoint the people who are here, but also the people who are watching, because there will undoubtedly be those who will not be disappointed with the outcome. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld, the applicant for the debate, sums it up so well: what is a gold medal worth? That's the whole point, that's the whole story. We've had some really nice Olympics and Paralympic Games over the past summer. I too, as a representative of the cabinet, have watched a great deal of this sport. I looked on my mobile all the time: how are we in the medal mirror? You know, guys, guys, there's a whole world behind it. We have all seen Mrs Biles with her sad story, in which the ladies in the gallery will recognize a great deal. In short, sport should bring pleasure, but with the knowledge that we have now, it is almost impossible for you to go to a sport like gymnastics but perhaps also look at many other sports with mixed feelings: you should know how they have come to this achievement. That's very acidic and we have to get rid of it. Because sport is supposed to be beautiful, it's supposed to be fun, it's supposed to be fun and it's supposed to connect us. That's not self-evident. Sports has shadow sides and we have that by the head today. Terrible, heartbreaking stories, stories that have nothing to do with sports. I've also heard and read those stories in person. They're gonna grab me to the throat. It hurts a lot when I hear the stories. Then I think, "Oh, boy." One of the spokesmen also said it: this is not the Eastern bloc in the 1980s, this is the Netherlands in the 21st century. I would like to express my admiration and respect for the athletes for bringing out their story. They have had to overcome a great deal for that. And then when you bring it out, you'll hear: why didn't you say so? That's not empathy at all, it's not empathy at all, it's not empathy at all, it's people who criticize it. I would also like to commend the athletes for actively thinking about solutions. They have written position papers and put in points that we can use to improve the situation. What struck me most is that the victims in question were so young and so isolated that suffering had to be suffered. They couldn't turn to anyone. If they could reach out to their parents and get that story from their trainer, they got to hear it for a while during the next training. A few quotes: "When we won medals, everyone applauded, but when we raised abuses and needed help, everyone looked away, the other way." "Day in, day out we were damaged, physically and mentally. During an exercise, I fell very hard on my head. I stayed down, but no one came to help me." It's weird. "We were like a zombie, we trained with pain, we were exhausted and yet we had to go on." I'm very concerned about that. As Secretary of State, but also as the father of four daughters, I say as a little greying Mr. O'Brien, I have certain images of that. It's a good thing we're going to discuss that and we're going to take a serious look at solutions. It is important that the stories are told openly. Fortunately, that happens now, but something must be done about it. That's what's gonna happen. I think sport has really set an example. KNGU did so quite soon after the completion of the report Unequal Legacies. NOC*NSF has fortunately also come up with excuses this week. I think that is very, very important for the victims. Those are the excuses. We also have the allowance of €5,000. That is a second gesture that the sport sector is making. I shall go into the details later. But to answer the question of who pays, the sport sector, the KNGU and NOC*NSF do so together. They're doing something other than apologizing and that concession. They have drawn up a plan of action to help ensure that the recommendations in the report on Unequal Opportunities are implemented as well. It is also about educational climate, other culture and so on. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say two things to the former athletes who have felt so trampled and still bear the consequences on a daily basis. I've heard and read the stories. On behalf of the cabinet, I would like to emphasise that cross-border behaviour, or worse, definitely does not belong in sport, not then, not now, never. As the new director of the KNGU, Marieke van der Plas, says very nicely: pushing boundaries does not mean crossing borders. That's the first thing. The second thing I want to say is that I realize that nothing can take away the suffering caused, nothing. I can say that in the same way as Mrs Den Haan; I think she said that so beautifully I take my responsibility. She can do that as a Member of Parliament and I as a representative of the cabinet. That's what I want to do. In my term, I want to indicate what the cabinet, the government, wants to do. I'll name seven things. That doesn't mean I'm gonna do a game who does most things, but I'm gonna call seven things. The recognition comes, the €5,000 concession. That requires a whole organization. Helping with the applications, the implementation organisation, takes care of the Empire, VWS. The support of Victim Aid The Netherlands is also part of this. That whole package wants the Empire to take responsibility. That's one. Two. We want to help make better help and aftercare possible. That's what I talked to the gymnasts about. That's the route that goes through the UMCG and Victim Help Netherlands. That's a second lead. Three. Disciplinary law must be professionalised. When it comes to the Institute of Sports Justice, Petra Witjes is rightly cited as an authority. She says it can do a lot better. That's what we're gonna invest in. It's gotta go faster. That means extra capacity is needed. It also needs to be more professional. That is a third responsibility that the cabinet takes on by making it financially possible, because it costs a lot of money to get it right. Four. Contribute to the follow-up of other recommendations in sport. That is an explicit point. That report, of course, contains recommendations for the Empire. We can take responsibility for this by taking better care of matters. That is what we want to help facilitate from the government. I would like to mention just a few examples: prevention, information and awareness of cross-border behaviour, a pedagogical vision, the handling and training of trainers and coaches in this area. I shall come back to Mr Heerema's specific point about this and to the discussion of the subject at sports clubs through pilot gardens. In short, we take seriously the recommendations that are specific to a co-responsibility of the government. We are also making funds available for this. Five. Monitoring what happens every year. That is, I think, quite an important point. Every year we want to put the thermometer in to see if we are taking the steps needed to improve sports culture, not only in gymnastics, but also wider. Every year we will therefore monitor the follow-up of the recommendations. Of course, that is what we are linking back to the Chamber. Then the whole of the Netherlands can also take note of this. That's five. Six. I'm working on the current policy of the Sports Agreement. Together with parties I am working on a positive sport culture. That's very broad. It was already in motion. We do this through a project-based approach for a positive sports culture at unions, the club framework coach, the Halt approach in sport, training and more. We do this through Part-According 6: Top Sports that inspires. Seven. In the shortest possible time, I want to start a broad study of the top sport culture in the Netherlands. That doesn't just affect gymnastics. This has been the subject of intensive research. It certainly also touches the dance sport, which has been mentioned by almost all spokesmen, and other branches of sport. Then it's all about sports culture. What kind of culture do we have with each other? That research will be carried out by Verinorm. They have a name to lose. I should also like to mention the research report that is before us for discussion. The Utrecht University of Applied Sciences is also involved. These are the seven points on which I want to take steps. That is a commitment to the Chamber about our contribution from the government to improve this. I now have six or seven separate questions to answer that have been asked by the spokesmen, but I see that the Lordema already wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u34	That's right, and then Mrs. Westerveld. But first Mr. Heerema, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u35	I think it is a good time to exchange views on these seven points. I have two questions. My first question concerns the second point: aftercare. I think this is very important, especially for the group that sits upstairs in the gallery. But it's also about the group of about 100 gymnasts who still experience the aftermath of what happened every day and need support and help with it through therapies with EMDR, or what to call it all. What exactly does aftercare look like? Are you going to make arrangements with insurance companies? Are you going to set that up from the Ministry? I'm just trying to get my finger on that. Can I ask my second question right away, or do I do it after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u36	Maybe first the answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u37	For the overview it might be useful for me to answer this question straight away, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u38	Yes. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u39	Then I will take Mrs Maeijer's question with me. It was about the care and aftercare process. Until when will that be available? Is there an end date on et cetera? That is a fair question from Mr Heerema. We are working with the UMCG on a specific track for how we can help victims. You mention EMDR or other treatment methods. I'm not a professional, so that's not up to us. There are contacts left and treatment groups are coming. The UMCG has committed itself to doing so specifically for the victims of this terrible situation. That's the broad track. In addition, we have the regular ggz for everyone with a help question in the ggz or otherwise. It's open to everyone. It is important that we have a separate track through the UMCG. How do people get there? This can be done through the GP, but a separate window is in any case Victim help, where people can go with their question. Victim support can then refer them to this type of help and can help people on their way to appropriate help in all cases of cross-border behaviour. I do see a questioning look on Mr Heerema's face, so there will be a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u40	Yes, because it is very important to get this very clear and sharp. If I hear it so well from the Secretary of State, this means the following for the demarcation. The group of women eligible for this compensation may end up in a trajectory either via the UMCG or via the ggz without too much hassle. They do not necessarily have to be treatment groups, because I can imagine that individual pathways should also be followed. But it means that that's just gonna be taken care of. I think that is important, because there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u41	I have already had a lot of ggz debates and "just settling in the ggz" is easier said than done. But trust me, we will certainly take very seriously the UMCG track, which is specifically designed for this purpose. I also talked about this with the ladies, the ex-turners. We also listen to their input. If they say "this and that doesn't work out," we'll talk about it. But that is a very specific track that is tailored to this problem. In addition, of course you have the regular ggz. If someone says "I can sleep badly," they can also go to the regular ggz and do not necessarily have to go to Groningen or elsewhere via a very separate track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr Heerema has another question and then I go to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u43	The second point has been sufficiently answered for me. Then I have a question about the sixth point, the Sports Agreement. That's what you're gonna check with the co-signators, I suppose, who also find something of a safe sports climate. Then I'd think two things are important. One is that it becomes very clear what the co-signators of the Sports Agreement actually deliver for this situation, because there are a lot of signatures under that Sports Agreement. I've been looking into what exactly everyone's been delivering over the past two or three years. After all, I cannot see what is being delivered. Here, therefore, it is important that the signatories to the Sports Agreement actually deliver. I have one more question about that. You're going to take that under sub-agreement six. I find that too scary, too narrow, too limited, because it is not just about top sport. It is also about talent recognition and development. It is also about soccer players on the field who are called off by their trainer, while they are not at all engaged in top sports. So it's wider than just top sport. I would ask you not only to look at partial agreement six on top sport, where it also fits in part, but also to look at which chapters in the Sports Agreement it might fit better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u44	We are in common agreement. That means we're listening to each other. I think that Mr Heerema is hitting the nail on the head. We want to see it wider than top sport, because we want everyone to have fun and beautiful sports. The fact is that the issue we are talking about now is that I also want to do justice to the ladies in the gallery and the people who are watching at home really is about people who have ended up in the top sport via a very painful route. That's where the heart of this problem takes place, so to speak. I agree with Mr Heerema when he says: yes, but it is sport-wide, because also in amateur sport there will be abuses. That is what the responsible players in the world of sport must be called upon to do. I'm just a short spokesperson for Sport, I'm thinking, Chairman. In the Prevention Agreement on Healthy Living, Food, Alcohol and Smoking, I inform the Chamber periodically about the state of play and also about who is in charge and who complies with his commitment and the commitments made. I imagine that in the run-up to this autumn's Sport legislative consultation, I will give you an interim report on which actors give their views at home and which do not comply with the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u45	Finally, Mr Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u46	Yes, Mr President, finally indeed. I think it's en-and, both top sport and possibly other chapters. Because every gymnast who ended up in the top sport has come a long way, starting in that gymnasium around the corner, where the first steps have been taken in the system in which they ended up. So we really need to sit out front and not just look at chapter six. I have the feeling that the Secretary of State has responded positively, so that is very pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yes. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u48	We too welcome the fact that a number of steps are being taken to ensure that things improve in the future, but here I am with a rather uncomfortable feeling. It was not for nothing that we just walked upstairs with a few spokesmen, where there are a number of victims who really stuck their necks out. Things are being rigged up now, which hopefully will benefit people in the future, but which will not help these victims. I am talking, for example, about people who are now sitting there every week, because they have physical complaints or psychological complaints. They see the bill every time, because not all care is paid. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider this dilemma. 'Cause that $5,000 is fine, of course. It's a concession. It is also not explicitly something that you can say will alleviate all the suffering. It's a concession. But it's a long way from coming, because they get the bill every time on the bus of that therapy where they have to go because of what they've been doing to them in their youth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mrs Westerveld is also quite right to make this point, but I find it complicated. Because I see the suffering of the victims. I see that they have to claim more than average physiotherapy or mental health care, and then they have to pay a share at some point. That'll cut you through your soul. At the same time, I find it very complicated. I am very excited to say in another debate against another group, which, for example, has to appeal to the ggz, that we cannot meet them even though they also have complaints, while we are doing so with the people we are talking about today. I would like to think with Mrs Westerveld about the question: how can you stretch in that and what can you do? I also think that, as a national government, we should look openly at whether we can say to everyone that that is fair. Mrs Westerveld is also a spokesperson for youth aid, youth-ggz. There are thousands of children who, for example, are victims of domestic violence. You could also say: shouldn't you also meet them in such a way that they pay much less at their own risk than others? I am very sorry to say this, but our system is structured on the basis of solidarity in such a way that people pay their own contribution or risk at some point. For me, the key question here is: for which group do you make an exception? You have to be able to explain such an exception to the other group, which is also in terrible trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u50	I'd say there's a 400-page report. It explains what went wrong here. On the basis of that report, both the gymnasium and the gymnasium apologized. I assume the Secretary of State heard them: those words were not wrong last Monday. It was said very clearly: we have looked away from what has happened here for years at the sports dome. They were kids who actually needed help. Therefore, I do not think the comparison is entirely appropriate, because this is really a group that has clearly been a victim, while the sports world, the government and, in fact, everyone was looking away. This happened while a lot of those things were also known for a very long time. So mistakes have been made. They are recognized by the sports dome, by the government. They are clearly described in Marjan Olfers' report. I believe that this includes a responsibility, of the sports world, but also of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u51	I also think it is a perfectly fair point and I agree that any comparison is flawed. But we have also had the debate on the findings of the De Winter Committee on victims of youth aid. They have also been really abused in youth aid for many years. They were raped, assaulted, humiliated. They also received this allowance of €5,000. And they also have very high burdens related to ggz assistance or otherwise. As far as I am concerned, we should look at this much wider. Based on what criteria are you going to facilitate specific exception groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u52	Some of the spokesmen who are here today have also had the debate on the report of the De Winter Committee. Even then, the Chamber found that the €5,000 was uncomfortable. I spoke to a number of victims last week, some men over 50. They are unemployed and they have actually experienced similar cases. They've been abused all through their childhood. There too, I find this amount uncomfortable. So let's broaden this discussion. I understand that no amount of money is good, that no amount will alleviate the suffering, but €5,000 for everything that went wrong while the government could have supervised it, I continue to find very uncomfortable, both for victims of violence in youth care and for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u53	I don't think this is a question. I can only endorse that feeling uncomfortable and I think it is widely shared here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u54	I'll take a look. Mrs. Van der Laan had given a signal. Is that about another point? First Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u55	Excuse me, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u56	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u57	I'd like to make it even more specific. It is, of course, about institutional, with a beautiful word, abuse and institutional abuse. That's what's actually going on. A group of women and men who have been systematically humiliated, abused, abused. That's exactly the difference with an individual victim in a sex case in the family atmosphere. The Secretary of State feels that way. That is exactly the kind of discussion we have had about violence in youth care. That is why the €5,000 was also uncomfortable, because there you see permanent disability and permanent disability. That's what these ladies do. I point while I say "ladies" because they're in the stands now. In short, if the Secretary of State feels this, I am not saying that it is easy, and I would like to ask him specifically how he is going to look at it and when we are going to get a feedback from it, because I want to take this point and I think we really need to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u58	I would like nothing more than to make an arrangement which the victims also say: we can do something with this, we can do it, and this does not mean that we have to bring a lot of money ourselves when we call for ggz assistance, physiotherapy or other types of aid. I can feel that discomfort. At the same time, we have had these discussions before. I would then like to take it much and much wider and not specifically mention it on this subject. Mrs Kuik rightly says that there was also institutional injustice in the provision of youth aid for decades. There are children who have just been abused for ten years or more. I don't want to gradations in grief, of "well, he's got worse sadness" and "that's not so bad." It's all shit. In fact, you need to look at how to take responsibility as a government, so that you can keep looking at yourself in the mirror and say: we did what we could. It can all be traced back to that amount of €5,000, which we obviously found to be good in our wisdom. Maybe we should have a broader discussion. If the Chamber thinks that we should encourage this, I think it is up to her to do so. What I'm doing is doing it. I do not do that as a mak lamb, but according to what we have agreed and what we have organized, say, other types of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u59	The beauty of it is that you are the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u60	Demissionary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u61	It doesn't matter. We can therefore call on you to do so by means of a motion. Mrs Westerveld already has one in her pocket. At a time when you yourself feel that we should indeed look at this more broadly because it is systematic abuse, abuse, where the government should have played a supervisory role, I think it is justified that we should look at that. That we didn't solve that right away, from today to tomorrow, I get it. I'd say pick up that glove, you can and you can. 'Cause you might be a missionary for another year. We don't know. You will also have a role in another cabinet, I would say. So I would almost say, please, pick up that glove and pick it up wide for youth care and for gymnastics and dancing. It's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u62	I understand Mrs. Chicken's wish very much. In fact, I am very much in agreement with her speech. I just wonder whether we should start this wide-ranging debate through this debate or whether we should do it in another field. We'll be dealing with the U.S.S. budget in two weeks. I would like to take a broader approach rather than the route of this debate. I think it would be a little unusual if we said: we are seeing this happening here. We saw this a few months ago in the debate on the De Winter Committee. It's been a year, I think. I find it a little strange to suddenly open it up to all types of aid, through this debate, in relation to this €5,000 grant. I think that's a little inappropriate. Then I would like to do so in a broader debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u63	Yes, but whether I speak to the Secretary of State or in the same debate in two weeks' time, it remains the same room with the same people. So nothing's wrong. It will now be discussed again. Anyway, I hear the Secretary of State say he thinks he should. He also explains himself why he has to, but he doesn't dare yet. Well, then we'll have to provoke it by means of an address to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u64	Responding to that. I don't know what Mrs. Chicken means by "must." I'm just saying I understand her approach. I also say that if the Chamber thinks that we should look more broadly at this, not only at the victims of violence in gymnastics, but also at youth aid and perhaps other sectors in society, then this is a mission for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u65	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u66	This is not a very political debate, and yet I am playing this high, because this point is constantly coming back on these extremely emotional and loaded issues. I have great respect for the input from the Secretary of State and for the commitments that have already been made. I also see that it affects him as much as it affects us. But this has to be played hard, because these ladies are 20 years away. They haven't been heard, they haven't been listened to, and in fact we can't get anything for them today. This is the only point where we can work something out. That's why I play it so high and that's why it gets to me. This is the only real button we can turn for these victims. The rest is to prevent future victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u67	Of course, the latter is not entirely true. The money's not the only thing. Moreover, the sports sector has taken responsibility for providing this concession, not the government. It is going to finance the accompanying policy, but the concession itself regulates sport. We all agree that this is right, because it is primarily the responsibility of sport. They have also apologized and added the deed to the word. But I do notice when the Chamber says that €5,000 is the way to do something about it. I don't think it's the only button. For example, we also have the trail of assistance and care from the UMCG, and there are other things. At the same time, I would also like to stress that the victims are of immense value and significance to all future athletes. They do a huge service by ensuring a healthier sport culture. That is no good to them now, but hopefully it will bring great satisfaction to future athletes. That is not good for them now, but it is good for them to know that they are doing a huge service to future athletes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u68	Mrs Van der Laan has put Mr Van Nispen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u69	I appreciate the involvement of this Secretary of State. You can see it really hits him. Yeah, who doesn't? However, I have difficulty with the last answer. The House is being asked to look at the reimbursement of the healthcare costs that people have to incur as a result of their trauma, as a result of what we are talking about, namely those major abuses in gymnastics, all these years; indeed, Eastern European situations in the Netherlands, until recently in fact. So it's that bad. We have this big debate here. Money doesn't make everything right, absolutely not. That $5,000 is just an amount. That can never be enough, but at the same time no amount is high enough. But when it comes specifically to people who incur costs, care costs, as a result of that trauma, the reaction of the Secretary of State is: I think that we should go wider, because there is still more injustice in our society. That is what the Secretary of State actually says: there are more groups who are wrongly paying their care costs; we need to make the discussion much bigger. But then what happens? This is gonna take forever. It'll take a very long time. We must then have a whole discussion about our healthcare system. The SP likes to have this discussion about healthcare costs and the healthcare system, but that doesn't help these people at all today. Because we can't do much for them anymore. There are limitation periods in criminal law and civil law. That's incredibly complicated and very painful. So what do we have to offer them? However, at least we can do something about the costs they have to incur as a result of the trauma. So let's not make it so broad and put it on the long track, but really just see what we have to offer on that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u70	I understand that, too, but it's a little too easy for me. Let it be clear that I am in favour of the victims of abuses in gymnastics, and certainly a happy life, that they can finally take their lives well. Money can play a very important role in this. Of course I'll give them that. At the same time, we are supposed to serve the general interest as a state government. If we say that we are going to fix it for this group today, then that is very noble, but then all other groups will come along to us who have also claimed €5,000 to say: we are not, how about that? I try in all reasonableness and honesty to show that it is not a question of equal monks, equal hoods. But there are similar situations. In other situations too, concessions have been made where we said: €5,000 is a symbolic amount. Mr Van Nispen cannot fail to remind me that I recall that much more is coming from behind. I think it's too easy to say: we're taking care of this group now and we'll see how we're doing with the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u71	No, I don't blame the Secretary of State, but I don't think this is too easy. I find it very difficult to have this debate today and to see what we can do for these people. I hope the Secretary of State understands that I have difficulty with the argument that there are more groups for whom it is unfair or that there is more injustice. "We're not gonna see what we can do for this group today" can't be an argument, can we? Of course, for victims of abuse in child care, we also have to deal with it. I also understand why the Secretary of State would say: then we have to look at the overall budgetary consequences and so on. All of that may be true, but we are here to solve injustice if we see it. That's what we're trying to do here today. That's why I'm really appealing to the Secretary of State. The $5,000 people get is just a sum. But if you have to use that amount, which is already very small, to pay for the care costs, the treatments, which are the result of the great trauma because of the abuses we are talking about today, then that is very acidic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u72	Again, I understand Mr Van Nispen very well. Only, exactly the same arguments were mentioned in the debate on the De Winter Committee, about abuses in the provision of youth aid. There too, 30s, 40s are suffering enormous traumas and enormous care costs as a result of these abuses. The exact same point was raised, namely: is €5,000 sufficient? I think it will be a repeat of arguments now, but I think it would be perfectly logical for you to look a little further than this vulnerable target group if you put and answer the legitimate question that Mr Van Nispen is putting on the table here. Then you should also look at other target groups that are not in the same but in a similar situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mr Van Nispen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u74	Finally. We have already asked that question as SP. We believe that care for a lot of people is too expensive and that we should actually move to another healthcare system. But I think it's almost silly that I have to pick that up here today, because it's about these people today. What good is that to them today? Surely I cannot say to them: in four years' time there will be new elections; then the election results will be different and there will be another care system with lower care costs? Of course, we're not gonna play that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u75	Please don't, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u76	No, please don't. So I'm not. That is why I am trying to make it small and not to have that big discussion about unfair healthcare costs in the Netherlands, but rather to have the debate about those who have been injured today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u77	It continues to share the same arguments, because Mr Van Nispen cannot deny that it must have consequences in other areas if you are to regulate this. His group is very consistent in this. He says take away his own risk of care and take more generously with compensations. The majority of the Chamber decides otherwise, at least in the other debate. How it ends this afternoon, I do not know, but I would like to continue to look at the whole thing without wanting to fail anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u78	It is very good that the Secretary of State indicates that the government is also going to play a role. I would like to ask you a few more questions. He states that the government will also play a role in helping and aftercare. But what does he think of the role of the local government? Municipalities are primarily responsible for access to support, assistance, care. They need to know what their residents need. They are responsible for the Participation Act. In what way are municipalities involved? This question also applies to working on a positive sport culture. The national sports agreement has been translated into a local sports agreement. Not every municipality has a local sports agreement, but that's what the positive sport culture is all about. How are they put in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u79	A fair question from Mrs Van der Laan. I would like to respond positively to both. I agree with Mrs Van der Laan that municipalities have a very important role to play here. As regards providing people with an opportunity to get to work under the Participation Act, providing adequate benefits or assistance under the Social Support Act, the municipality is called upon to do so. On that first point, I would like to say to Mrs Van der Laan and to the whole Chamber that I will stress in consultation with the municipalities that they also have a responsibility there. I will also ask the municipalities to look specifically at this target group. If there are any questions, those involved should not be sent away with a brat in the reed. That is the first aspect. Municipalities have their own responsibility. The city council controls, but I promise to bring this explicitly to the attention of the municipalities. That's one. When it comes to the positive culture and involvement in the Sports Agreement: fortunately, the majority of the municipalities are engaged in a sports agreement and many already have a sports agreement. If it is up to me, there should also be a sports, movement and prevention agreement during the new cabinet period, in which there will be agreements with many parties and especially with municipalities on, for example, a healthy sport culture, a healthy culture of movement. In the same consultation with the municipalities I mentioned, I would like to highlight this. But I would like to extend this agenda to a new sports agreement. If it is up to me, there will be a new agreement with agreements on healthy living, moving and sports, in which the commitment of the municipalities must be strongly underlined. When I'm in position, I do my best to involve municipalities in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u80	It's nice to hear that the municipalities are being set up. Then we would also like to have as broad a look as possible, because municipalities, for example, also have poverty funds. For example, they can stimulate the conversation with the health office or the housing corporation, if this is the case. I think it is very important that they get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u81	Yes. I was an alderman myself. Municipalities say: we have the most insight into individual situations; we are closest to the inhabitants. In this sense, I also think it is entirely right for Mrs Van der Laan to call on municipalities to take up this responsibility, especially in relation to this target group of victims of the abuses in gymnastics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u82	I had another question about the research you announced: a wide-ranging research into sports culture. You know there's a motion on behalf of nine parties. It calls for wide-ranging research into cross-border behaviour within sport, but also with prioritisation within the dance world. I have a few questions about that. Dancers may or may not be affiliated to a dance union. Is the investigation you announce both worlds? Are we really talking about the same thing? So you're doing extensive research into cross-border behavior? Because that's different from just sports culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u83	Well, as far as I'm concerned, the latter is covered by sports culture. Cross-border behaviour is part of a culture. Mispositions can arise because a culture is rotten, is not healthy or because there are no good checks-and-balances, no good mechanisms such as the four-eyed principle and everything that goes with it. As far as I am concerned, looking at sport culture is very broad and includes the story of cross-border behaviour. That in the first place. Secondly. I can successfully walk past the points I would otherwise name separately. As I said, I want to start a wide-ranging investigation into sport, into what sport culture is like. At the shortest possible time, I will give the order to do so. I imagine that is not exactly the same research as Verinorm did on gymnastics, because that goes very deeply into the depths, into abuses by sector. I believe we have 77 unions or something in sport, so that would be a very comprehensive study. However, we can look at the important sports sectors as to how culture is and whether there is a cross-border behavior and what you can then do about it. I can imagine that, in the specific case of dance sport, I believe that dance sport has been mentioned by all the spokesmen, and in the light of Mrs Koumans' revelations, there is reason to add the magnifying glass. I am prepared to do so, but I would like to see how we can best shape that. I do not know if Mrs Van der Laan knows that, but at the moment there is some sort of MeToo research being done in the dance sport. The Culture Council is involved, including the Ministry of Education. We have also joined the Ministry of Education in the run-up to this debate. I would like to see how we can best organise the investigation, which the Chamber needs and which I believe everyone needs. I can imagine that in dance sport, in consultation with Education, with the Council for Culture, we are going to do a more in-depth study, and that we are looking more closely at sport culture in the other sports with that research I meant, where Verinorm is in charge, in all sports associations. Both of these investigations should be completed next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u84	Mrs Van der Laan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u85	Am I to understand that that is a commitment to go deep in dance sport?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u86	Yeah, where I do say that... Well, let me rephrase. I know there's movement. The Culture Council is now investigating MeToo movements in dance sport, and that can be made wider. I do not want three investigations to run side by side, all looking at the same thing, or just other aspects. I would like to see how we can do the most streamlined research on this. When it comes to dancing, I think it's gonna have to go deeper. As far as the wide-ranging research of Verinorm and others is concerned, it is more highly about sport culture. I imagine, if I have a little more focus on that after consultation with Education, that I will inform the Chamber about it in the course of this autumn. But in that sense a commitment... All the willingness to investigate the things that are needed, yes. Mr President, I should like to comment on the open questions that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u87	I'm just looking into what's actually the conclusion of the conversation we had here about what can be done for the present generation. And I would also like to give the Secretary of State one thing, namely that it is also difficult to compare them with other groups, because it is women who were in favour of the Netherlands. He himself mentioned it in his input: what we cheered for together. And that, on the other hand, when things go wrong, everyone looks away. So what is the conclusion, regardless of the concession, but also with all the costs for therapies they have? What can the Secretary of State actually do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u88	I won't repeat it entirely, but these are the first two tracks I named. That is the €5,000 paid by the unions, for which they pay tribute. And I think they're right to take their responsibilities there. What it takes to organize that and arrange access etc., VWS stands at the bar, the government. That also costs a lot of money, but that is what we are going to finance. This is based on ensuring that the €5,000, the qualification system, is regulated as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. That's the first lead. The second is care and assistance. I had a conversation with the gymnasts. They do have questions about that, do they: is that route via the UMCG the best; do we always have to go to Groningen, or is that otherwise to organize? I would like to say that we are organizing this as streamlined as possible so that they do not have to walk on their toes again to stay in the jargon for just a moment to get the help they need. The assistance needed goes through the route of the UMCG where very specific ggz assistance is concerned. We want to give them hands and feet. I also want to inform the Chamber, periodically, about how the flag hangs. That is specifically used for this group. In answer to the question "how is it going with its own risk?" et cetera, the story is simple: that goes as it is arranged in the Netherlands. And when the Chamber says, "That's gotta be different..." I think Mrs Westerveld has a point. Look, I also said that equations are always limp. People who have been victims of youth aid have not hung around their necks with medals that have been produced at the expense of a great deal of blood, sweat and tears, broken toes and so on. In that sense, the comparison is flawed. At the same time, however, I would also like to support this group, so I hope that it will be understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u89	Thank you. The Secretary of State continues his argument to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u90	Yes, just a few more questions, Mr. Chairman. I'm heading towards the end of my speech, you know. The question of compensation has been asked: how does it work, who arranges it? Well, as we speak we are in contact with NOC*NSF and the KNGU about how that arrangement should take shape. In the next few weeks, we're going to take steps in that direction. What criteria do you have to meet? Of course, we also take the recommendations from the Verinorm report, for example that you must have been in the national selection. Just objective standards. But what criteria exactly do you have to meet, that soon becomes clear. Low threshold is the starting point. A different starting point is to design the scheme as soon as possible. The aim is for us to be able to clarify at the end of this year how the scheme will be implemented and then to roll out very quickly and make it accessible to the victims. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of disciplinary law. Everyone has asked questions about this, about the relationship between disciplinary law and criminal law. Let me start by saying that I'm not a lawyer, but there's a grey area between those two. It is not the case that what is dealt with in disciplinary law should not be dealt with in criminal law. Disciplinary law is an important route to raise issues. If we are talking about child abuse, let me say in the direction of Mrs Westerveld, the question arises as to whether we should take the step towards criminal law. Within the ISR it is so arranged that if it finds ISR at least, so it must be that something must go to criminal law, they must report it to police or justice. That's how it's supposed to be. I would add that, because I share the critical remarks made by Members of Parliament. What's taking so long? The gymnasts are also maddened by the fact that all these disciplinary procedures in the ISR take so long. Can't it be a little more professional? I am trying to argue that as a government we want to invest in both: to make the ISR more professional and to increase its capacity, so that things can be done sooner and not people, after they have gone there with their painful story, have to wait a very long time before they finally have some clarity. Mr. Chairman. I will answer a question from Mr Heerema, but I see some movement, so perhaps I should stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u91	Maybe it's okay to start with the question of... is it about this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u92	It is about the previous point, so it is not about the answer that I am likely to receive with regard to the training of trainers. The issue of criminal law and disciplinary law is very difficult for my group. What I believe we all want to avoid in this Chamber is that there is a long process of disciplinary action, without a satisfactory outcome, after which, if necessary, the step to criminal law must be taken, which can create a problem with limitation periods and even with the possibility of continuing such a process as a victim. I now hear the Secretary of State say: "We want to invest in this. We want this to be clarified more quickly, especially in the grey area between disciplinary law and criminal law." I would like to see if, after one conversation, a victim reports to the ISR, it is clear whether there should be a disciplinary or criminal case. So we can arrange it as best we can for a victim at the front. Is that what the Secretary of State means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u93	That's part of the professionalization battle, but again, I'm not a lawyer. I don't know if you can test with one conversation whether something is criminal or disciplinary. I don't know. I wish I knew. Although... I don't know; it's super wrapped. My starting point is that if victims report... they will do so first at the hotline, at the Centre for Safe Sport. If this is to be passed on to disciplinary justice in sport, there must, of course, be clarity as soon as possible about whether to raise this issue in the sphere of criminal law or civil law, and not there. That must be the starting point. That is also the background to why we want to invest in professionalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u94	Mr Heerema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u95	Is the ISR or the Centre for Safe Sport the right place to do that? We must, of course, ensure that the threshold to report is low and that picking up what needs to be done can go as quickly as possible. So I'm just looking for: how do we do it as best we can?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u96	As soon as possible: everyone agrees with that, including the people in sport, but they also have their hands in their hair, because of insufficient capacity and lack of professionalism. That is the position of the ISR. I think Mrs Westerveld has said something about access to the hotline, the Safe Sport Centre. It expressed the explicit wish, in line with the recommendations of the report on Unequal Opportunities, that this should operate in a completely independent manner. As regards hotlines, as a government, we are looking at how the hotlines are organized in the Netherlands and what is the best route for people. You want to share a culture in which people can easily report without having to be afraid that their report will blow back in their faces like a boomerang. Think of repercussions from sport, or that things are rejected very easily, like: "Don't be silly. It's nothing and we're not gonna do anything with it. We're dismissing." Et cetera. If the wish is for it to be settled independently, then I would like to promise the Chamber that I will talk to NOC*NSF about this because of them, that hotline is "with the firm desire of the Chamber to arrange this independently." So it's not our hotline, but I want to use everything in my power to get NOC*NSF to organize it as independently as possible. Whether that means a completely different governance and a completely different organisational structure than now, I cannot anticipate that, but that could be the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u97	However, very briefly and quickly: at a time when a case does not belong in disciplinary law, but rather in public law, so that we can also see what happens in the case of a victim's report and we can also intervene as a government if necessary, then a quick selection is necessary. I hear the Secretary of State now say: together with NOC*NSF we will see how we can further shape the Centre for Safe Sport. I'm not quite reassured yet. How can we ensure that a case that belongs in criminal law is dealt with as soon as possible in that criminal law? There will be a number of issues that have been raised here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u98	There is nothing I can add to what I have already said. We are totally in line with ambition. I think that the government takes its responsibility by saying that we are investing in money to professionalise disciplinary justice in sport and to ensure that matters are dealt with more quickly. This faster handling also includes the disciplinary justice circuit, in the sense of: I keep it within disciplinary law but it has to be faster, so that athletes do not have to wait months, if not years, until there is a ruling. This also includes that you switch very quickly, in the sense of: this is really part of criminal law, go there. So I think we are totally in line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u99	Here again the question of what this means for the young women who have now called the bell. I have been following this dossier for a number of years and we have also asked a few questions about the ISR. They are now in that procedure which, however, is completely still. They have done their story, but the point is that it continues and that there remains uncertainty. Of course, that stays in their heads as well. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how we are going to ensure that they too are helped by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u100	The most obvious thing the government can do from its responsibility is to ensure that the ISR is more professional and equipped and has more people to deal with matters more quickly. I am trying to point out here that we are investing in both and that we are taking on our responsibilities in the financial sense as well. That is what we are contributing to. I do not think we can influence that further. This is the best we can do. If it's up to me, the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u102	I understand that answer, but at the same time it is unsatisfactory, because we also have to deal with the fact that trust is gone. If you do your story, then the interview report doesn't add up, you have to wait for months and there's uncertainty, also about the verdict, then my question is whether professionalization is enough. Should there be 1 million to the ISR or shouldn't you rather say: we're going to do it in a different way and we're going to make it truly an independent place that everyone trusts again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u103	I understood from Mrs Westerveld's first speech that she was looking in particular at the position of the Centre for Safe Sport and that she wanted to position it independently. Oh, Mrs Van der Laan said that, sorry. I thought Mrs Westerveld was certainly not disgusting with the idea of adopting the Verinorm opinion in that sense. To see if the ISR should get a different position that would make it faster or more independent: I really don't know. We invest in professionalisation, in faster procedures and in capacity. I think that's an optimal handout. I have just made a commitment on all the recommendations made in the report, which I will give every year from the cabinet a stand-by of where that leads. If next year it turns out that it's stuck and that it's really a worthless story... Yes, excuse the gymnasts, because politics is sometimes a matter of a lot of patience, but I'm doing my best to get this done as soon as possible. We also keep our finger on the pulse whether the ISR is the good vehicle or whether we have to go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u104	Also the ruling this weekend in appeal of disciplinary justice says: guilty, but fitting within the culture that was common at the time. That doesn't feel like justice and justice. The Secretary of State feels the same way, so I don't have to ask him that. But apart from the position, which, as far as I am concerned, should also be independent, I think it is important to also look at what these lead times and statements do, and what that material means for victims. Because if these kinds of judgments are the norm in disciplinary law, it doesn't feel like justice and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u105	On that first point, I do not want to have an opinion on legal rulings following an unexplained former President of the United States. The second point was: what does that do? I am less legally qualified than Mrs Kikken, but I can imagine that in our annual reports on how things are going, we are anonymized about how disciplinary proceedings are going and what consequences they are going to have. I don't know if that's possible, because maybe that can be traced back to people. But of course we have to keep our finger on the wrist: does this, for example, mean that trainers are suspended, or that associations are going to intervene, or otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mrs. Chicken, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u107	I think that's a good commitment. I can't judge whether that can be done completely anonymously. But let's find some form. It's gonna take some administrative burdens now, but it really puts a finger on the wrist. That is necessary to assess this, because otherwise it is gambling. I think this is necessary. And you don't have to be a lawyer to just feel with your heart...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u108	Exactly. Move it! Move it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u109	You just feel like this has to be better and different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u110	Sure. I can only endorse that. I mean, you've been through a lot of shit, and then you finally took the step to discipline and you think something's gonna roll, but then nothing rolls and that ball stays still. That's terrible. Mr. Chairman. I've got a few more cases. Mr Heerema asked about the educational environment in which trainers work. I think that's very well taken up by the sport. It is true that the qualification requirements imposed on trainers, coaches and other supervisors are one of the issues that the sector has identified as part of the discussions on professionalisation of the sector. It's already happening. Attention is paid to the educational environment. There are many coaches who have had separate training for this. But the pedagogic climate can certainly be improved. It is not yet the case that everyone who is a trainer is optimally trained in it. I can say that NOC*NSF is already working on developing the Sport Qualification Structure, along with the education professionals. That is precisely what investing in this educational environment is an important part of it. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question about the positive sport culture, which was also asked by Mr Heerema: integrity is not a specific gymnast problem, so should we not have a broader picture of the whole sector? I realize now that I see the question, that I've already answered it. We're going to start an investigation into the culture of the entire sports sector. I think I have answered the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u111	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mr. Heerema. No? Then we have come to the end of the first term of office of the Secretary of State. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. There is. I find a ten-minute suspension very long, but if we agree that we are actually in the Chamber in ten minutes, I suspend for ten minutes and then we move on to the second term of office. Then there is the possibility of asking a single question or tabling motions. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u112	The next item is the House's second term in the debate on abuses in gymnastics. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report "Incomparable lashes" reveals that children are isolated, manipulated and cried out, children need to continue training with injuries such as bone fractures and pain;]] [[considers that this is child abuse;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the boundaries between disciplinary and criminal justice so that it is clear who has what role;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the relevant authorities, such as the Safe Sport Centre, to examine how these matters will get to the right place as soon as possible, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new care pathway, in consultation with the UMC Groningen, is not appropriate for many gymnasts, because they have often found the right help themselves after years of searching;]] [[noting that much of this care is not or is not fully reimbursed;]] [[calls on the Government, with retroactive effect, to settle all healthcare costs incurred and incurred by this group of former athletes as a result of cross-border behaviour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the €5,000 is not enough to cover the additional cost of care;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the compensation granted by the De Winter Committee for victims of gymnastics and dancing, where the government had responsibility, is sufficient and whether it should not be extended to cover healthcare costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Laan and Mr Rudmer Heerema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-278]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kuiken and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-280]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kuiken and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u114	Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u115	Thank you. Go ahead and I will then give the floor to Mr Heerema. Go ahead. Finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u116	I would very much like to thank the gymnasts who sit there, Anouk, Petra, Stephanie and Danila, for their story, that they are here and also for their support here. It's just incredible that they're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u117	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u118	I filed for a ten-minute suspension because there was still quite a bit of a fuss about motions. No, "things" isn't the right word. We had to coordinate well to see if we could ensure that we could find sufficient support for a large number of motions. One of those outcomes was that GroenLinks and I agreed on the first motion. Then I'd like to be under it, too, and I'm not. So I'm thinking, here's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u119	I see Mrs Westerveld nods yes. She writes your name under the motion, and then it's gonna be okay. Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Laan of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. We have two motions. I'm not quite satisfied yet, so that's why. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in various investigations into unwanted behaviour within the sport, athletes rarely report to NOC*NSF's Safe Sport Centre;]] [[Whereas reporting unwanted behaviour to a sports association may involve conflicts of interest, for example due to reputational damage or because trainers or staff may be employed by the same association;]] [[noting that both the report "Incompetence Lovers" and NOC*NSF itself advocated an independent Centre for Safe Sport;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Safe Sport Centre becomes fully independent;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the tasks of this independent centre, including with regard to the Institute of Sports Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report "Incompetences" revealed that two thirds of former athletes had to deal with cross-border behaviour;]] [[Whereas this report has and will have a major impact on culture in gymnastics;]] [[noting that reports of cross-border behaviour within dance and other sports have also been made recently;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation of cross-border behaviour within sport, and with priority within dance sport, with a similar design to "Unequal Ladies," taking into account that a large proportion of dance athletes are not members of a union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Laan, Westerveld, Van Nispen, Kuik, Rudmer Heerema, Simons, Bikker, Inge van Dijk and Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-281]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Laan, Westerveld, Van Nispen, Kuik, Rudmer Heerema, Bikker, Simons, Inge van Dijk and Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u121	I'll start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that abuses in gymnastics have led to the study of "Unequal Legacies" and that the world of dance also involves cross-border behaviour;]] [[Considering that associations, sports federations and NOC*NSF have an important role to play in promoting safe and inclusive sport to eradicate abuses and cross-border behaviour, but that the sporting world is concerned that support in government policies, legislation and finances is needed;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in talks with associations, sports associations and NOC*NSF on roles and responsibilities related to fair and safe sport, to consider the contribution of the Government in the political and financial sense, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Westerveld, Kikken, Van der Laan and Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u122	Mr. Chairman. I really think it's an expensive duty to see what we can do now. Hence my interruption about the cost of care and the co-signing of the Westerveld motion and others. The same goes for the world of dance, because research is about to come, but what can we do now? Let us also look, for example, at the recommendations made in the study Uneven Legacies. Are there any recommendations that we can take over in the dance world because they apply? Think of the multi-eye principle, think of more attention in the training of dance teachers, but also think of free legal advice for victims. The question is really pressing. There are two unions, one under sport and one under culture. Suppose someone whose union is under culture happens and wants to report. Where can this person go, at which independent hotline? Do they have to go to the Centre for Safe Sports, while the dance union is actually covered by culture? I would have liked to have answered that question. And finally, stay in touch with the people who are unfortunately experienced experts about what concerns them and what remains to be done for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u123	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mr President, thank you and, above all, thank you to the Secretary of State for all the answers in the first term. It will only happen to you that you haven't had this Sport portfolio for so long and you should be the first to have this debate for us. With a committee that I think works well together in the field of sport, picks up a lot of things together and in which the distinction coalition/opposition plays very often across each other. That's very nice, especially on a subject like this. I do not have any motions, because I believe that the answer given by the Secretary of State has been very clear and clear. I trust that the commitment he has indicated to the Centre for Safe Sport will be well established in terms of the difference between criminal law and disciplinary law, and in terms of the commitment of trainers to training and ensuring that it is better guaranteed for the future. I also understand the difficulty that, in relation to care and to what we can do now for the gymnasts of that time, in this situation at the moment it listens very closely to what we can do, what we cannot do and how best to do it. The Secretary of State has been very open and very clear about this. I hope we can find as much space there as we can. That's what I'd like to give the Secretary of State. I will not make any motions; I do not think that is necessary. I would like to thank everyone for taking part in this debate, including the gymnasts in the gallery. Thank you for coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u125	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u126	Mr. Chairman. Looking away, making small, deafening, ignoring and not recognizing. What that does to you as a victim is that you actually become a victim for the second time: the first time of the abuse and the abuse itself and the second time because you don't get the recognition you need and deserve. Mr. Chairman. This debate cannot do justice to that, but I do hope that a start will be made to give part of that recognition, that a start will be made to help prevent future victims, and that, where closed cultures occur, we have started here to open them up, to prevent such situations from occurring because of that secrecy and dependence. Mr. Chairman. There's still a lot to be done. That is also the reason why you find my name almost under all motions. I'm not gonna repeat that. There is one more point I really want to make, namely that it is so important that we really look at this €5,000. Not because money solves everything, but if you are constantly confronted today with care or disability costs associated with abuse and abuse from the past, then you are reminded of the suffering every time, and doubly: because you feel it in your wallet and because you are sick of it. That's injustice that we should want to knit straight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u128	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I have two more questions that I believe have remained. They are, I think, a bit along the lines of the motion that Mrs Westerveld has just filed on aftercare and tailor-made treatment. I asked how many people or how many former gymnasts the treatment that is now offered with the UMCG is suitable for and how many not. Can the Secretary of State comment on this in a more specific way? What can he offer the group of people for whom this is not appropriate? I also asked him about the arrangement of tailor-made treatment, because I saw somewhere in the pieces that it is finite. I didn't hear him go into it in the first place. Maybe he can give us some more details on whether it is or confirm that it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u129	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u130	Mr President, thank you. Two motions. Given the time, I'm starting fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that disciplinary law and the Institute of Sports Law have been awarded very mild, conditional punishment;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the Gymnastics Association and to promote the evaluation of disciplinary law and proposals to strengthen it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many athletes have suffered a great deal from abuse, that this has been recognised and that it should be avoided;]] [[noting that checking, manipulating, isolating and obsessive training regardless of physical and psychological condition and needs are also abusive;]] [[Whereas subjecting the lives of talented young athletes to the cost of delivering excellence is not conducive to a structure that clearly defines the limits that abuse is not acceptable under any circumstances;]] [[Whereas any young athlete may, from time to time, need an informed consideration of the extent to which top-level sport is still worthwhile, or that continuing may be regarded as abuse;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the sports federations, to design a hand-out to enable young athletes, together with their parents and/or caregivers, to consider, on a regular basis, whether continuing with top-level sport is worthwhile, or whether stopping in good time prevents a situation of abuse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-284]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u131	The next item is the debate on abuses in gymnastics. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to give his appreciation of the motions tabled and to answer one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u132	Mr. Chairman. If I have seen correctly, eight motions have been tabled and three questions put. I'll go into that in that order. The first motion is that in part No. 278, by Mrs Westerveld cum suis. The motion has a lot of signatories. It deals with boundaries between disciplinary and criminal law. I am happy to give the motion the appreciation judgment Chamber, but it will not surprise you that I say that this is primarily on the sign of JenV. So I have to go over that with Justice and Security. But if this motion is adopted, we will come back to the question of how we are going to give it hands and feet. The motion gets judgment Chamber. The motions on pieces No. 279 and 280 are both cases in which we've had a lot of interruptions. I said what I said. In that light, I'd like to dissuade them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u133	The motions on pieces No. 279 and 280 are both dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u134	The motions on pieces No. Indeed, 279 and 280 are both dissuaded. The motion in part No. 281 I'd like to give as an appreciation judgment chamber. I repeat what I said in the first term: I would like to discuss it with NOC*NSF, because it is their center. But I get the wish, and I think they're watching too. By the way, they have already indicated that they want to take a serious look at this, so I am confident that we will get out together. So I'm giving the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 282 by Mrs Van der Laan cum suis I also give judgment Chamber. I am talking to the partners, and I am also referring to what I said about this in this debate, so that it needs to be explained in that context. So judge Chamber for the motion in part No. 282. The motion in part No. As far as I am concerned, 283 of Mr Van Nispen's cum suis receives a ruling from the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 284 by Mrs Pouw-Verweij and Mr Omtzigt. I would like to say a few words about the operative part towards Mrs Pouw-Verweij. In the operative part is only the gymnastics union. I do not think Mrs Pouw-Verweij would mind at all if we turned that into the whole sport sector, because it is not something that only affects the gymnastics sector. If that is acceptable to her, then the appreciation judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u135	Can I then ask Mrs Pouw-Verweij to amend and retable the motion, because then we have the right text? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u136	Finally, the motion in part No. 285, also by Mrs Pouw-Verweij. His name is not written under it, but I believe that this motion was also tabled on behalf of Mr Omtzigt. I hear you're not. I need to stay sharp for a while. That hand-out is a sympathetic idea; the motion is given, as far as I am concerned, Chamber judgment. This is in line with what I'm already doing; I'm already talking. But the hand-out can be very helpful. This is a good suggestion, so the motion gets judgment Chamber. There are three more questions. The first is from Mr Van Nispen. You know that there are abuses in the dance sport, so shouldn't you also use Verinorm's recommendations there? I find this difficult, because we don't yet have an exact picture of what's wrong. You can feel on your clogs that there are abuses and that there must be intervention. The questions raised by Mr Van Nispen are quite obvious. Who do you have to report to when you're mostly involved in culture? I think we have a legislative meeting on Sport at the beginning of December. I would like to return in writing to the question of how we can deal with this, because apparently the question is very legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u137	I'd love to. Thank you for this commitment. So it is a question of where someone can go if there is a failure. Is that the Centre for Safe Sport, even if your dance union is not covered by NOC*NSF at all? But it is also a question of what obvious things we can do now. I would not say 'just to be safe', because that is of course very easy. But what can we do now when it comes to the multi-eye principle? What can we do for people in the sphere of free legal assistance? I would very much appreciate it if the Secretary of State would look very seriously at such matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u138	Yes. I shall go into that in the written reply. I get the point very well. If you already know that improvements are possible, why wait? After all, you know that there is a similar group of people suffering there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u139	If I may, I would like to ask one more question about the motion in part No. 285 in relation to the opinion I have to give to my group. I understand that the hand-out can be supportive of the choice to proceed responsibly. It has to be effective. There is an indication possibility for young top athletes. NOC*NSF ensures this in consultation with sports associations. That goes through top sports talent schools and CTO, among other things. Can the Secretary of State make that part of the hand-out? Can we use it in a way where it is done through such organisations, organisations that already have structure and are structured? I do not see it if we are going to have this kind of conversation with all kinds of individual sports associations and so on, because that is 23 000.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u140	23 000... I would like to say that I associate Mr Heerema's suggestion with the design of the hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u141	I have a question about my motion in part No. 279, in which we ask if the government should not even examine whether it is enough €5,000. I thought the Secretary of State opened the debate because he said "unless the Chamber decides otherwise." Now we ask the Chamber to give a ruling on that and then the Secretary of State says "dissuade." Isn't it much more logical to say it's up to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u142	Yeah, but any motion, of course, it's up to the Chamber. We know who's in charge in this country. I dissuade her because I don't want to raise false expectations. Of course, the €5,000 we are now assuming has been well-founded and also with the knowledge that all costs can never be reimbursed. Because you will still have holes at €10,000 or €15,000. What I hate myself is that you're gonna raise expectations that you can't live up to. The €5,000 has been well-founded. But once again, when the Chamber says 'it must be examined and let's look at it more broadly', if there is a majority in Parliament, then the cabinet will of course start working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u143	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u144	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says it's been well-founded. You can differ very much about that. We have, of course, already had a little bit of that discussion in the debate on the De Winter Committee, so I will not go back to it. Here, of course, it has been said: look at an arrangement as it already exists for other sectors. So it is only a question of whether you can say that this has been done in a well-founded way. I hope that at least the Chamber will have followed this debate and will vote wisely later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u145	There are two further questions open, both from Mrs Maeijer, about care, aftercare. How many gymnasts is the care appropriate for? We don't know. We do know that there are people who say that the UMCG trajectory is not Columbus' egg for them. I imagine that, if we can anonymize that, too, we'll be able to visualize it in the monitoring. We must not only follow that trail, but also, of course, talk to the gymnasts concerned in the meantime to see if they can get appropriate assistance. That is the first point. Then the second. I thought I said it in a subtlety in my first term, but the arrangement is not finite. We can continue to appeal to them. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u146	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on abuses in gymnastics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u147	We are going to vote on the motions tabled after the autumn recess on Tuesday 26 October. I thank the Secretary of State, I thank the Members of Parliament, I thank the people in the public gallery and, of course, I thank the guests we were allowed to receive here today. I'm so glad you guys could make it. I also thank the viewers at home. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. and then start the debate on the non-indexation of the basic child benefit, a very different subject.
