ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35874, Amendment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 to regulate the requirement for the adoption by law of a royal decree extending the provisions of Article VIII, paragraph 3, of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, as well as the debate on the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber does not have the right of initiative. However, the legislative proposal on the extension procedures Temporary law measures covid-19, which is before us today, is based on initiatives from this Chamber. On 27 October 2020, on the occasion of the examination of the temporary law in this house, the Janssen et al. In the light of the fact that the temporary law allows for fundamental rights-limiting measures, the States-General must have decisive control over their extension and the government has been asked to make it possible to do so in the shortest possible time. At first, the government did not do so heartily. It was screened with contradictory sounds from both chambers, which should then first be agreed, and it was said that we could nevertheless call on the government by motion not to extend the law or parts of it. Finally, on 19 February 2021, the government sent a letter to the First Chamber containing an overview of the modalities on which, according to the government, the decisive control could be shaped. At that time, the government again indicated that judgement by motion was a preferred variant. From this Chamber it was made clear in the debate on 23 February that making a ruling through a motion is not a determining control. In order to get out of the impasse, the De Boer c.s. motion was adopted. the preference for the variant of delegation under the requirement of approval by law, with the request to the government to discuss this variant with the Lower House in its new composition. This motion was adopted on 2 March. The government has carried out the motion and made known the position of the First Chamber to what was "the other side" at the time, I understand where it was adopted for notification. Ensuring lasting democratic control over the legal basis for the restriction of fundamental rights was clearly less high on the agenda of the House of Representatives than assessing the current situation and initiating and launching the measures. One could say that this is in line with the division of roles between the two chambers, where the emphasis is on the topicality and control of the government when it comes to taking concrete measures. For a proper guarantee of the democratic rule of law, as long as the Lower House fails to do so, we are dependent on this Chamber. I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the government has not failed to do so, but has taken over the initiative of the First Chamber and submitted the present legislative proposal. The proposed regulation is in line with the De Boer c.s. motion. This is a highly preferred variant, and my group can therefore wholeheartedly support it. The question is, of course, whether and how many times we can still use our new powers. Will the Twm be extended in September? And if that's the case, given recent developments, it doesn't seem like it's gonna be the last time? And is he still worth it, this law? On that last point, we say yes. This regulation is not only important for this temporary law, but it also sets the standard for any future temporary laws restricting the fundamental rights of citizens, the standard so clearly set out in the Janssen et al motion.: If temporary laws restrict the fundamental rights of citizens, the States-General must have decisive control over their renewal. Does the government now subscribe to this standard? And can it promise that future legislation will be designed according to this standard? And how is she going to secure this? Mr. Chairman. I now come to the second part of this debate. We are always asking the government to look ahead too, to the next phase of the pandemic and even further forward, to make our society and our legislation more robust in the event of new pandemics or other disasters in the future. Because it's not the question whether that's going to happen, it's just when. And yes, we understand that this minister is busy fighting the crisis that we have now and which we have had in full since last week, but the difference between a crisis manager and a minister or a government is that not only is there to respond to what is happening now, but that, if it is possible at the same time and otherwise very soon afterwards, there is to be a look ahead. What went well? What went wrong? How do we ensure that we are better prepared in the future and not make the same mistakes again? I will come back to self-reflection in recent days, but also for the longer term, evaluating, reflecting and learning ability are crucial, both for dealing with COVID-19 and endemic diseases, and for providing better care and society with pandemics and having legislation and regulations that can be used in crisis situations after approval by the State General. My group's written questions for this debate focused on this self-reflection and look forward to it. In the written reply, the government makes clear which investigations have been carried out, are ongoing and are still being deported. Thank you for that. It would be nice to receive that in a schematic overview. Can the Minister send us that in the summer? We also note that the evaluations mentioned are limited to the legal instruments in crisis situations. Did this work? Are there elements that need to be laid down in permanent emergency legislation that can be brought to life if necessary? Obviously again with legal guarantees, such as advice from the Council of State and involvement of parliament. Or is it better to choose to drop the entire content of the Twm and, in the event of a new crisis, re-establish a completely new temporary law? Are these kinds of questions also the subject of evaluation and reflection? Mr. Chairman. We cannot ignore the recent developments in this debate: the exponential increase in contamination and the reversal of relaxation. Wednesday will be debated in the House of Representatives. We therefore fit, from our different roles, modesty. But we, too, adopted the test law here just a few weeks ago, which regulated the testing for access to situations where the 1.5 meter distance could not be guaranteed. My group, too, voted in favour of this law after the necessary hesitations. So we too will have to look in the mirror with the government. What went wrong? The rules aren't right? Didn't we ask for enforcement and feasibility? Have we been too satisfied with the reassuring answers? Or did the government make mistakes and miscalculations in the implementation, by using the measures too quickly, by not using a 24-hour time limit for the required test, as the OMT had advised, but 40 hours, by giving access immediately after vaccination and saying that everyone can start dancing directly with Janssen, although it is known that it will take at least two weeks to protect a vaccine, and by not taking into account catching up behavior? Last Friday, it seemed as if the government was taking all the blame out of itself: it was young people who were completely out of control. I notice that they did what they were allowed to do. Or was it the delta variant that is extra contagious and ensures exponential growth? We knew that, didn't we? Then why be surprised when it presents itself? But it wasn't the government's fault. Today, the most responsible ministers have said sorry, I understand, although it is not entirely clear what it is for. Just for the press conference and the miscalculation of the image that it would bring? Or for the policy that has been pursued in recent weeks? This afternoon, journalist Kustaw Bessems apologized on Twitter as follows. "Sorry, we thought we'd get away with this by continuing to deny our own role and pointing to the OMT, the catering industry and the young people. It's an error in judgment. We now find that we can limit the political damage most with the appearance of humility." I sincerely hope it's not so cynical, but I'm not comfortable with it. I am therefore asking the Minister for a serious answer to the question I have just asked about exactly what went wrong. Finally. On June 1st, the Minister wrote to us a letter about the planned regulations and their planning. Can the Minister say whether the content of that letter is standing in the light of the increased contamination and the reversed relaxations? If not, what are the changes to the proposed regulation and/or planning? We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u5	I recognize a lot of what Mrs De Boer has just said about the out of control infections. But now it is true that this test law, which has already cost 700 million or something like that, has been dealt with here on 25 May and that thanks to the GroenLinks group, it has been brought to a close in this First Chamber. Does Mrs. De Boer, looking back, regret that vote for that test law? Because that law, as it turns out, did not work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u6	If you have listened carefully, you know that we have asked ourselves that question. Before we can finally answer them with a yes or no, I need the Minister's answers on exactly what went wrong. Was that in the regleging or was that in the too fast execution and the not good execution? In any case, I can say that the persistence as shown in practice did not go as we expected on the basis of the commitments made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u7	I note that during the debate on the test law many groups, including ours, also expressed methodological objections, including Mr Van der Voort, I can remember. But thanks to GroenLinks, this law has come into being and we are now in this trouble. I'd like to remind you of that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u8	I think this applies to all the groups that voted in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. It remains relevant to report that I am professionally involved with epidemiological and organisational issues in care, as well as with the direct care of ICU patients, including those included with COVID-19. Nevertheless, I am speaking on behalf of my entire group and we do not see any conflicts of interest. A little less than two months ago, we debated the corona legislation, both the measures themselves and the decisive control of the Upper House. I will also include both aspects in my contribution. First of all, the determining control of the First Chamber over the extension of the Temporary Law measures. The Janssen motion of October 2020 was introduced in a period of hectic and uncertainties. The D66 Group did not support this motion because of the crisis situation and the assessment that parliamentary control was at that time in balance with the dynamics of that situation. At the end of February, the De Boer motion in this Chamber was adopted in a situation that was still very threatening but in which the behaviour of the virus and its spread were much clearer. The route proposed by the De Boer motion to resolve the difference of opinion between the two Chambers was so appropriate that my group did support that motion. The De Boer motion has paved the way for the legislative proposal that is the subject of this debate. The D66 Group's assessment is that there is easy misinterpretation of the scope of the present legislative proposal. That is why I would like clarification from the Minister on the following points. We believe that this bill is not about the measures themselves but about the extension sec. We therefore ask the Minister to confirm that we interpret that correctly. Can the Minister also explain whether and how the Lower House and perhaps also the Upper House control, whether decisive or not, the measures themselves and the ministerial arrangements? Is our analysis correct that that power for the House of Representatives is retained? A concern of the D66 Group is the deadline for the adoption of the law in the Lower House and thereafter in the Upper Chamber. A round of written questions can soon take several weeks to months. This may lead to the processing of an approval law as mustard after the meal. Our group would have been helped by the commitment that answers to written questions on the approval law will be dealt with within a few days for both Second and First Chambers. In the last year many people in the country and in the media have expressed the fear that the government could introduce disproportionate measures that even violate fundamental rights. We didn't have that fear ourselves. However, there seems to be a different situation now, a situation with more clarity and scientific insight into the behaviour of the virus. This calls for a transition to the replacement of this temporary law with permanent legislation. I am aware that our former colleague from the Senate, Mrs Bikker, has also asked in the Lower House for an adaptation of the Wpg, so that the Wpg without Twm becomes suitable to fight a pandemic. In the previous debate, D66 also insisted on this. I repeat, that wish still exists. Our question is therefore whether the Minister can promise that steps will be taken this year. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on two motions for resolutions, Mr van der Voort, which were discussed in the previous debate and then adopted by this Chamber. The motion on the health plan remains up-to-date, given the reports in the media and the professional literature on catching-up care, persistently high absenteeism, stuck collective bargaining and large numbers of patients with so-called long covid. Dutch research concludes that one in five ic nurses is subject to PTSS. The health care plan is extra topical as an increase in hospitalisations in the fourth wave is imminent and can interfere with it. In the worst case scenario, according to the OMT report d.d. July 5th, 900 covid patients on the ic's. The sharp increase in the number of infections has exceeded all predictions in recent weeks. This coincides with or is partly caused by the advance of the delta variant. It is therefore possible that other predictions may also be higher, because the models have been built with experiences of previous variants. The OMT report predicts that up to 900 ic recordings in winter, but if the delta variant defies predictions, it could be September in our view. The nurses on the ICU I myself run have now gone on a massive vacation to take their well-deserved rest. But what if there are new COVID-19 recordings before they get back in September? How are we going to answer this question with so-called catch-up care and regular care? What preparations has the cabinet made or will the cabinet take this summer to deal with the question of care, both covid and non-covid, and not be surprised as last year? Mr. Chairman. We wonder whether the instruments available within the Twm toolbox to reduce contamination are sufficient. We believe that there is one element missing in this, namely the understanding of the role of vaccinations in the question of care. For this purpose, it is important to have an overview of the vaccination status of included patients. On 8 July the Kuzu motion was adopted in the House of Representatives. We stress that the D66 Group is in favour of a central registration of the vaccination status of hospitalized patients, so that this can be used as steering information alongside other data. I'd like the government's opinion on this. Returning to the care plan requested in the motion, the government considers this sufficiently addressed with the letter of Minister Van Ark of 26 May last. On the one hand, the D66 Group can imagine that the Minister's wishes set out in them are to be seen as a plan, but in our view this is certainly not sufficient in view of current developments to actually solve the problems. We therefore wonder whether the Minister can now, almost two months after the publication of the letter, intervene in the elaboration of the intentions described in that letter and the results achieved in the field. In the meantime, we have seen the motion as not being satisfied. The other motion adopted concerns the setting of a lower limit in the prevalence and making it public, a limit in the number of infectious persons under which large-scale testing does not bring added value and can even be considered disproportionate. The Minister calls this the on/off button. From the letter of 29 June, in which the Minister announces a delay in answering questions, he seems to suggest that this limit coincides with the time when the OMT advises to drop the one and a half meter measure. To some extent we see a logic in this, but questions remain unanswered. For example, the epidemiological weighting of good and fault-positive tests has not yet been provided. If fewer people carry corona, the number of error positives does not change percentage of the number of subjects tested, but the number of error positives increases compared to the total number of positives tested. In the extreme case that corona has disappeared from our society, all positive tests are false positive. In the letter of 16 July last, the Minister stated that 55% of the positive self-tests at the GGD could be confirmed. So the other 45% are wrong positive. In the case of a higher number of infected persons, this percentage will decrease. Does the Minister confirm this conclusion and what does that mean for his policy? That is why I also ask for more epidemiological justification of the choices made by the OMT and the RIVM when choosing to scale up or scale up measures. So far it has not been possible, while the Ministry and RIVM should be able to give it of course. The importance of clarity about the time when the switch is turned on or off, referred to by us as "the lower limit," has become apparent in recent days. The contagion rates increased, but it was uncertain for everyone when this would lead to measures. Suppose that switch or that lower limit would have been known, that uncertainty would have been addressed in advance and the expectations would have been managed, which in turn would have led to more understanding and less criticism of the policy. That is why we are curious whether the written questions can be answered by the Minister and how and when the motion will be carried out. Mr. Chairman. We are, of course, also looking back a bit today, although we expect a comprehensive evaluation when the pandemic is really over. Looking back, we would like to emphasise that our group finds it impressive and worrying that a crisis like these many problems that already existed to some extent magnifies. This is true locally, I can see that in my hospital, but that also applies in society as a whole. The most worrying development is the inequality and inequality of opportunity between citizens in the Netherlands, but also in the world. These differences have been further magnified. Oxfam Novib reports in a report in January of this year that the rich have come out of the crisis better than the poor, men better than women and the socially strong better than the socially weak. The odds of equality have diminished. We hope that this will be an important focus of the next cabinet, whether or not under the heading of post-corona restoration. In this context, we are asking the Minister, in view of its inequality, about the state of affairs concerning the distribution of vaccines around the world. Finally, Mr President, the implementation of the Corona policy in the past year. We continue to express the wish to increase our relations with EU countries. It is strange to us that the opinions of agencies such as the EEA and the ECDC are less appreciated than our national advisory bodies, such as the Medicines Evaluation Board, the RIVM and the Health Council. The result is a patchwork of choices and policies within the EU. These include vaccination strategies, access and testing policies and measures. Is the Minister keen to work actively on a pan-EU policy on these issues? What will be the relationship between opinions from European versus national authorities in the future? Will it continue to be used for European opinions to be re-examined by national authorities? If this is the reason why the opinions are drawn up at regional level, then the policy should focus on the weighting of these EU opinions in the regional context. In principle, however, the basis of the European opinions should no longer be called into question. However, if the reliability of the opinions is a matter of urgency, the improvement of them must be taken into account. I would like a reflection and also a future perspective from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. We have had an exciting sixteen months, in which many of the rulers, the Dutch and the care has been asked. And it's not over yet. The cabinet has sometimes sailed carefully and sometimes very sharply to the wind. The Minister may recall that, in an earlier debate, we used the metaphor of a trap of measures, in which we swam deeper and deeper. The escape grape is the vaccination strategy and it works, but we swam a little early through that rustle, because perhaps the delta variant increased the size of that rustle, but also because the scientific basis for testing for access proved to be too narrow for the extrapolation to the way in which the government applied tests for access. How does the Minister view the design and value of the scientific research that forms the basis for the testing-for-access policy? Mr. Chairman. The present bill assesses the D66 Group as we are used to looking at legislative proposals, but it is a special one, because it also concerns parliamentary relations and it will go down in history as an example of how the two Chambers and the government relate to each other. This concerns extremely important matters, namely measures concerning our freedom. The opinion of our group on this bill has not yet been established. We therefore hope for a thorough answer to our questions, so that the answers will help us to take a position on them tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u12	A brief question to Mr Van der Voort. Is Mr Van der Voort of the opinion that this bill should not have been there at all, as I heard in the legislative consultation in the Lower House, because the First Chamber has gone far beyond its remit, because it would not fit in with the role of the First Chamber to ask the government to bring about decisive control for both Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u13	I believe that we, as the First Chamber, have had a discussion with the Cabinet about our role and its interpretation and have discussed it in good consultation, as I recall from all the previous debates. In the end, that's where this bill came out. That's how I see it. That is a somewhat more neutral view of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u14	That means that the legislative proposal as it stands today, following the debates we have had, is not, in your opinion, a right of initiative which the First Chamber would have appropriated itself, whereas it is not ours to do with state law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u15	In fact, it is a bill made and submitted by the government. That's how we judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mrs Prins has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today, here in this Chamber, we are once again discussing the COVID-19 virus and its consequences for our society, and therefore also the Temporary Law measures covid-19. This law as an extension of the Public Health Act was approved when the behaviour of the virus was still unknown, many vulnerable people, especially many elderly, were severely ill and many also died, hospitals and ICU departments were overcrowded and vaccines were not yet available. The CDA Group therefore understood that the parliamentary involvement of the First Chamber in this crisis situation was limited. This did not apply to the majority of this Chamber, which supported the Janssen motion and the De Boer motion with the call for also for the First Chamber to decide. This has led to this legislative proposal whereby the two Chambers, following the royal decree to extend or amend this law, can immediately approve or reject this law in a follow-up procedure. This could mean that on a Monday the various measures covered by this law are still in force, but they are tuned by this Chamber on Tuesday and that all measures will then expire on Wednesday or Thursday, while the Cabinet, presumably on the basis of expert opinions such as the OMT, considers that the situation in our country still requires measures to combat the virus. The CDA Group wonders how the cabinet can assume its administrative responsibility in the event of a difference of opinion between the experts and the parliament. It is no longer a question of one measure, for example, whether or not to use tests for access, but of all measures. I'd like an explanation from the cabinet on this. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group appreciates that the Cabinet's commitment to take seriously the motions of the First Chamber in this matter, as also expressed in modality nine of the Minister's letter on the possibilities of filling in the motion on determining control, is actually respected. At the same time, she would have liked to have received another bill, as already stated in our contribution of 25 May last. Our group believes that the crisis is still continuing, but that the crisis situation is over. Reason why instead of this Temporary Law measures covid-19 we need to go to regular laws and regulations, for example with an extension of the Public Health Act. We have to come up with a law that provides frameworks for dealing with infectious viruses, such as the corona virus now, but in the future, so is the expectation of many experts, including other highly contagious and dangerous viruses. In this way, Parliament's involvement in both Chambers must be fully restored. We are thinking of laws and regulations that serve as a kind of framework law. The parameters could be, in line with the current temporary legislation: an acceptable loadability of care • hospitals should still be able to provide good care • and the protection of vulnerable people in our society. Over the last year and a half we have had experience of the effectiveness of the various measures. The vaccination is more than good on steam, for which compliments to the Minister and to the many others who are working on it. Based on scenarios it is now also possible to make a good estimate of this virus and of possibly other unknown future viruses. We have therefore read with approval in the Minister's so-called letter of action of 6 July that two scenarios are being worked on over the next two months: one with manageable virus revivals and one with a severe virus revival. In conjunction with the learning points of the past period, now is the time to set up our society and therefore our regular laws and regulations in such a way that we manage the crisis of a virus properly. The danger of infectious viruses persists and then you have to act proactively on it. This requires legislation and regulation. Mr. Chairman. In May we received a commitment from the Minister on a vision for the future for a society with viruses. During the debate on 7 July in the Lower House, the Minister promised ChristenUnie and CDA to present an evaluation and a sketch of the accompanying legislative instruments before Christmas, as he would like to wait for several evaluations. Of course, we have an understanding for careful action, for lessons from the many evaluations. Only, the virus doesn't wait for that. In fact, this urgency proposal perpetuates the temporality of these so relevant laws and regulations, in breach of the various fundamental rights. I am speaking on behalf of the Christian Union and I would therefore like to ask the Minister for a clear commitment to present a regular legislative proposal before a possible extension of the temporary law on 1 December, in which the government can take the appropriate measures within the framework of this new law in the event of outbreaks of viruses leading to unacceptable taxability of care and out of proportion to vulnerable people. We would like to consider the term 'vulnerable people'. At the beginning of this crisis, this was particularly true for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u18	I fully agree with you, because we have asked questions about this together earlier in the question on regular legislation. Can Mrs Prins also tell us how she sees Parliament's involvement in this? Are we talking about greater involvement than we are now in launching and launching the measures? I assume so, but perhaps it would be good to make that a little more explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u19	Right. You have just spoken in advance, as both Chambers, both of which have their own parliamentary space to discuss that law, which stands as a framework law. Based on a number of parameters, you know what the activities might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u20	Yeah, but that does scream... In fact, that is the structure that the Twm also knows, because the law is the framework law. If it becomes a permanent law, I am very concerned that the government, without parliamentary involvement, can turn those measures on and off. My wish would also be for Parliament to be involved, at least initially, in the process of turning it on and off. Is that what you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u21	No, as far as we're concerned, it's like...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u22	Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u23	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, as in the Public Health Act, there is space because you have already discussed with each other in advance on the basis of the parameters what might be needed if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u24	I'm afraid we're running a little far apart here. Anyway, with you, I look forward to proposals. Then we can talk about it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u25	I'm just like that. I'm going back to the term "vulnerable people." At the beginning of this crisis, this was particularly true for the elderly. In recent times, we have seen that the impact of the coronavirus and the necessary measures actually means that more people are subject to the term "vulnerable." We are thinking of people who are still waiting for an operation as a result of the disappearance of regular care, but also of children and young people and entrepreneurs who are no longer able to exercise their business, and who are therefore not physically but psychologically vulnerable, very vulnerable. Our plea is to give more space to the term "vulnerable." We would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make a commitment here. In this context, we would also like to support the question of the Christian Union which is coming up with a vision of the right balance between regular and covid care as a benchmark for taking measures in relation to the fight against the coronavirus. Mr. Chairman. Finally, of course, we must bear in mind the current exponential growth in the number of infections in recent days. This puts a damper on the joy of a summer with a growing number of vaccinees and thus fewer measures. We are aware that it is always easier to have an opinion afterwards on the lifting of the various measures. However, the CDA Group has some questions. What is the reason why the experiences of the field labs and the advice of the OMT have not been fully followed? I am thinking here of the emphasis on ventilation, testing for access of up to 20 hours in advance, especially given the behaviour of many young people to go from party to party, and better and independent control and enforcement of test certificates. What is the Minister going to do about the ease with which it has unfortunately proved that the test certificates can be tampered with? We are curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u27	I listened with interest to Mrs Prins' story about the fact that perhaps we should think about the Public Health Act and whether we should not have a solid framework in it, including for the future. But is it really a framework, say the toolbox as the minister says? You could also say that your proposal is provided for, if we put the temporary law that is now in place and chapter Va of the Public Health Act into the law in a structural way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u28	That might as well be a possibility. We are concerned that in future, as a country, as a society in our laws and regulations, we are prepared for such types of viruses and that we are not, I will not say in panic, but are forced at great speed to talk about them with all the risks of parliamentary involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u29	Is Mrs Prins then in agreement with our group and I also agree with GroenLinks that you could say the following? You got the toolbox. There's everything we have in stock. If panic breaks out, it is not necessary; the tool is then addressed. But what is the parliamentary involvement in addressing these tools? That is the essential question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u30	No. That is indeed the essential question, but you have discussed it in advance. That space is already in the law based on a number of benchmarks. That could be that the care can't take it anymore. That may be that too many vulnerable people are being affected. You could also choose other criteria. You could check that out. And based on that, you say, we can do that and that. I have sometimes compared it very unparliamentaryly with the law we have in the case of avian influenza, for example. This law has been laid down in advance, but everyone knows that once there is avian influenza, the whole region will be closed down and there will be no need for parliamentary discussion, because it has already been done. There has been a discussion and a commitment that you say: this space is there, as soon as it is needed, we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u31	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u32	Another explanatory question, Mr President. I get that. That space was created. That is the tool, but it is the government or the minister who is going to use the tool and not the parliament at the time. What does the CDA see as an instrument to ensure the involvement of the people's representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u33	Mrs. Prince, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u34	So I see this in front, just as well as the Public Health Act gives us room to do some things, except for infectious viruses. From that point of view, we believe that this should be complemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u35	I took the example of the avian plague for a moment. People aren't birds. This is about restricting people's fundamental rights. That requires a heavier test than fighting the avian influenza. That is also where our concern lies, and there is also the concern of the Council of State and the College of Human Rights. When it comes to restricting people's fundamental rights and freedoms, you are not there with a framework law that actually offers the government every opportunity to do so. Then you need real democratic control on at least getting the toolbox out of the closet. If we get a legislative proposal, I think that will also be one of the central points for discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u36	I have just indicated that it was a cautious comparison, because, of course, I am well aware that people's fundamental rights are quite different from the fundamental rights of some animals, although they are thought differently. But aside, I don't think that's for now. This is what we're talking about. The Public Health Act stands. There's no more discussion about that. Due to the outbreak of the virus we had to put additional articles to the Public Health Act. It is therefore our conviction that it is better to do so at the front, so that you can talk in peace about the possible violation of the fundamental rights of our people in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u37	We're not gonna agree, but well, the temporary law has, of course, become a temporary supplement to that Public Health Act for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u38	Yeah, out of necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In October 2020, as a PVV Group, we voted against the Temporary Law measures covid-19. This law is an unacceptable violation of our fundamental rights and freedoms. These are measures that often offer unproven protection against the corona epidemic, such as the mouth cap and curfew. At that time, the cabinet suggested that the law would only be of a temporary nature and could only be extended by three months if necessary. In the meantime, these quarterly extensions of the law for the cabinet have become a matter of course. With the now planned extension on 1 September, the Demissionary Cabinet would like to remove certain elements, but at the same time keep many measures dormant in order to re-introduce them at the discretion of the Cabinet. As it turns out, nothing is as permanent as temporary measures. For example, in the summer it can be relaxed and in the autumn the lockdowns can be proclaimed as a sort of Groundhog Day at a press conference. The population may, like mountain moths, be tucked away in a hole in hibernation. Restaurants and other entrepreneurs are once again underwhelmed. It is therefore in itself good that the two Chambers of the States-General should be given the possibility, with the legislative proposal before us today, of extending temporary legislative measures covid-19, to vote the extension with an approval law afterwards. It would be even better not to extend these temporary measures at all. The delegation, subject to the necessary approval by law, also has some difficulties. The approval law is only filed after the extension of the law has entered into force. In this way neither Chambers has any influence on the measures to be extended at the front. Since the required approval law only enters the follow-up procedure, the measures will remain in force or will enter into force before the Parliament has reached a final judgment. In addition, the article published in RegelMaat and annexed to the documents on such procedures stated that it is unclear whether the time limit for submitting the approval law is a time limit of order or a fatal period. The question is, therefore, what are the consequences of not meeting this deadline by the cabinet? Can the Minister clarify this? Another point is that, in the explanatory memorandum, the Minister makes a very compelling point that the rejection of the Act of Approval would mean that the temporary measures, and thus the legal basis for all measures, would completely lapse. This should not be used as a means of pressure towards Parliament, in the sense of: swallowing or suffocating. Parliament must resist this pressure itself and dare to choose not to extend this temporary law over and over again. It is remarkable that the legal basis is suddenly so important for the cabinet. Earlier, it had no message at all. Today, on 23 June last, Mr Grapperhaus revealed that he did not wish to enter into a discussion about the right legal basis when introducing the curfew. The curfew had to and would be there, as it turned out from pieces based on a Wob request. The Minister considered it sufficient to base the curfew on the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, the Wbbbg, while experts stressed that this law was intended for acute disasters and not for foreseeable developments. In fact, at the time of the present extension of the Twm, the cabinet states, inter alia, on page 55 of the stand-of-business letter, that the possible re-entry of a curfew can also be based on the Wbbbg. According to EenVandaag, the Minister refuses to disclose the advice of the national attorney on this subject, due to internal reflection. That is why I have the following question to the Minister, and with it to the cabinet: is he prepared to provide these documents? I make this request in the light of Article 68 of the Constitution. I'd like a response. Speaking of the legal basis, the Twm is specifically intended to combat COOVID-19 as an epidemic. In the present cabinet plans, including the stand-of-business letter of 18 June last, the cabinet indicates that we are entering a transitional phase from epidemic to endemia. In this state-of-the-art letter, the Minister also states on page 53: "The extension power of the government may be exercised only in so far as it is necessary (and proportionate) to combat the epidemic of covid-19 or its direct threat." Can the Minister indicate whether the Twm can be extended at all if there is no longer an epidemic but an endemic phase? Can the Minister also indicate how it is determined whether there is a formal epidemic? Is an epidemic threshold used for this and, if so, what? I'd like a response from the Minister. The documents now made available do not yet provide any clear and measurable indicators for the measures to be extended. The measures now being taken, such as closing the hotel and catering sector at 00.00 a.m. due to the increasing number of positive tests, are also unclear as to what the concrete indicators are. Previously, the Minister said that the number of hospitalisations would be leading, but that number is falling at the very moment, or is at least stable. The recent OMT opinions also indicate that no increase in the number of hospitalisations is expected in the short term. Can the Minister indicate how he is dealing with indicators in the measures and how he is currently implementing the Van Hattem motion adopted? I'd like a response. The proposed extension of the Twm, as a legal basis for the measures, also raises the question of why the Minister is simultaneously continuing the legislative process for the amendment of the Public Health Act in relation to the coronavirus. This bill lays down the status of infectious disease A for COVID-19 in the law and thus provides a legal basis for far-reaching measures. The Minister now seems to opt for a two-track legal policy by extending the Twm at the same time. Can the Minister explain why the bill is not withdrawn now that the Twm is provided as a legal basis? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. One more point about vaccinations. The starting point is clear: voluntary vaccination, which also does not involve indirect coercion. However, the indirect compulsion is increasingly evident. Minister De Jonge already said: it is either vaccination or getting sick. The forced testing measures also seem to create more and more indirect compulsion to vaccinate. For example, on 5 July last, the Algemeen Dagblad wrote: "Every week a test or even a shot? Pub audience feels put on the spot." The article outlines how the test obligation gnaws and that many do not like getting a cotton swab in the nose every week to be allowed to go: "It is and remains a choice of their own, as the cabinet always stresses in the discussion whether vaccination should be compulsory or not. But is that true if anyone who doesn't want the shot has to be tested time and time again to participate in ordinary life?" Some hospitality entrepreneurs are already calling for compulsory vaccination of young people. Can the Minister indicate how the elaboration of the always mandatory testing and roll-out of the test society with testing for access relates to the hard agreement that there should be no indirect coercion to vaccinees? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the debate on 25 May last, Minister De Jonge, on request, indicated that the transmission of vaccination data and everyone's privacy around the corona apps were well arranged and that this would not cause any problems for the required extended consent to the electronic patient file. However, on page 29 of the stand-of-business letter, the Minister states that there are indeed problems with obtaining vaccination data via CoronaCheck, because exchange via the National Switch Point, the LSP, has not been possible. Can the Minister explain how this observation relates to his reaction in the debate on 25 May? Finally, Mr President. The PVV Group wants to move away as quickly as possible from the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which disproportionately undermines our fundamental rights and freedoms and which therefore certainly should not be extended. In any event, the present legislative proposal for the renewal procedures allows both the Second and the First Chamber to abolish this emergency act in one go. Since it is important to be able to take that step, we will support this bill. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Van der Voort on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u42	I'm still thinking about what Mr. Van Hattem said about the indicators. If I have understood him correctly, his desire is to have indicators which will or will not give rise to measures. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u43	That's right, yes. That is the thrust of the motion that was adopted earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u44	Then I am a little confused, because in the motion tabled by D66, together with GroenLinks, we are asking for a lower limit, the on-off switch as the Minister says. Is that the same as the indicators you are asking for and, if so, how could you not have supported that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u45	That debate was done by my colleague Van Strien. He clearly explained that the motion was methodologically out of order. That's the first thing. Secondly, this motion was about testing policy and my motion was about all measures, both at central and decentralised level, and laying the foundations for indicators. That is of a totally different order and scope from the motion tabled by Mr van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u46	I would think that testing policy is one of the measures and that a lower limit could be seen as an indicator. I understand that we agree in principle on this, although you did not support the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u47	As I said, it is of a different order, but all measures are designed to provide an indicator. Let me get this straight. So far, Mr. Chairman, in this time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u48	Thank you. Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u49	Mr. Chairman. The whole of the Netherlands colors red. That would have been a great pleasure for my group in the elections to the House of Representatives on 17 March, but now we are bewilderingly looking at the staggering rate of corona contamination. This speed does not even appear to contain the models of the RIVM. As Mr De Boer said, the minister is going to this place again on Wednesday afternoon, in the Ridderzaal, in debate with the House of Representatives about corona. Then this will also be a crucial point, but I am going to ask the Minister to address a number of questions in this debate, because it is important to look ahead to the possible extension on 1 September. But let me begin by congratulating the ministers concerned for eventually choosing to submit their own legislative proposals to implement the wishes of this House. Those wishes are laid down in two motions, first the Janssen/Nicolai/Otten/Van Pareren/Van Rooijen/De Vries motion on the regulation of determining control for the States General on the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and then the De Boer/Janssen/Nicolai/Pouw-Verweij/Recourt/Van Rooijen motion, in which a preference was given to how the determining control should be regulated. Now the "cum suis" have also been mentioned for the Acts. I note that the bill was adopted by a large majority in the House of Representatives. With the exception of the VVD and D66, all parties voted in favour of this bill. This leads to satisfaction with the vote, but also to continued concern as to how it came about. I would like to consider this a little bit longer. The Minister stated in the introductory words of his first term in the legislative consultation in the Lower House that this is a legislative proposal that neither the Lower House nor the Cabinet had asked for. I don't see it that way. It is true that it has not been asked for in word, but it has been asked for in behavior. Both the Lower House and the Cabinet have, by their way of acting and acting, not only in the run-up to the legal treatment of the Twm in 2020 but also during that treatment and after that, ensured that a majority of the First Chamber did not feel heard and involved by the Cabinet. The cabinet did business with a part of the Lower House, prior to that debate. A deal was made on the right of veto for the House of Representatives on individual measures. Neither the Lower House nor the Cabinet had any regard for the position of the Upper Chamber. I would like to say to the Minister that if you think otherwise, please refer me to the passages in the first period of that debate which dealt with the position of the First Chamber in these far-reaching measures for the crisis that arose at that time. It was only briefly discussed in response to the amendments tabled which called for the attention of the whole parliament to be given to control and not only to the part that had regulated control for itself. "The cabinet is not for that" was the short answer of the minister in the Lower House. With that side-by-side reference to the position of the First Chamber in response to amendments, you really cannot maintain that the position of the First Chamber at the Twm was the subject of the debate at the time. I have said this again and again in previous debates, and I have said that in times of crisis you must pursue more and not less democracy; not more and not more consultation, but more democracy. That can also be done quickly; this Chamber shows that again and again. This means that you are pulling together as widely as possible and making a front against the crisis that we need to fight with each other. This also means that as a government you respect and act on your own role in both Chambers. Does the Minister, looking back, share this opinion? Mr. Chairman. After the motion-Janssen c.s. for decisive control in this Chamber, it remained silent for a long time on the part of the cabinet. The cabinet remained reactive. The provision of information to the First Chamber was not in order and the role of the First Chamber was not taken into account in the planning. I have already mentioned this in previous debates. The cabinet did business with the Lower House and had a blind spot for the position of the Upper Chamber. My impression is that the cabinet has now seen this, but the question is: Mrs De Boer asked that even if that understanding is maintained and will be further developed, for example in the proposals for the adaptation of the Wpg. Shouldn't we, for example, go to some kind of lex special for pandemics for control purposes, especially from Parliament? I have already pointed out in previous debates that both the Lower House and the Cabinet, as well as the ministries use administratively in word and writing "Parliament" and "Second Chamber" repeatedly as synonyms. I would once again like to draw attention to the purely naming of the roles of parliament, Lower House and First Chamber in words and writing. In the discussion about power and counterpower, the cabinet will also have to acknowledge that the Lower House and the Upper House are not opposites, but together one strong parliament. Looking in the mirror, that also means that both Chambers will need constant attention to each other's position. Mr. Chairman. Well, let's talk about actuality. The cabinet stepped on the brakes because it ran the virus. The question that arises immediately is how this could have happened in a short time. I spoke about this at the beginning of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u50	Mrs. De Bruijn of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u51	Mr President, before Mr Janssen discusses the topicality, I would like to talk to him about the legislative proposal. He opened his contribution saying that the whole of the Netherlands is red and by that he did not mean the result of the elections. In fact, in the legislative proposal as it stands, the determining control simply determines whether we adopt or reject the extension bill. There's no differentiation in that. It's really on or off. In other words, if one of the two Chambers does not agree to the extension decision, the entire Temporary Act will lapse. Don't you think that's too big a gun? A proposal has also been passed here today on the Extraordinary Law on Civil Authority, the three b-laws. There is also an approval by law, but then you vote away the provision and not the whole law. How do you view that? We have heard the previous speaker, who very much likes to use this instrument to actually vote the whole of Twm away. I would like to have a reflection on this from Mr Janssen. How does he see that? Isn't that a rude instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u52	This question was also raised by the VVD in the written round. It would be very silly to say that I agree with the Minister's response, but of course it is. You'd like to hear it from me. Yeah, that's gonna be a really long argument. I won't. But I think this is the right means, because it is not something like: we need to be extended, but we are not doing anything for three months, we are not talking to each other, we are not taking any responsibility and, when we cannot, we are not taking any responsibility and voting away all the measures. It is the stick behind the door to say that, in the case of a far-reaching restriction of fundamental rights, this also happens in the Wpg, but also now in the Twm, it is still in a special way ultimately up to Parliament. This has had to make these measures possible by bringing the law into force. Parliament, and not the cabinet, will eventually decide whether renewal can continue in the light of the circumstances of that moment. Because we passed this law together on 27 October 2020 and then there were very different circumstances than we have always had in successive extensions. A majority of this Chamber has declared that it is a Parliament's task. We think it is the power of parliament to say that this law can or cannot pass. Perhaps you will see it as a stick behind the door to ensure that the adaptation of the Wpg is now being made, as I have just said, for example through a lex specialise, in order to ensure that we properly regulate parliamentary involvement in major pandemic measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u53	That's not exactly the answer to my question. I get the trip to the Wpg. My question was whether Mr Janssen thinks that this is too crude an instrument, because if he does not agree, the whole law is in fact gone. This means that you can no longer take any action other than having to submit a new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u54	No, I do not think it is too crude, because it is not a matter of everything or nothing in preparation and in the run-up. Let me put it this way: there is a lot ahead of it. If we arrive at the moment when we say that it is really ready, but find that the cabinet only wants to allow this to continue, while we as Parliament, the Second or the First Chamber, feel that this cannot be done, then that is a decision that we are taking together. Then you must be able to make that decision yourself, with all the responsibility that comes with it. I don't remember a moment when we in the First Chamber didn't take our responsibilities to take action when it was necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u55	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u56	Mr. Chairman. The actuality, I had gotten to that. The question is how it could have happened: in a short space of time so runaway, all these infections, and why have the models apparently failed? I have already asked the Minister, in anticipation of the debate in the House of Representatives, to go into this too. And I'm just saying I'm not looking for guilty or apology; I'm just looking for answers to explain this. And Mrs De Boer also referred to it: the way in which young people were immediately identified as guilty has alienated me. Good-willed young people have taken advantage of the opportunities offered to them by the cabinet. But the system offered seems to have been mainly a paper reality in The Hague, far from reality; a false certainty based on non-realistic assumptions and models. The fact that the system was not watertight is a very cautious conclusion. The period of validity of access tests was extended by the Cabinet to 40 hours instead of the recommended 24 hours, and actually the OMT preferred 12 hours. Why did that happen, and on what grounds? And how reliable is it if you test for access and walk in within 15 minutes, get tested and have the results on your phone? An example from the practice that someone reported me: 5:44 p.m. walked in, 5:49 p.m. tested and the results at 6:00 p.m. What test will give such a reliable result within this time? And how can you find nothing on the website about the kind of tests they use with large providers, very large providers? That you can see if it is true that within these fifteen minutes all this is so arranged, what test have they used; can you find anything about it? It's missing. Isn't that completely undesirable? And I think the Chamber should also note that there has not been sufficient checks on access. This did not intercept fraudulently copied color codes. A whole group with the same initials and the same date of birth should stand out in access checks, right? The municipality had already indicated that it could not monitor the proper conduct of the access checks in advance. And why people can "dance with Janssen" from day 1 after vaccination, the minister is not the only one to be addressed, I'll just say "fine" when the vaccine starts to become effective after two weeks, and nobody understands that either. And even those two weeks are now being questioned. Why, for example, does France use four weeks as a limit before people vaccinated with Janssen are considered fully vaccinated? And have the experiences from the field labs been translated into the relaxations? And shouldn't those lessons from those field labs lead to a more differentiated response to the restrictions that have now been proclaimed? I'd like a response from the Minister. All this indicates, in the opinion of the SP Group, a certain degree of hubris and too much sailing on the most favourable course by the cabinet. The first question is therefore why the models have not been able to foresee this. Were these models above all a collection of hope, and not of fear? Surely there must have been scenarios that pointed in this direction? And I've used Loesje's spell in this context before: "Try to think of it as crazy." Has it been asked whether the models were realistic, took into account catch-up, holiday periods, graduation parties, party trips abroad, partying at home, partying in the park, in short: everything that would be done that had not been allowed for a long time? Has "Try to think of it as crazy" been the starting point in the preparations for the, as it seems now, hasty relaxations? And if there was sufficient counterpower against the optimism of the cabinet internally, so is my question. And I would like to say once again that anyone who has obeyed all the rules offered by the Cabinet in good faith is not to blame. But I don't have a good word left over for all those who only for their own pleasure and own gain, for a short time, have cheated with test certificates, vaccination certificates and access codes, whether in the Netherlands or abroad. There is now a lively trade in which you can buy forged QR codes for all popular holiday destinations. That is scandalous, that is criminal, and my question is what is being done about it. My group is very concerned about how the situation with infections has spread so quickly and so uncontrolledly. And I notice in my own environment, the client board of a nursing home, that there the unrest strikes again. Surely it is not the case that we have to start over, after all the hardships for residents, employees and family members? My question to the Minister is therefore: how does the cabinet intend to get this back under control? Or should we come to the conclusion that the spirit is definitely out of the bottle? Mr. Chairman. Finally, two sentences on the bill. The SP Group welcomes, as I argued earlier, for several reasons that we are here today discussing the legislative proposal on determining control for both the Lower House and the Upper House on the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. In our opinion, the bill is doing what should have been done a year ago. We will therefore also support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u57	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Karakus of the Labour Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u58	Mr. Chairman. On Tuesday 25 May, we spoke in this room about the second extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. In that debate we discussed the instruments provided by this temporary law, together with the possibility of using a corona access card and the introduction of the quarantine obligation for travellers from high-risk areas. A lot's happened since then. Vigilance and care remain important to ensure that we do not return the relaxations to increase the measures. Over the past week, that has been more than proven. Developments seemed to be moving in the right direction. Care gradually regained its scope to deal with the normal care tasks. Shopkeepers and restaurants could open their doors again. And above all, almost everyone who wants to be vaccinated against the coronavirus has now had the first shot. But let's not get overconfident with each other. My group wonders whether the pace of easing in June was not too high. Wasn't the Minister too excited about coming back to dance with Janssen or the vaccination certificate as the start of a beautiful summer, while experts already warned about the risks based on experience in the other countries? Fast relaxation has the risk that it creates high expectations among the inhabitants of our country. This will make it more difficult to re-introduce measures if necessary, and it will harm confidence. It is therefore important for the government to continue to reflect critically on the way in which measures are taken and phased out in the case of colliders and disappointments. Just pointing to the behaviour of residents and entrepreneurs without looking at their own role is not appropriate. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate, on behalf of my group, I stressed the importance of the enforcement of measures. In recent weeks we saw how travellers carried the delta variant to the Netherlands, despite the quarantine obligation. We also saw how people without a valid corona ticket entered the entertainment venues or major events. My group would therefore like to ask the government to take greater account of enforcement in future decisions on the opening up of society. Can the Minister indicate how he will take better care of that from now on? I'd like a response. Can the Minister also indicate how the wide-ranging relaxation of rules has affected the enforcement of the rules laid down? Mr. Chairman. The fact that the course of the coronavirus is difficult to predict has often been proven in recent times. The PvdA Group therefore understands that it is necessary to keep available instruments to intervene, or to intervene, whenever necessary. A large part of the instruments originate in the toolbox of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. They're so far-reaching that we've decided that they can only be deployed temporarily. But how temporary is a virus that is so difficult to predict? In the last extension of the Temporary Law measures, my group was already wondering whether Parliament would have agreed to the temporary law if it had known that this temporary law would remain in force for so long. This question is still being answered by the government. Nevertheless, the PvdA is pleased that the scope of the adopted motions-Janssen and-De Boer on the decisive control of the Upper Chamber is thus enshrined in the law. These proposals improve the position of the States-General and thus the democratic legitimacy of the heavy measures that can be taken on the basis of this law. It does not, however, mean that it should become normal to base these heavy measures on the temporary law created under steam and boiling water. My group continues to believe that it is important for the government to develop legislation on new instruments or other instruments that can be used in time after the Temporary Law measures covid-19. As far as my group is concerned, that time must come quickly. Has the government made any progress in shaping a carefully considered, permanent package of government instruments that could possibly be used with Parliament's consent in the fight against a future pandemic? When can the Chamber see these proposals? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA still has some doubts about the government's plan of action. This describes in particular how we monitor how the epidemic is developing, but gives little insight into what measures will be taken if the corona virus starts to beat around it again. The plan of action is largely based on careful monitoring by means of testing and sewage monitoring, as well as on increasing vaccination rates and local intervention where flares occur. My group is wondering whether this is effective enough, and it has now become clear that even with careful monitoring and an increasing vaccination rate, contamination rates have risen at a rapid rate over the last week. Can the Minister indicate where this monitoring has gone wrong over the past few weeks? What concrete instruments does the government intend, with the lessons of the past week in mind, to need to be able to act if the virus is to spread again quickly? Mr. Chairman. Finally, my group notes that the delta variant of the virus is an increasing part of the cases of infection both internationally and in the Netherlands. This means that mutations of the virus pose a greater risk for a new wave of infection. As a result, the PvdA, together with the government, considers it very important to address the source of the mutations in places where little vaccination is still taking place. The Corona virus makes the call for international solidarity painfully clear. The PvdA wishes to emphasise that vaccination is necessary in all corners of the world in order to achieve a safe situation. The government states to have donated vaccines to Suriname, Cape Verde and Indonesia. Appreciate that. The PvdA does wonder whether the government can no longer invest in more parts of the world. What plans are there to increase the volumes of donations after the summer? What exactly does the Netherlands' contribution at EU level look like? At the end of July, the European Council discusses how the European Union deals with the corona crisis. The summit will call for an in-depth evaluation of the EU response. The PvdA Group would like to ask the Minister to use, where necessary, an additional evaluation of how the European Union has made vaccines available to non-EU countries. Is the government prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u59	I hear Mr Karakus of the Labour Party calling on the government to show more international solidarity and distribute vaccines around the world, but they also have to be paid for. Does Mr Karakus not agree with me that we can use this budget much better for care in our own country, to get it up to date, in case there is another virus outbreak or whatever? That money is simply desperately needed in our own country and should not be given away to foreign countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u60	Mr. Van Hattem only emphasizes it from the financial point of view. We can have a great debate on this: isn't it cheaper to stop it and be preventive? Once the virus spreads, it costs money. What matters is whether we are united, whether we are prepared to show solidarity with the rest of the world, where people are begging for vaccines. People are in a lot more pain there than we are. The healthcare sector can't handle it. I would like to emphasise that. I also think it would be much cheaper and more reliable if we were to take preventive action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u61	Mr Karakus says it is a financial point, but it starts with that. Those vaccines have to be paid for from something, too. They don't grow on trees, they're not free. If you're gonna give something away to abroad, it's just gonna cost the Netherlands money, and we're gonna need that money to invest in our own care. Isn't it much more sensible to say "we're going to get extra ic-beds here, that there are more hands on the bed, that care is in order here in the Netherlands" instead of using this again as a disguised form of development cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u62	Let us first determine what contribution the Netherlands has made. That is the question to the Minister. Let us also note that we are asking the European Union if it is prepared to make an additional contribution to international solidarity. Then we can discuss whether it is worth it and whether it costs a lot of money and whether it is not better preventively. We can have that discussion, but it's too soon now. My question to the Minister is to get a picture of this: how much has the Netherlands contributed and when?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u63	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u64	It is nice and nice to ask the European Union to contribute, but in the end we pay the same as the Netherlands. We're net contributors. It is going to cost us a lot of money on the left or right, in any case, that we can, again, use it much better in our own country rather than spreading it around the world out of international solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u65	We're different about that. We believe that we must show solidarity to the rest of the world. They're having a hard time, too. If we can make a contribution to that, we'll be happy to do so. What this contribution is going to entail, how much that may and will cost and what it means for the Dutch situation, we can discuss once we have that data on the table. We advocate international solidarity. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA sees that there are still significant steps to go back to a stable corona situation. First of all, the plan of action on points needs to be fleshed out and adjusted in the light of the increasing levels of contamination in recent weeks. In addition, the government must ensure that, before society can be reopened, enforcement in the area of corona admission certificates and the quarantine obligation is in order. Above all, it is important that the government draws lessons for the future. That starts with reflecting on one's own behavior, and it should lead to legislation that will ensure that we can fight off further flares and pandemics properly. The use of emergency legislation should not become normal. We assume that the government is already working on an alternative to the temporary law and will soon submit it to Parliament. Finally, the Labour Party would like to ask once again not to make hasty decisions, but to deal carefully with relaxing and weighing up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u66	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u67	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group voted against the Janssen and De Boer motions on the extension of the Twm. The main reason was that our group was satisfied with the Minister's commitments regarding the involvement of this Chamber. However, the First Chamber has accepted these motions. The present bill shows that the Minister has carried out these motions generously. Our group welcomes this. I quote the words of the chairman of the group of the SGP, Mr Van der Staaij, who has also respected the wishes of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In the debate in the House of Representatives this law was discussed in detail and as far as I am concerned also with a good sense of humor. I am thinking of the moment when the Minister concludes a discussion on the word 'unfortunately' in the sense of 'presenting the approval law without delay' with the conclusion that 'unfortunately' should be interpreted as 'unfortunately'. You will understand that this kind of fundamental considerations of the Minister have contributed to my advising my group to vote in favour of this law. Mr. Chairman. However, our group hopes that this law will not last long. Experts expect the COVID-19 virus to remain active in the world for some time to come. They also expect that there is a reasonable chance that the world will face more infectious viruses. That is why we no longer consider a Temporary Law measures covid-19 to be appropriate. In our opinion, there should be a more permanent legal structure within the Public Health Act, which indicates how to act during the outbreak of a highly contagious virus at a time when the burden of care and good care in hospitals and the protection of vulnerable people are really at stake. I also refer to the contribution of Mr Prins of the CDA. Can the Minister promise that this bill for the next extension, December 1, will be with the Supreme Court? This gives greater clarity and clarity to society and ensures a more regular involvement of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u68	I am very curious whether the CU group will go so far as to say: if this does not happen, if it is not put down in time, then we will no longer be participating in an extension in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u69	That's just too much for me. It is very difficult to look into the future. We do not know what will happen in the near future, which is why we are asking for a commitment. Mr. Chairman. In his letter of 6 July, the Minister outlined his view on the use of measures against COOVID-19. On page 7, the Minister refers to the OMT's considerations about a new peak in care demand in winter in an unfavourable combination of lower immunity and an unfavourable reproduction number. The Minister also outlines the so-called dike surveillance he has set up, in which monitoring, testing and tracing, vaccination and measures are the most important instruments. The Minister gives four objectives of the measures. I'll limit myself to the first two. The first is acceptable strength of care and the second is the protection of vulnerable people in society. We can read this on page 14. If I understand correctly, it is currently about protecting vulnerable people in view of COOVID-19. This is in itself a good and respectable objective, but at the same time we also know that if the hospitals and the ic's are full or almost full of corona patients, a new group of vulnerable people is emerging, namely the patients whose care is delayed. It's about people waiting for heart surgery or cancer treatment. It is expected that it will take six months or longer before all this deferred care is provided. Mr. Chairman. I take the first two objectives together. Shouldn't we come to a different balance of covid care and regular care? Should we not intervene earlier, and as far as our group is concerned also occasionally harder, in order to continue regular care? If we control bed occupancy for covid care, it's the question if that's the best parameter, shouldn't it be at a relatively low value? I'm giving a shot at the bow: somewhere between 10% and 25% of the number of hospital and ICU beds. Can the Minister promise that he will steer a better balance? And where is that percentage in his vision? That brings me to the fight against the pandemic. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking to you about it. I'm a runner. I love to run long distances in the Hillland, the Ardennes, Sauerland or other stretches of hilly area: 10, 15, 20, 25 kilometers or longer. I've also learned how to do it from my own trainer. I'm on a runaway group. These days, I listen to people like this. There are at least two iron rules. The first is: as soon as you go up, you have to adjust your speed. The second is that when you descend you should not let yourself go, but that you go down in a quiet speed, so that you can rest before you take the next mountain. The fraction of the Christian Union is uncomfortablely surprised by the sharp increase in the number of infections in recent days, especially as this increase was predicted by several experts. Our group recognises that the pressure from society and from the Chambers for relaxation was high. Yet, to stay in the running metaphor, we have completely let go. We have not asked ourselves whether we should rest to have enough energy for the next mountain. Also, when the infections increased, we adjusted our speed too late. It seems that we still don't understand what an exponential increase is. I'm a natural scientist; that's what I want to say. At the time the letter was written, July 6th, the number of infections was already rising sharply for a number of days. Just on that day, the signal value was exceeded. It was also clear at the time that the delta variant was much more contagious. It was not until 10 July that the new measures entered into force. It is also serious that it is becoming increasingly apparent that 25% to 50% of young people who are infected suffer from lung covid. All in all, a serious situation. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Our group is not yet convinced that dike monitoring is sufficiently in order. The question is whether the objectives of the measures are being achieved. Can the Minister reflect on the fact that we have lifted the corona measures so quickly, that I am going to use the running metaphor at the highest speed, when we did not know which hills were waiting for us, and that we did not change our speed, when the numbers rose again? It is therefore not surprising that one of your colleagues from Belgium has used the word 'jojo policy'. Mr. Chairman. What does this mean for dike surveillance? Should we not take more care and time to relax, precisely because there are so many uncertainties in the behaviour of the virus and also because there are so many uncertainties in the behaviour of the citizen? Our group is therefore looking forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u70	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u71	Mr Verkerk referred to the words of Mr Van der Staaij during the legislative consultation on courtesy. But that could give the impression that the House of Representatives only approved this bill out of courtesy. My question to Mr Verkerk is whether he has also heard Mr Van der Staaij say that it is certainly reasonable, given the role played by the First Chamber in the establishment of the Twm, that the First Chamber would also have a say in its extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u72	Here's what I'm gonna say. Now that the two motions have been adopted here and this law has also been passed in the Lower House, we welcome the anchoring in this law. It is a question of restricting fundamental rights. We have to deal with that very carefully. That is why our group welcomes this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u73	Thank you for that. I asked because Mr Van der Staaij was quoted for one word, but not for the other. But I welcome Mr Verkerk's explanation that it is not just a question of courtesy but also of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u74	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u75	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of the JA21 Group, we would like to thank Mr De Boer and Mr Janssen and the cabinet for their efforts, which have led to the legislative proposal before us. Our group will agree to this, I can say. Then the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Unfortunately, in view of the situation, my group has to note that this may be necessary. There's not much else we can do. This may be a very short story, because many of the questions that our group has raised have already been put to me by speakers, but I have to say that I have a lot to do. On the train on the way to this debate I noticed a somewhat heated discussion between a conductor and a passenger. The bet was the mouth cap. The passenger didn't feel like wearing one. To the conductor the clean task to explain the usefulness and necessity of wearing a mouth cap patiently. In the run-up to this debate, we have followed everything and seen everything, I thought about it. One question arose in my head, bearing in mind this debate. I think it is a question that many people in the Netherlands would like to ask this minister. I am happy to be in a more than privileged position to put this question in this house to the Minister, so do the Minister ever think about that conductor, the doorman or the nurse? Does he ever think about all those people in charge of implementing and enforcing his legislation? They are responsible for the consequences, not so much of an unpredictable virus and strict measures that are needed to contain it, because they are professionals and stand for it, but of the communication mess that this cabinet has made of it. We are looking here, among other things, at proportionality, feasibility and enforcement. After a stupid song by Minister Grapperhaus about a lost mouth cap, a silly rhyme by Minister De Jonge about dancing after a Janssenprik and the grif letting go of the reins by Prime Minister Rutte, the feasibility of the whole set of covid measures has been seriously compromised. Take the quarantine duty. What did I say to this minister on behalf of my group in this House about the duty of self-insulation after travel? "It's untenable." What were the headlines from the newspapers a few weeks after that debate? Surprise: "The quarantine obligation is unenforceable." I'm not too dignified to be very triumphant sometimes to be right, but in this case I really would have preferred to be wrong. What was the reaction of this minister in that debate at the time to our question of what this quarantine obligation actually costs? There was a laughing reference to the documents: "It is in the documents, Mrs. Nanninga. That costs 20 million euros." I can read, but that wasn't our question, of course. Our question was not literally a demand for euros and for pennies. How much is it? How much does it cost for social damage? What is the cost of the credibility of this cabinet, if, of course, this goes irrevocably wrong, is not enforceable? How much does it cost to enforce authority? A bit jolly flopping off and then of course things went wrong. This also showed the disastrous press conference last Friday, in which the implementation, enforcement and the elaboration of the laws of this cabinet, of this minister, were shamelessly passed on to the OMT, to the young people and to the catering industry, who for more than a year had been looking forward to the golden age that had been pricked and tested and that everyone could resume life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u76	I hear Mrs Nanninga from her group of the same name say that it is really necessary to extend the current measures and the current law, that these measures are necessary. But can Mrs Nanninga explain what measures are necessary and effective, if at the same time she finds that some of these measures are already untenable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u77	As Mr Van Hattem knows, for example, I have raised a great deal of objection to the quarantine obligation. But it seems, in line with what the OMT recommends, that we have given up too early things like the 1.5 meters, the mouth caps and the limited access, that they were released too early. I would have preferred it to be different, but I think there are a lot of measures that really should have been held for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u78	We are talking about measures that seriously restrict fundamental rights and freedoms. For example, we also have measures such as 1.5 metres outdoors and all the measures you have just said are a major burden on the catering industry, young people, etc. Are you sure... Is Mrs Nanninga convinced that these are effective measures, proven effective measures? And is it enough to automatically prolong this violation of fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u79	We welcome the legislative proposal before us, in which there is more democratic control over the violation of fundamental rights. I absolutely agree with Mr Van Hattem. Unfortunately, this is ahead of us as a package. I wish we could cherrypick in there, but that's not possible. The fact is that things aren't under control yet, so the reins can't get loose yet. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u80	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u81	The place under control? With false safety, such as with the mouth caps or 1.5 meters outside, you can't control things, as Mrs Nanninga says. Then why would you want to extend these measures, these temporary measures, this emergency law if you don't solve things with false security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u82	We see that as soon as the measures are released, the whole country immediately shoots deep dark red. That makes a bit of sense for my argument that it would have been better to hold them for a little longer. I'm just gonna get a sentence back. It was therefore the elaboration of this communication of this cabinet and it was not the fault of the catering industry and the young people. The legislation, implementation, enforcement, communication, that lies with this cabinet, with this minister. That cabinet was warned here by several parties in this house when they reviewed these measures. This cabinet has been warned by mayors. This cabinet has been warned by the OMT. Well, and there they were today: reluctantly apologizing from the Prime Minister, but not without praiseing one's own actions, continuing to ignore the OMT's advice on ventilation and shorter validity of the test certificates, and remaining you-baked to especially young people who obviously didn't sit at a table at 1.5 meters to sip a sherry. Those kids went wild, all loose, and rightly so. Grapperhaus had a song: Rutte scrapes the measures. The young man had a rhyme. And they themselves had jumped through every possible hoop: seated, pricked, masked, tested. Yeah, and then the baked pears came. That would have been avoidable. And now the patience and trust of the Dutch is a bit of a piece and on. For the Minister, I still only have one question, and I really want an answer to that. Does he ever think about that conductor who can explain and maintain this cluster fuck? For conductor, he may also fill in "policeman" or "porter." We probably need to extend those measures, while the review frameworks proportionality, feasibility and enforcement have been completely undermined by this minister and this cabinet. This extension, Mr President, is perhaps necessary, but above all extremely painful. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u83	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u84	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my group colleague, Mrs Baay-Timmerman, who is unable to attend. Mr. Chairman. Today we are meeting in this house on the one-after-last day of the parliamentary year to discuss the change in the Twm in connection with the settlement of the requirement for approval by law of a royal extension decision as provided for in Article VIII (3) of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The reason for this bill is the Janssen c.s. motion. which was adopted by the Upper House on 27 October 2020. On 23 February 2021 the motion-De Boer c.s. on delegation under required approval by law adopted under 35526, AK. It preferred the modality of delegation under the requirement of approval by law. Both motions have been signed by me on behalf of my group. All's well, I'd say. I was thinking of a paraphrasing of no taxation without legislation. I would like to say: no restrictions without legislation. The chosen modality is that set out in point 8 of the letter from the Minister of the United States of America dated 19 February 2021 concerning the modalities for the implementation of the Janssen motion. During last October's debate, I myself tabled a motion on behalf of my group under 35526, K, for a difficult procedure. It was rejected, but there has been progressive insight. Before a sketch of the system of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 to date. The measures to be taken to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus shall be governed by that Temporary Law Twm and the general measures of governance and ministerial arrangements based thereon. Decisions taken under the Temporary Law Twm can be of great social significance. Not only do they touch certain fundamental rights of citizens, but they also intervene deeply in personal life. I am thinking here of the lockdown of the last few months, the obligation to work at home, the closure of schools and all other restrictions on freedom that have been taken since last March to prevent further spread of the virus. As described in the explanatory memorandum, the current Temporary Law Twm provides for a pending procedure for both the Second and First Chambers on the extension decision to be taken every three months. By royal decree, the term of validity of the law or of the various designated parts shall be extended by three months each. The draft shall then be submitted to the States General. No later than a week after the date of submission, the final nomination for that decision shall take place. In addition, the Advisory Section of the Council of State shall be heard on the measures in force under Chapter Va prior to the extension decision. So much for the state of play as it entered into force from 1 December 2020. Mr. Chairman. This bill provides for both the Second and First Chambers of the States General to be given the right in the future to cancel an extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, Twm, and thus to definitively terminate the duration of the Twm. The direct cause for this was the Janssen motion, followed by the De Boer motion, in which the upper chamber was preferred. Delegation under the requirement of approval by law means that the government must submit a bill to the House of Representatives immediately after the Royal Decree to renew it in the Official Journal, without consulting the Council of State, which is intended to approve the Royal Decree. If the Second or First Chamber rejects the bill, all provisions of which the duration of the bill has been extended shall expire with almost immediate effect. Rejection of the adoption act will mean that the Temporary Act will cease to exist and that no legal measures can be taken to combat the epidemic of COVID-19 or a direct threat thereof. The relevant ministerial arrangements and the Temporary Decision will automatically lapse. As it is undesirable to combine a front and follow-up procedure, the pending procedure for the extension decision contained in the Twm will be terminated. Mr. Chairman. My group is pleased that the First Chamber is gaining more decisive control with this new bill. It is not just a legislative proposal, it is a law which, despite its temporary nature, has far-reaching consequences. We will therefore vote in favour as a 50PLUS group. Nevertheless, we still have a few questions. Why was this approach chosen, whereby both Chambers can vote in favour or against? And it is very likely that, for example, there is a majority for the distance regulation but not for the other measures. With this law the entire extension of the Twm could be undone and thus the operation of the Twm finally ends. My question to the Minister is: is this the most up-to-date state of affairs, with an unimaginable increase in the number of infections, the most sensible choice at the moment? Is there really no other intermediate solution possible? This bill, in which the First Chamber acquires more decisive control, strengthens the involvement as a whole. As far as our group is concerned, there is no doubt about that. At the same time, we are very concerned about the situation that has arisen, in which the delta variant is unheard of. It is extremely sensible to ensure that measures to control the spread of the covid virus can be scaled up quickly and adequately. The all-or-non-procedure, as it is now before us, raises questions in the case of emerging infections. I would like an additional explanation from the Minister on this topicality in relation to this bill. The present bill was submitted on 25 June. On 26 June, Step 4, with further relaxations, entered into force. I would like to call that an ominous timing, although that is an ex post observation. We have to note with sadness that the relaxations seem to have learned too little from everything that took place last summer. That was also my first picture when I saw that the relaxations of step 4 were announced. How is it possible? Didn't we learn from last summer? Mr. Chairman. When restricting fundamental rights, a thorough legal basis and a review of the criteria of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity are necessary at all times. In addition, the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State is always of great importance. Can the Minister explain again why he considers that the exclusion of hearing this section on the approval law is justified? In our opinion, the justification for duplication is not sufficient. I'd like another explanation. Mr. Chairman. As the situation is now, it does not appear that people who have had a first vaccination can obtain a second vaccination in time to be well protected from the delta variant, which is more contagious than the British variant. In our view, it is not only the case that, if the delta variant is so explosive to young people, there is a high risk of new mutants threatening the protection of vaccinations, but also that the risk of lung covid and the associated pressure on care can cause considerable problems. This puts the care continuity at risk. After all, there is also a tsunami of recovery care that needs to be picked up and also a flu wave can be expected this autumn. At present, large groups of 40s, 50s and 60s who are not yet fully vaccinated are at greater risk of becoming ill or even being admitted. Older people and vulnerable people who are not fully affected by the vaccine are also at risk. The Minister is undoubtedly familiar with the phenomenon of protecting vaccination against serious illness and hospitalisation, but not entirely against infection. And the protection of one vaccination is much lower. In other words, if the infections among young people and the groups of 40s and 50s, their parents, have not yet been fully vaccinated, our group believes that it is awaiting an increase in hospitalization in the nursing departments and perhaps in the ic's. What does the Minister intend to do about this? Does the Minister still believe that the basis for extending curfew should not be extended? If so, please provide a detailed explanation, because the infection rates do not look rosy. Mr. Chairman. The final question I have left is: is the Minister prepared to prepare, what I call, some sort of calamity law so that, if this law expires, rapid action can be taken which can distinguish by type of approach and type of problem: closures, curfews, mouth caps and so on? Mr. Chairman. I brought the mouth cap with me, because today I heard that in the OLVG hospital in Amsterdam the mouth caps are again required. I am not talking about the Minister's song, but perhaps it was not so wise, because wearing a mouth cap, even outside and certainly inside the shops, is a signal that we are far from ready for a truly open society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and his staff for the enormous effort they have made over the last year and a half to keep the effects of the pandemic manageable, and for answering the constant flow of questions. This will have been done very often during the nights and weekends, and that will have been the case again last weekend. With extra admiration but sometimes also with care, I look at the Minister, who still seems to be working tirelessly through lengthy debates. I believe it was the minister himself who said: the corona crisis is not a sprint, but a marathon. But from an experienced marathon runner I've heard that you can only maintain that marathon if you have trained well for it, and this is not a marathon for which we have trained and the finish is not yet in sight. Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to have given this minister a well-deserved, carefree summer to join his family in all efforts. And that was reciprocal, because he also gave us such a summer in which we could travel again and attend events and parties. How bad is it then to find out within two weeks that the only one celebrating is the virus, and still as an uninvited guest. The approximately 200 infections among 600 still unprotected visitors of a discotheque show once again how quickly the virus spreads to people who get too close to each other. The new delta variant adds a little bit to that. Such outbreaks also show that all the measures taken so far to prevent the spread of the virus are not for nothing and that, if you are not protected because you have been through or vaccinated, you are still not safe from the virus. In the last week, the number of infections has increased exponentially, especially among young people. The assumption is that young people are safe because they do not generally get seriously ill, but last Friday the Minister warned about the consequences of long covid, which also occurs among young people, even after mild complaints. My question to the Minister is why this has not been communicated so explicitly before. Or are these insights of recent date? The nighthoreca-related infection clusters show that the access tests in a number of places have not worked properly. Unfortunately, the practice turns out to be a lot more aggressive than in the controlled settings of the field labs, where everyone was of course keen to make the experiments succeed well. In the real world, unfortunately, there are always people trying to circumvent the rules. That is, of course, unacceptable, but I was surprised to hear how bad people in charge of access controls have been instructed. What do you mean a moving cyclist to see that we are not dealing with a screenshot and why a personal code that needs to be verified with the ID? Apparently, some of them had never heard of this before. My question to the Minister is who was responsible for the correct instructions to those at the gate. And is the system of access checks in the hospitality sector sufficiently well thought out in advance, partly in relation to the size of the establishments and the possibility of monitoring them? There was supervision, but that was demonstrably insufficient. Does the Minister share this conclusion? I also heard the Minister explain that the OMT opinion on the validity of the access test was not followed for practical reasons and was set at 40 hours. The test streets wouldn't be able to handle the weekend peak. But is such a practical limitation sufficient reason to take such an important advice from the OMT next to you? I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. Despite these comments, the VVD Group understands the relaxations taken by the government on 26 June, although I was personally surprised by the addition that all catering companies could release the 1.5 meter by means of access tests. But when the number of recordings and infections is virtually zero, there are no good arguments anymore to impose all kinds of restrictions on people. How many times have we discussed the proportionality of the measures here? A society that is longing for more freedom would not have understood a longer lockdown at that time either, but my group does have reservations about the implementation and enforcement of the decisions. Another concern is the implementation of measures for travellers, including the obligation to quarantine travellers from high-risk countries. For example, a new virus mutation is currently circulating in Suriname, which makes young people in Suriname sick and also end up in hospitals. There are Dutch and Surinamese who regularly travel between the two countries. What measures are being taken to prevent the introduction of this change in the Netherlands, I ask the Minister. And is our vaccines already known to provide sufficient protection against this new virus variant? Mr. Chairman. Then there's a whole other point. In the 118th opinion, the OMT explicitly calls for attention to be paid to the legal tension of employers around workers who do not want to be vaccinated. The employer may not ask about the worker's vaccination status, but is obliged to provide healthy and safe work. For employers in care, the various obligations to provide good and safe care are added. It is known that not everyone is protected by the vaccine. A small group does not build up resistance after vaccination. People with vulnerable health in particular are concerned about this in relation to possible contacts with unvaccinated caregivers or volunteers. After all, you cannot know if you are protected by the vaccine until you are unexpectedly infected and become seriously ill. The OMT even speaks of "a medically unwanted situation." The VVD Group asks the Minister what he intends to do about this. Does the Minister not agree that care workers should be able to take measures to prevent vulnerable clients from coming into direct contact with unvaccinated employees or volunteers? Is the Minister prepared to amend the legal framework if necessary? The OMT is drawing attention to this for a reason. Your British colleague has already preceded you. Mr. Chairman. Then the bill amends Temporary Act measures related to the regulation of the requirement of approval by law. It should not be surprising that the VVD is not enthusiastic about this proposal. We have not voted in favour of the motions on which this proposal is based either. The regulation of the requirement of approval by law has become an all-or-no provision. Rejection of the adoption act has an irreversible legal effect: the whole of Twm will lapse. This is contrary to the rejection of the continued proposal in the Special Powers Act, which has been mentioned here as an example. In that case, only the measure will be repealed, but the law will remain in force. If there are circumstances giving rise to further action, the Government may, on the basis of the law, re-decide three times bg to initiate the relevant provision and re-start an approval procedure. The question is whether this bill is not a pyrrus victory. What if one of the Chambers rejects the proposal for approval and still needs new measures? The past week has shown how, with enthusiasm for a good development in the pandemic, we can suddenly find ourselves in a completely different situation. If the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is no longer in force at that time, the relapse option is the Public Health Act. I would say: away from parliamentary involvement and back to local emergency regulations. The proponents of this proposal will now say that it is not going to be this fast, but the VVD Group would prefer to do so. We are perfectly capable of doing so, and we have always stated that we are prepared to deal with the way parliamentary involvement in the Twm has been regulated, especially as long as the Wpg has not been adapted. I understand that the Minister promised to the Lower House in September to come up with a plan of approach for the evaluation and adaptation of the Wpg. Can the Minister undertake to inform this Chamber as well about this evaluation and the actions it will take? Several colleagues have already asked for this. Finally, Mr President. I just can't help but sense that this bill will be passed tomorrow. Do I understand correctly that this means that, somewhere in mid-August, the government submits to the House of Representatives the proposal for the adoption of the third extension decision of the Temporary Law measures covid-19? I'm assuming that's necessary. After that, the Second and First Chambers should, as usual, consider the legislative proposal temporarily. It seems to me that a parliament which agrees with this law is also obliged to put the approval law to the vote as close as possible to the extension decision. The next extension is on 1 September, as I indicated. That's in the middle of the recess. I don't care, but it looks like the minister isn't the only one who can't go on vacation this year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u87	Then you will, Mrs. De Bruijn-Wezeman. Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u88	Thank you, Mr President. With the law we are discussing today, I am going to confine myself solely to this law and do not go into the whole policy, that other senators do raise the issue of a decisive power to parliament. I can only say that this is right and that we have always wanted it to be so. I am pleased that the government has come to that understanding and that this law has been passed. Many others have also pointed out that this decisive control is simply necessary, because it is a restriction of fundamental rights. Parliament should have strong control over this in a democratic rule of law. So we are pleased with the decisive authority. But is it a good law? 'Cause what kind of authority do we get? In this respect, I was pleased with the questions asked by the VVD and with the answers that have been given, because this will also be clarified. And I was surprised to hear again here, in the discussion between Mrs De Bruijn and Mr Janssen, which actually raises the question: is it a good law in the sense that we can live up to our say? That's one, and two: isn't it too big a gun? I would like to dwell on those two points. Under the current regime, Mr Van Rooijen went into detail on the subject of a light fronting procedure. This means that the two chambers can discuss with the government what the government wants to propose to maintain legal powers. Any control is not linked to that. And in the law as it stands, that control is there, but that's where the hanging procedure has been taken out again. In the Lower House there has been an extensive discussion about this. An amendment has also been tabled and tabled, with an attempt to get that veil back in. That amendment was not accepted. My question is: do we really need this formal procedure? Because if you look at what is actually the purpose of that veil... The purpose of that veil is that both chambers want to know in advance what the government intends to extend powers, and what powers are not extended. Let me just put it to the Minister: I have the impression that there is no need for a formal procedure for this at all. Let me put it this way: if the Chamber now adopts a motion requiring the government to state in good time, before the Royal Decree is adopted, what powers in the toolbox it wishes to retain, and the government carries out that motion, then the content of the Royal Decree can still be debated, and will it be clarified which KB has a chance to obtain approval by law? So we don't need that formal backup procedure. I have heard the government say, even in debates on the corona measures, that there is always a good look at motions and that motions are also being carried out. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can promise here that the government, if this law is passed, before a KB for renewal is adopted, will indicate in a written note to both chambers the powers it wishes to retain from the toolbox in good time. I would also like to say straight away that I am considering a motion on that point. And how's that gonna work? The government tells both chambers in good time which powers will be extended. Both chambers will discuss this with the government, which will see what extension it will achieve. The KB is then established and an approval law is submitted. And if that is in line with the opinion of the Chambers, then in fact that law is a hammerpiece, and so do we have what Mr Van der Voort asked us not to require the government to at least answer all the questions in good time. And if the government has not followed the judgement of the Chambers, well, then rejection of the clearance law will be the result. And that's what it's supposed to be in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u89	I have listened carefully to Mr Nicolaï, as has often been the case. I actually have this question: may I perhaps deduce from his words that he believes that the cabinet should not have come up with an all-or-non-law, but should have looked into whether various measures are possible in the new legislation for various categories of problems, such as curfew or closure? Those are also the things I mentioned in my speech. Because it is all or nothing now, and I do not think that is what Mr Nicolaï means or what we would prefer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u90	Then Mr Van Rooijen looks at the proposal differently from the way I look at it. The proposal is not that it is all or nothing. All or nothing is that we can only say yes or no. But what we say yes to or no to, it's clear from the KB. In the Royal Decree, we may not extend the power to set a curfew, but we may extend the power to take other measures. So the government is in any case making an assessment that it will shortly lay down in the Royal Decree, which states that we are going to extend these powers and not others. Perhaps all powers will be extended. That depends on the situation at the time. All or nothing is that we can only say yes or no. It is, of course, much better to shape the power of parliament, in the sense that we can also discuss what is to be regulated in that royal decision. That's because there was a front suspension procedure. Then we saw it and we were formally given the opportunity to debate it. My point is that the suspension procedure is not in place now, but the Minister says that he is always willing to look carefully at motions and implement them. If we in the Chamber ask us to inform ourselves in good time about the choice of government at least before the Royal Decree is adopted, then it may be debated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u91	Let me ask you a different question. In a recent debate with Minister Grapperhaus here, Mrs Baay said that nothing is more permanent than a temporary law. Minister Grapperhaus agreed, in view of the earlier extensions, and also announced, if I have read it correctly, a new law. The new law isn't here. We are only talking about ending an existing law. There will indeed be the possibility of a royal decision, but how do you look at the promise made by Minister Grapperhaus that he will come up with a new law, because you cannot continue with temporary extensions? I will also ask the Minister in his reply. Looks like permanent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u92	I would like to say a few words about this, but that is not what is currently regulated by this law. There's gonna be a new law. That's a promise. Mrs. Prins asked me about that one more time. The Christian Union has also asked for it. I have asked the Christian Union what they will do if it is not submitted in good time. There's got to be one. That is a structural revision of the Public Health Act, which prepares that law for when other zoonoses or otherwise come to us outside COOVID-19, so that we have the toolbox ready. There's got to be one anyway. We're not talking about that right now. We are talking about the situation that there is a chapter in that Public Health Act that has been said to be temporary. This temporaryity will be extended because the structural revision of the Public Health Act is not yet in place. That extension of temporaryity is the subject of today's debate. We have that control now. It's nice to have formal control, but let's make sure that we have material control, so I'd like to invite the government to say, "We'll make sure we inform you about what powers we leave in the toolbox and what we get out of it before that royal decision comes about."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u93	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u94	Finally. Can I conclude from these words by Mr Nicolaï, and perhaps from other colleagues, that there is sufficient confidence that, when the law expires on 1 September, if it is adopted, there will be not only a note containing all kinds of options, but also that the legal tool is there to proceed with measures with a legal basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u95	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u96	In this respect, I fully support Mr Van Rooijen. That is why I asked whether, if there is no progress, there will be a time when we, as the Chamber, must say that we will no longer approve the extension of the temporary law. We have that control now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u97	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u98	Then I come to the other point, namely whether the guns are too coarse. Because we can only say yes or no. I think that Mrs De Bruijn has asked a very fair question about this and that it is also a good thing that we are informed about it, because if we say no, that means that the toolbox as contained in the Public Health Act falls out. That's the consequence. That is actually the result of a piece of legislative technique and that is very easy to solve. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to take a look at that. What it now says is that, as from three months after the date of entry into force of this law, those chapters will expire. But if you replace that "repealed" with that its operation is suspended, you can cancel or suspend the suspension in the KB. Then in fact you have the same system of that Act extraordinary powers of civil authority. That is a minor change, but that will prevent us from getting into a situation where if there is a conflict between the government and the Chamber, where the Chamber plays it high and says 'if you do not want to listen we are not going to approve that law', there will be a gap. And we must avoid that. So if we want to pass the law here in peace and in good spirits, my question is whether the government can promise: we're going to inform you in time about the toolbox and we're going to see if, now that we've arranged it, the word "delayed" is actually the right word in that provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u99	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u100	Mr. Chairman. The corona measures taken are far-reaching and should therefore have a sound legal basis. This is a restriction of fundamental freedoms, and this certainly does not fit in with a laconic attitude. During the parliamentary treatment of the Twm, therefore, the Eerste Kamer also discussed the precise involvement of parliament in a possible extension of the law. During the last period, discussions with the government continued on this issue. Now there is a bill in this Chamber to further strengthen the involvement of the First Chamber in the extension of the Twm. The amendment of the law builds on the preference expressed by the First Chamber in the adopted motion-De Boer c.s. The Twm lays down as a requirement that a royal extension order is subject to approval by law. Both chambers thus have decisive control over the extension of the Twm. The SGP did not support the De Boer motion at the time, as did the Janssen motion. In the balance between parliamentary involvement on the one hand and the need for a cabinet to act swiftly in a crisis on the other hand, we were able to live with the situation at the time. We also considered it acceptable that the First and Second Chambers should not have equal treatment in every respect, partly in order to prevent these Chambers from being confronted in times of crisis. Our group was based on the political primacy of the House of Representatives, in the knowledge, moreover, that the House of Lords was able to assume its responsibilities through debate or motions. Mr. Chairman. Given the current state of affairs around corona................................................................................................................................................................... Moreover, the legislative amendment now proposed is designed as a majority of the Upper House would like to see it. The Minister, with his bill, has taken up the appeal from this Chamber, it has already been quoted, in a courteous and chic manner. That is why my group is in favour of this amendment. A relevant point is, of course, how the cabinet will act on proposals from the Second or First Chamber to make a change to the Royal Decree, for example to repeal some provisions instead of extending them or vice versa. Of course, amendment to the approval law from the First Chamber is not possible and the pending procedure has been deleted. How does the Minister deal with requests for adaptation from the First Chamber? Can the Senate also count on a courteous and generous treatment here? How exactly does this take shape and shape in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u101	I hear that it would be a right of amendment in the House of Representatives, but as I read the article in the proposal, it says that there is a proposal for a law approving that royal decree. There's nothing to change about that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u102	I didn't mention the words "Second Chamber" either. Amendment is a double impossibility. Of course, amendment to the Act of Approval from the First Chamber is not possible. I could have said: not even from the Lower House. But I thought, "I'm sure you know that." Thank you for this question, my dear colleague. Mr. Chairman. Where the proposal for approval is rejected after the expiry of the time limits laid down in the extension decision, it shall remain without effect. That is a special consequence. If the extension decision is rejected in this way, it will have no legal consequences, but it will have political and administrative consequences. Would the Minister like to reflect on this again? Finally, but not least. It struck me that several rulers, Prime Minister Rutte, Minister Grapperhaus, declared that they were praying for Peter R. de Vries after the terrible attack on his life. I thought, "Hey, it's great they shared this carefree crowd." Of course I am not going to philosophize about something as personal as the prayer of these rulers, but I would like to say that prayer to the Lord God to get out of the corona pandemic as a society is equally crucial. In that light, I conclude with the wise words of Godfried Bomans. In 1970 he said the following beautiful thing about prayer: "A person who kneels and prays before bedtime cannot be called conservative. One can only say that he has saved something. The man who just gets into bed has lost that." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u103	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u104	Mr. Chairman. Last year, our group voted against the Temporary Covid Act, because it is disproportionate and infringes fundamental rights too much. We will therefore vote against the extension of this law. As we know, the Janssen motion for a greater role of the Upper House has been co-signed by us. Determinant control of the Upper House in the event of the extension of the temporary law is crucial for our group. However, we have the question to the government as to why the advice of the Council of State would be'senseful', as the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u105	Very briefly, because I was a little triggered by Mr Otten's remark that he is going to vote against the extension of this law. I think it is precisely the crux that we cannot yet do so. So I was wondering when he's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u106	We voted against this law in October. We have also voted against your motion, Mrs De Boer. I gave an explanation of vote on that. We are co-initiator of the Janssen motion for a stronger role of the First Chamber, but we found the De Boer motion too half-hearted for its implementation. That is why we did not vote for it at the time. As I said last October, a First Chamber which cannot defend its own rights loses its right to exist. As far as we're concerned, that role of the First Chamber can't be strong enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u107	I understand, but that's not an answer to my question. You just said that we are going to vote against the extension of the law. What did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u108	Should this law be extended at some point, we will maintain our original position last year, because we still consider the law disproportionate. Should that be the case, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u109	Yeah, because that's not going to happen for a while. I think that is only when the present law is adopted and we are going to vote in September. That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u110	That's right. So I'm getting a little ahead of myself. But we will also evaluate the role of the First Chamber in this debate, and we will look at the opposite. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. After almost one and a half years of corona we are back to square one: "Go back to start. You will not receive a bonus for a good approach to the corona pandemic." Because of the structural inability of this cabinet of historians, teachers and other alphas to act with a vision we are now in no time again with the fastest growing number of corona infections in the world. An achievement of magnitude! That's what happens when you have a bunch of hobby pilots in the cockpit that are mostly obsessed with imaging, one-liners and spider. Mr. Chairman. Teun van de Keuken wrote very strikingly this morning in the Volkskrant and I quote: "Ah, Hugo. You'd feel sorry for him if he wasn't so terribly knowledgeable, such a teacher who wants to explain everything to his weakly gifted class." Rake words! Incompetence as a business model. And when things go wrong, you just say "sorry" to the Dutch people as quickly as possible. This is how the Netherlands is run over the last few years. The Dutch people very much want better people in the government, but politics does not succeed in achieving this. The much-needed modernisation and professionalisation continue to go on and on. The mediocrity rules in the Netherlands. Well, that did bring to light the corona virus painfully. Of course, we could and should have used the corona crisis to shake off the overgrown administrative polder landscape and weed the many administrative weeds and streamline the administration and prepare it for the 21st century. But that opportunity has not been used, probably because these rulers themselves did not even know what is necessary for it. They think they're doing an excellent job themselves. Many times our group has tried to put its finger on the substance: the failing communication with the population, the reservations about the corona detector app, the temporary law corona, the role of this First Chamber, the foreseeable test fiasco of 700 million, the failing IT system around the puncture registration and so on. This cabinet is too keen on the theoretical models of the RIVM and often lacks the sociological aspects, which seem not to be in the model of Jacco of the RIVM, such as young people who share QR tests, disco owners who turn a blind eye to access control and people who see the corona measures mainly as a group game with the aim of avoiding the corona measures as conveniently as possible. Perhaps this is also because the Prime Minister himself has no children and may not be able to move well in contemporary Dutch youth, which has changed considerably,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u111	Mr. Otten! May I ask you not to address the Minister in his private situation? The minister is here in his capacity as minister and not as a private person. His family and children also do not belong in this debate. I'd love to. And the same goes for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u112	... because there have been very big changes in Dutch youth over the last year and a half. I can assure the Minister that, and so can the Prime Minister. The so-called 'Demob Happy' atmosphere, very appropriate words that Mr Boris Johnson used last week, was worth in the country at the beginning of July, especially among young people, and that was apparently not included in the models. Tens of thousands of young people are infected and at this rate, according to the epidemiologists, about a thousand young people a day are on long covid. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, with the timing of apologizing, the cabinet is a lot more competent than with the timing of the corona measures. But the coalition parties in this Chamber either don't think or don't understand what they're doing, or are so cynical that she just doesn't care what's happening. If things go wrong, you're just gonna say sorry, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u113	Mr. Otten actually says a bit bathinating: tens of thousands of young people are covid. You implicitly blame the government if I follow your story correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u114	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u115	I do not want to blame the young people; let me be very clear about that. But you are also not in favour of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, so you do not want any measures at all. If we had just let young people do the things they like for a year and a half, those tens of thousands of young people would have been infected much sooner if your policies had been implemented. So how are you gonna do better than this government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u116	I think you could have made legislation that didn't go as far as this temporary law. Last summer the discotheques were closed until 1 September, so that was not necessary at the time. The point is also that communication to the public is not fair and not transparent. The last press conference went all wrong. I now only hear people in the country saying: I can't even look at these gentlemen anymore; I'm done. I don't think people should underestimate how much mistrust is now after this press conference. I believe that with less far-reaching legislation, which would have reduced the infringement of fundamental rights, the same result could have been achieved if you could convince the people of the usefulness of the measures. Clearly, that hasn't happened now. In fact, everything has been released à la minute. Yeah, well, then you shouldn't be staring at young people who've been in there for a year and a half, and then they're gonna go crazy. That's what happened. I can tell you, Mrs De Bruijn: I live in Amsterdam and at the beginning of last week half young Amsterdam was sick. Everyone was at home tasting. You can see it in the numbers now. All that happened in the week before last week. That's when everyone ditched the discos. That went way too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u117	It is very bad that so many young people were ill, but that is precisely because there are rules that you say should never have been affected. I have heard you say this for a year and a half, but I have not heard a single proposal from you for a rule that you believe would actually affect fundamental rights less, but would then ensure that people would not be infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u118	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u119	Why don't you come up with a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u120	I say to Mrs De Bruijn, through the President, that you must take the right measure at the right time. It doesn't happen all the time. One sits in the rearview mirror looking: if the infections rise, then we have to do something. But it does not seem that if you want to steer the tanker, you have to take the turn 20 kilometers earlier. You have to shoot for the clay pigeons, so to speak, or shoot for the hares. It doesn't happen all the time. People ride their bikes after the facts every time. As a result, this distrust of the population has also arisen. That's not separate from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u121	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u122	That is independent of the law, because so far you have not supported any measure. You say: you have to take the right measures at the right time. Mr. Chairman. I note that Mr. Otten himself knows not to mention any measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u123	I'd like to respond to that. We have indeed supported a measure. We have also received a great deal of criticism. That was the curfew. I dare say that is not a popular point of view; I myself am the father of two young children, one of the measures that has worked best to prevent what is happening now. The fact that we have not supported any measure is nonsense. We did support the curfew at the beginning of this year, because we thought it was really necessary. I think the effect of that was pretty big, even though it wasn't popular. Now you see what happens when you open disco's from 0:00 to 4:00 a.m. So you've got what you're going through. You had the hammer and the dance. Well, this is the hammer and the trampoline. It doesn't go up anywhere in the world as fast as it does in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u124	Mr. Otten, you will continue your argument after Mr. Karakus has interrupted you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u125	I have a question. You now have the opportunity to give the Minister a number of measures. What measures should be introduced tomorrow, on your advice to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u126	I'll get to that in a minute. We have specific ideas about this. I'll tell you about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u127	Then I'll turn the clock back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u128	That's good, Mr. Chairman. I come to the answer to Mr Karakus' question. As has been said, this too rapid and too generous relaxation is, as far as we are concerned, yet another error of assessment on the part of this Minister. That is really a bridge too far, as far as we are concerned. Within a week, tens of thousands of young people were infected with the corona virus by this minister's failing dance-with-Janssen approach, while EUR 700 million was spent on an ill-thought-out test law, which, as we knew in advance, was never going to work. This was on top of the expenditure of 5 billion which, according to the General Court, this Minister cannot justify to his department. I'm getting to your point, Mr. Karakus. As far as our group is concerned, the measure is now full of this minister. That is why we are tabling the next motion of censure, which I shall now read out. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the VWS Minister has repeatedly proved unable to adequately and proactively control the corona pandemic; Considering that in the Netherlands, within a very short period of time, many tens of thousands of young people have become infected with the coronavirus due to demonstrably incorrect policy choices by the VWS Minister; expresses its disapproval of this matter; calls on the cabinet to ensure that the minister is replaced as soon as possible by a more competent executive to control the corona crisis and restore confidence between the government and the Dutch population, and goes to the order of the day. She gets the letters BV (, 35874).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u129	And my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u130	Then we have four and five. Then the motion is part of the debate, under 35526, 35874, letters BV. Then I'm going back to Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u131	I think you understand it wasn't an answer to the question. You have not mentioned any measures. A measure could be that you say: I think it is a good idea of the PvdA that the government should show more international solidarity and make more vaccines available. That's a good measure. For example, you could list a number of measures. I am genuinely curious, apart from your motion, because that is an explanation of what measures you are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u132	We can start sharing international vaccines. I am not against them at all, but that does not help the problem of the contamination of young people in the Netherlands. Our most important measure is another minister. That's why we just filed this motion. The whole approach needs to be kicked. I think trust in this minister is severely damaged. That was already erode, but that really happened after the press conference. As far as we are concerned, the solution begins with another minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u133	I think it is clear that at least there is support for making more vaccines available internationally. I'm glad. No further measures are listed by Mr. Otten. I expected that, but I'm sorry. You are critical, and you may be, but on the other hand you can also give some advice, such as: Minister, I would, if I were you, take these measures. I'm missing that in your plea, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u134	I'd like to get on with that. I am very curious to see what measures you want to take to do what you think is better than is the case at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u135	This is, in any case, ensuring that confidence in policy is restored to the public first. I don't see that happening so quickly in the current setting. You should start with that. You can't do that with a simple "sorry." It's gonna take more than that. There will also be a Second Chamber debate in this Chamber next Wednesday. There will also be a number of points raised. However, as far as we are concerned, the restoration of confidence is beginning, in my view, the title of the coalition agreement, in which your party participates, Mrs Prins... with another minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u136	What measures would you advise another minister? In the end, it's not about the person, not the minister. It's about the measures. You have problems with the measures. For me, the question is: what measures would you have liked to take differently and would you like to do differently from tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u137	I'm not the minister, but it's all about timing. That's where it goes wrong all the time. We have to go after the facts every time. That's gonna get us back in trouble. That's a recurring problem. That is what I have been discussing here for many months with all kinds of legislative proposals. Apparently that is because there is insufficient insight into the intuitive. For example, if you get a shot from Janssen, it takes two weeks for that shot to work. Then don't say... I know enough people who are now sick and who, one day after they received a positive test explanation, received the invitation for the shot on the bus. The timing of the measures is simply not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u138	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u139	I imagine you don't think the timing is right. It's possible sometimes, sometimes it's not. On the other hand, there are still a lot of measures that you have not supported and you can say 'better late than never'. But you didn't. I am very curious to see what measures you would like to take from tomorrow. So not only the timing of this problem, but what measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u140	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u141	In any case, I would never have done that expansion so quickly. That has gone completely out of control and that has now been reversed. For example, the press conference will not be held until 7 p.m. on Friday evening. Of course, you can do that sooner. It's not going in that night and we're waiting another day. That's how you make the problem bigger and bigger. It's too late every time or too early. The expansion was too early. So you need someone who can see through that better. As other speakers have pointed out before: if you got that shot, it doesn't mean that the shot works immediately. That'll take a couple of weeks or you'll even need a second shot. You can understand as a minister that you can't say: take a shot and you can go to the disco?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Mr. Otten, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u143	Mr President, I actually arrived at the end of my speech. For our part, this was the solution that is necessary for the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u144	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Then I give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Appreciate the comments made on the legislative proposal before us. I must say that there are some very convincing things in that. I do not think I can add much to that in my contribution, so I have limited my contribution on behalf of the Independent Senate Group to a small reflection on the corona pandemic so far and the topicality of last week. Mr. Chairman. The Independent Senate Group has always supported measures to combat the corona pandemic and has also appreciated, among other things, the minister present here today. Not every measure was equally strong, e.g. the months of imprisonment of the elderly in the care homes, but in a larger set the cabinet acted adequately with the majority of Parliament. Often the wheel had to be reinvented and working way solutions had to be found. In any case, this is worse than that. That is our belief. But the adagium frappez toujours applies. As previously in discussions, we have indicated that we are dealing with a multifaceted monster. This sometimes leads, like in recent days, to panic reactions, in which the cabinet lets the surest prevail over the uncertain and rigorously announces a number of measures. Mr. Chairman. Panic is usually a bad counselor, because it can lead to unwanted consequences and we must of course avoid them. The advice of the OSF is therefore: stick to the plan, cabinet. In other words: stay careful, keep a good balance and work planfully. Avoid hasty steps and focus on the issues that really matter. Mr. Chairman. The measures announced last Friday do not comply with this. Probably without a profound burden of proof, all kinds of restrictions were imposed on the entire Dutch population. But vaccinees are almost all immune to the virus. Vaccines do not transfer the virus to third parties. In short, vaccinees are not a threat to public health. There is therefore no valid reason for the government to impose those vaccinees on the basis of Article 22 of the TWM Constitution. In fact, this group of vaccinees helps society solve the pandemic problem. The cabinet should reward this group instead of punishing it. Or, we wonder, do the cabinet and the minister not believe in their own policy starting point that vaccination alone is the way out of this health crisis? Mr. Chairman. It would be a credit to this Parliament and also to the cabinet if these pandemic co-combatants could fully and undisturbedly exercise their fundamental rights and freedoms. The OSF requests the government to declare non-binding measures for fully vaccinated persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u146	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u147	The continuation of the debate will begin tomorrow morning with the Government's first-term response.
