ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. 17 Members have signed up to speak. In view of the fact that there are many speakers, I would like to agree with you that we are asking a total of six questions in the first term of the Members of Parliament and then another six questions in the first term of the governors. Let's see if we can make it together like this. I hope your interruptions are short, because we are many and I want everyone to come to their senses. That was my kick-off. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last weekend, my nephew became 1. We couldn't celebrate that together. Fortunately he has seen his grandfathers and grandmother divided over the days, but then the visitation schedule for the weekend was full. Last year, when he was just born, we celebrated it with a window visit. Because we are now entering the stage where we cannot do things for the second year in a row that we would like to do. A colleague told a similar story about her 16-year-old son's birthday: for the second time no party. I'm all about parties now, but there's a lot more we've been missing for so long. That's how we all have a story. 17 million personal stories telling us how coronamoe we are! 17 million stories that together form our collective coronachagrin! And yet that tiredness cannot and should not be a reason not to go through with it. There are still too many people in the hospital who are fighting Corona. In the same hospital, care workers are working their way around again. That hospital doesn't have heart and cancer surgery. And so the VVD understands that this week's cabinet decided to keep the measures as they are. So we have to put our grumpy aside and hang in there for a while. But spicy is, Mr President, not least for all those entrepreneurs who see the sun shine and crave to open up their business. Because last week it seemed as if the 21st would be more possible, the disappointment was extra great, with entrepreneurs and with all of us. I therefore really hope that we can do something soon. In this phase, days can make a difference. Days that, if your shop or cafe has been closed for a long time, can feel like weeks. I realize that. That is why it is good that next week the cabinet will review whether there is room and that weekly rhythm will remain. Mr. Chairman. For the past one and a half weeks, the cabinet has not excelled in clear communication when it comes to vaccination. Just after we climbed up in the rankings, we went down again. That gives a sense of losing control. I say "feeling," because there are so many reports that it is difficult to get a good picture of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mrs Hermans spoke about vaccination. That's what I want to talk to you about. I would like to talk about the madness of the directives on pivoting. Let me explain: spilling are the vaccines that are left at the end of the day when the agreements are up. In North Limburg they had a very good solution for that. People with vulnerable health, such as diabetics, were called on to be vaccinated in collaboration with the general practitioners. That's pretty good, you'd say. It's been working fine for weeks. But what's my surprise? After months of meetings, the VWS Ministry has drawn up a protocol that says: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'd give it to them, but they're often healthy, younger people. So vulnerable people should not be vaccinated with it. The Labour Party believes that we should simply follow the example of North Limburg nationwide and put the VWS guidelines aside. Does Mrs Hermans agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u4	What I hear in Mrs Ploumen's question is that every prick that is left at the end of the day must find a destination for someone to protect against corona. We agree with you on that one hundred percent. After my introduction to the vaccination, I come to an entire laundry list to ask the cabinet. One of my questions is precisely this: how do we deal with the reserve lists, or the surplus lists as the cabinet calls them, I believe? In a number of places I think it already runs; in other places it doesn't. The VVD does not want that to happen, I think it is the most important thing that, at the end of the day, bureaucracy and complicated procedures get stuck in the trash. That's what my question will be about: how does it work now, exactly how much freedom do GD locations have to make their own choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u5	I don't have to ask the Minister because I read that protocol: GGDs have zero freedom to decide. I repeat my question to Mrs Hermans: does she also think that these pricks should go to people with vulnerable health? They were outside here today on the Square: some have had to keep their children home for a year because they are afraid to get infected. So my question is very simple: does Mrs Hermans agree with me that we should ensure that the stakes that remain go to people with vulnerable health and we should leave it to the general practitioners and health services to arrange it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u6	My answer is just as simple: no sticking in the trash at the end of the day. Picks that are left may go to people with vulnerable health, but they may also go to people who are in contact with corona patients. We need to protect those who are most vulnerable or those who need to provide us with that intense corona care. I want to know from the Cabinet how we deal with the reserve lists and surplus and what, in relation to the coverage, is still in place for space, whether we could still create with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u7	The latter is encouraging, because the Minister thinks there is zero room and I hear Mrs Hermans now saying that there is room. I'm gonna make a proposal. I believe that the remaining vaccines should go to people with vulnerable health. They're on a waiting list now. Their lives and their children's lives stand still. I trust that Mrs Hermans will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u8	A brief reaction. I'm looking at all the proposals seriously. I have not yet heard the Minister in this debate. So I'm also waiting for his answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u9	The Minister has written a lot of letters about this. We've all been able to read the guidelines. The GGDs and the GPs are apparently not allowed to talk about it with the press, but we have been able to read about it. So the point is clear. I make a proposal and I expect Mrs Hermans to be able to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u10	The Minister sends a lot of letters. There's a lot in the media, too. I agree with you very much, but we are here in the debate, I am here to formulate my questions and I want to wait for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u11	I had a question about the catering industry, but first of all I wanted to follow up on the story of Mrs Ploumen, who is indeed referring to North Limburg. I also say to Mrs Ploumen: North Limburg often has even better ideas than South Limburg, especially now. That's almost a personal fact, but it's true. I would like to say to Mrs Hermans that the doctors who are indeed not allowed to talk about it by the Minister to the press, which is very strange, it is literally in the newspaper today that they are not allowed to talk to the press about it now: now we must, what we find unethical, give the so-called pivoting, the vaccines that remain at the end of the day, according to the new directive to healthy health care workers under 50, so they are healthy and who are not at risk as vulnerable people or people who have diseases that cause them serious problems when they get corona. I understand you're asking the cabinet a question, but I'm asking you a question like Mrs Ploumen. At a time when we are studying it well with the doctors and they say 'these groups are vulnerable and can get priority', my question is why, if there is anything left, they should not decide for themselves. With some general practitioners, there are just dozens of people in line who would like to get such a shot. Why can't you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u12	I fully agree with Mr Wilders, Mrs Ploumen and probably many other colleagues in the Chamber that we need to protect the vulnerable and the high-risk groups. That is why they are always placed in the forefront of the Health Council's advice. At the same time, we need to vaccinate people who work in healthcare as quickly as possible, especially the people in hospitals. I was just saying something about the pressure in the hospitals. As I read it now, the directive says that the hospital staff, the care staff, are the priority. My question is whether there is still room to do something for those vulnerable groups in one region if there are any vaccines left over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u13	Then I'll translate it like that, because you ask, you actually think so. Maybe I can interpret it like that. You're asking, but you'd really like to. That sounds a little different when you do that as a government group. I'm asking you a question. You say "do it" and they do it. I wish I were, but you usually are. Okay, then my question about the catering industry and the opening of the Netherlands. The Prime Minister of your party has made promises over the past few months. Sometimes he has said it literally when it comes to abolishing curfew. Then either he or one of his people leaked another piece that it's going to be April 21st. And it doesn't happen every time. Every time we see Dutch people, we see companies, we see middlemen, we see catering entrepreneurs who are very disappointed that it doesn't happen. My question is: do you not think that the cabinet should stop once and that the Netherlands should open up? For example, look at the terraces. They can just open. That's what hospitals say. That's what mayors say. That could even make us less infected. If everyone goes to a park massively now when the weather gets nice and you could spread the people over terraces, then not only do I think, but also according to people in the hospital, doctors and mayors, this leads to fewer infections. Why don't you tell me now: we're going to open up those terraces when the weather gets nice to make sure we don't get more, but less infections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u14	What I share with you is the hope that it can be done quickly, but I must also note that the pressure on hospitals is enormous at the moment. The ic's are very full, not only with corona patients but of course also with regular ic-patients. Regular care is being scaled down in the hospitals. So I hope, like you, that it can be done very quickly, but it must be safe and sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u15	But with all due respect, then you have not listened carefully to my question. Because the point of all those doctors and those mayors, and also of me, is that people are less and less following the rules, whether you like it or not. They feel less and less called for it. I predict that when the weather gets nice in the near future, let's hope that the weather will be beautiful on King's Day. You won't stop them. In fact, if you keep them in and they go to see each other, you're even further away from home. Because most infections, even indirectly, come from the home situation. So if you let that happen, you might have a lot of infections. I don't think it's too bad, because it's outdoors, but especially when people go in, it'll get worse. While it doesn't lead to more but probably less infections if you say: we spread it and we will also sit on the terraces. Don't you think that's a consideration? So this does not lead to more places in hospitals, to more code black; this leads to more places on the ic's. Isn't that a great argument to say we have to do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u16	Let me tell you something: I think it is a dilemma too. Because you think: do it regulated on a terrace instead of unregulated in a park. I myself live close to the Amstel, in Amsterdam, and there at the quay you see the same thing happening. It seems very logical, but opening a terrace and having a full terrace does not mean that the park is empty or that the quay is empty. And anyway, it leads to extra movements, to extra traffic on the street, to people walking in and out of a cafe to go to the toilet. So that means extra space for the virus. We don't have that space right now. I wish there was, but we don't have it because the pressure on hospitals and care is so unprecedented. What I do like is that the cabinet states: we are going to speed up our decision-making, because the situation can actually change day by day. Not once more every three weeks, but we go to once a week now. So my question is: will this continue to be the case after next week? I can imagine that in the short term, hopefully, this situation will change. But for now, the VVD Group says: not safe, not sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u17	To reduce the pressure on hospitals, we need to vaccinate the vulnerable. So I'll come back to vaccination policy. On this point, Mrs Hermans said that the last week and a half the cabinet's communication was unsatisfactory. I would say: let us make that a reality for the past year, because in clear communication, this outgoing cabinet is in any case not excels. At the same time, over the last few days, we have also been able to hear from various media that a number of groups are being promoted, despite the fact that there is a vaccination strategy. Top athletes and diplomats are getting a shot now. How is Mrs Hermans going to explain this to those vulnerable groups who are at high risk and who are taking care of the burden in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u18	It's about small groups, for example top athletes who have been for a year... Well, the Olympics were postponed and they can now happily, as it looks, all continue this summer. That can only be safe if they are vaccinated, just like their fellow athletes. It is a small group that are fighting for medals for our country, for the Dutch pride. I can explain that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u19	We have indeed talked about the top athletes, but you can also add a group of diplomats. Who knows what news we'll get in the next few weeks that small groups are getting promoted over and over again, while Mrs Hermans just said that it's important that we vaccinate those vulnerable people. So she's actually saying, for small groups, even though we've agreed on a vaccination strategy, you might as well make exceptions. The explanation is, if I am not mistaken: yes, they are small groups, that is not so bad. Outside on the Square there is also a very small group to demonstrate. Does that relate to each other, in your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u20	Now some words are being put in my mouth that I have not said so. I think it is of the utmost importance that we give and protect people with vulnerable health and those who work in care as quickly as possible, because they have to take care of the people who end up in hospital with corona. And besides, all those people over 60 for whom the risk of corona is extra high. Then there are always groups playing in between that one time for good reasons and the other time for less good reasons make a request to get priority. We will always have to consider this, but the core is protecting vulnerable people and the people who work in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u21	But that's exactly the point, I think. The core is to protect those vulnerable groups. That means you can only make one shot once. Then why does the VVD agree that every time small groups are pulled out again and again? You can't explain that, can you? That's just weird, right? We want to protect vulnerable people, don't we? We can't have a policy like this, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u22	When I took a look at the vaccination dashboard this morning, I noticed that every five seconds a shot is made. I hear from Minister De Jonge that it's even every half-second. So it's going even faster. There's a lot of pricking every day. It concerns a lot of vulnerable people, people who work in care, people who are 60-plus. I think we should continue with that. I have a whole list of questions about this, which I would like to ask the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u23	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u24	Mr. Chairman. As I said, there are many questions about vaccination, including my group. What lessons have we learned so far about vaccination and how do we apply it in practice? What do we learn from the situation with Astra before what we see happening to Janssen now? Why is the cabinet already stopping Janssen, while the EEA says, "Do you want to go through with it?" Is the Minister already working on a scenario to deal with possible setbacks with Janssen, especially for hospital staff? Could the Health Council's advice to postpone the second shot be part of such a scenario? Are we keeping the minimum stock? What do we do about vaccines that are left over? How exactly does it work with those spare lists? I have already said a few things about this at the time of the interruption, but my questions are clear. When the moment comes when we have vaccines to spare, are we ready to prick through at night if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u25	I'd like you to finish your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u26	These were my questions about vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u27	Then Mr Paternotte of D66 has good timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u28	Mrs Hermans has, of course, already mentioned the reserve lists. She thinks it is very important that no vaccine ends up in the wastebasket. We shouldn't want to go through that with each other. Now we have the directive that under 60 people should not be vaccinated with AstraZeneca. We will quickly reach the situation where all 60-plusers have been offered a vaccine and risk groups have been vaccinated. If there are astraZeneca vaccines left at the end of the day, what are we supposed to do if we can't find 60-plussers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u29	The 60-plus group that still needs to be vaccinated is large. I really think that over the next few weeks, we should do everything we can to vaccinate that group with those deliveries of Astra that are coming in and hopefully continue to arrive stable. That's really gotta be all about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u30	I agree entirely with Mrs Hermans, but Mr Van Delden said this morning during the briefing that he had already spoken to general practitioners who are poking 68-year-olds with Astra. 70-year-olds aren't gonna prick these doctors; they're gonna get Pfizer. In other words, that GP gets to the point pretty soon that he's in the fridge that Astra has. That's probably happening before the end of May. My group believes that at that time, people under 60 who suffer from underlying illness or chronic illness should not say that they want that shot because it is their turn to deny it. I am curious to see how Mrs Hermans, as a member of the Liberal Group, looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u31	I can very well imagine that in a few weeks' time, when that 60-plus group has been vaccinated, we are going to see what we are doing with the vaccines that are left over. But today, April 15th, there's still so much to do in that 60-plus group that before we've all reached it and picked it up at the end of the day, we'll be a while further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u33	Mr. Chairman. In addition to vaccination, access tests are also a route to our normal lives. I would like to know from the Minister why nothing was said about the finances of the Open Netherlands Foundation in the letter of 23 February. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the health bonus. I've seen the options the Minister is setting out, and I understand the dilemma. The question is: how do we distribute the money as honestly as possible? In order to make a proper assessment, I have two questions. If we chose to allow all employees in the health and well-being sector to benefit from this option up to a maximum of two modes, who would and would not be covered by it? I would like to ask the Minister what, considering everything, she prefers. Mr. Chairman. I said it during the previous debate. It is precisely now that we must not abandon entrepreneurs. We need to pull together as many entrepreneurs as possible over the finish line and, when we get there, we need to get our economy back on track quickly. Therefore, we should not suddenly phase out aid by 1 July. The handling of the aid packages must be administratively simple and the recovery also requires support. Are these still the starting points for the cabinet? Is the open plan discussed with entrepreneurs, so that it will be workable for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u34	Maybe it's okay to finish your story first, then I'll allow for interruptions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u35	"I'm finishing" I was going to say, Mr. Chairman. My group would like everyone in this country to have more, but unfortunately we are still holding out. And hopefully there will be more in the next few weeks. For the next few months, I'll be able to do that, and in October, I'll be celebrating my nephew's one-and-a-half birthday with the whole family. I look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u36	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u37	Mrs Hermans, in my opinion, got over it a little quickly, because of course there is something going on. The cabinet intends to allocate EUR 1 billion for commercial fun tests in order to make things possible again. At the same time, it seems somewhere in the same ministry that this bonus for those caregivers, who have promised €500 that we caregivers, is still a little too expensive! Doesn't Mrs Hermans find it very embarrassing and a blow to the face of all those care workers that, in the same ministry in the same week, it is decided, on the one hand, to give 1 billion to the business community for commercial fun tests and, on the other hand, that the bonus for the caregivers will really be too expensive?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u38	I think there are two things that are unfairly opposed to each other here. We have the access tests, which besides vaccination hopefully will help us all in this country to get back to normal life as much as possible, to go to the cinema, to go to a festival and to get to work. Those are all those things that belong to normal life. In addition, in 2020, and again in 2021, we decided to pay out a healthcare bonus to healthcare staff. I think that's right. I think that is quite right, because we have worked very hard, both in the first and second peaks. Now we have seen in the distribution of the first bonus what a complicated administrative task that is. We want to distribute that second bonus as fairly as possible, and that is the dilemma that the Minister outlines in the letter. I understand that dilemma, because how do you divide it in an honest way? I say then: divide the available money over that very large sector, so that anyone who has contributed in any way over the past year will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u39	"So that every healthcare provider benefits from it," but that will not be the promised €500, whereas that is what the healthcare providers have been promised. That bonus would be €500 and now you say: we have to split the amount. Or do you think that means that all caregivers should just get the €500?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u40	I believe that the available budget should be distributed as fairly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u41	This is bad! We all know very well that we have applauded those caregivers and we now see that they are there again. This was promised to them by the Cabinet. They are still waiting for that structural salary increase, even though a majority of the Chamber wants it, because they still haven't got it. The cabinet simply doesn't want to carry out that wish. But that €500 health bonus was promised and even about that €500 the VVD says: no, that's too expensive. We can spend up to 1 billion euros on fun tests to get back to the casino immediately or I know what to do, but when it comes to our promise to the healthcare providers, who are standing before us all now, to give them a bonus of €500, the VVD doesn't give them at home. I'm sorry, but I think it's really shameless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u42	Finally, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u43	I think it's really wrong to put those two things against each other like that. Opening society is a very important path for all of us. We have to go through that and on the other hand there is the appreciation for the caregivers. I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen that we must show our appreciation. We do that in this case with money, but of course we can do that in many other ways. We did that last year with a bonus of €1,000, and that is what we are doing with the amount that has been made available for this purpose. The question now is how we are going to distribute that amount as fairly as possible. I can then imagine that we are going for the option of dividing it between all the people working in the health and well-being sector. Mrs Marijnissen is right that the amount is therefore slightly lower than the amounts mentioned earlier. That is a consequence, but I choose to distribute it as fairly as possible to everyone who has contributed over the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u44	There is another interruption by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u45	I thought, "Is the VVD still going to be on the entrepreneurs?" And thankfully, at the end you came back to the entrepreneurs. That's good, because there's a lot going on there. They're having a hard time and the message I got last night was very disappointing. Large retail companies such as Blokker and Scapino still receive only a few hundred euros per store. They can't keep things running. The water really is up to them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Does Mrs Hermans agree with me that a solution really has to be found for this, and not that cloth for the bleeding that is now coming from EZK? Does she agree that, if that solution is not reached, it should simply become a chefsache and that the Prime Minister should intervene in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u46	I have just said a number of things about entrepreneurs, because they are incredibly difficult. Last week's cabinet's decision not to open terraces and shops is, of course, once again a huge disappointment to them. That is why I welcome the fact that the cabinet has already announced at the previous press conference: we are going to look again at support and support for now, on the way to the end of that crisis, but also for the next phase. It should include all entrepreneurs and all types of shops and consider what is needed for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u47	So I can conclude from this that Mrs Hermans says: for the group of large retailers, who are now simply unable to pay their people with a very small tip, can no longer afford the supplies, there must be a solution to this. That's what Mrs Hermans says, if I hear it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u48	These are also entrepreneurs in our country, entrepreneurs who have been looking at closed doors for over a year cannot undertake the way they want to. I am not going to take words like "little tip" in my mouth, but I think that the cabinet in the upcoming package should also pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u49	I would point out to Mrs Hermans that we really need to find a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u50	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66 for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u51	Mr. Chairman. I've been spokesperson Corona for a week. I followed the chairman. Then a week is quite a long time. It's like a roller coaster sometimes. Three new advices from the Health Council and the OMT, half a shot stop, a new vaccine, but also a needle stop, and a new vaccination strategy. A strategy that's starting to buzz me again. That is what I want to talk about today. Mr. Chairman. First, on the extension of the measures. Let me be clear immediately: with 2,500 corona patients in the hospital, I support the pass on the spot. It is a good thing that higher education and extracurricular care are reopening and D66 hopes that the other measures can be quickly lifted and that the curfew will be first and foremost, but also the closing of the terraces, provided that this can be safely and responsibly done. However, I understand that it is still too early. Caregivers walk on their gums and D66 likes to see a fair bonus for them. Whatever needs is rest in the tent. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to reflect on the image we have just heard, that the corona policy sails from hope to disappointment. Certainly entrepreneurs had the champagne corks popping, but this week they had to deal with a huge disappointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u52	I see an interruption by Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u53	Mr Paternotte is right to talk about the enormous commitment of the care staff for all of us, and they have been doing so for a very long time. He also thinks there should be an honest bonus. Does he agree that there should be a fair bonus for all the people in the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u54	That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister, and I would be happy to put them now, or at least some of them. I think you have also seen, for example, the letter from the Dutch Disability Association, which would not really be included in the options. For them, the health bonus would not apply, while I think: if you look at disability care, but also at youth care, then you might as well ask yourself whether they have not been for additional efforts at this time of Corona. Another thing we are concerned about is if you set the limit at one and a half modes, which is the case in one of the options. If you look at ICU nurses over 55, they're above that limit of $4,500 gross. I do not know whether, for example, the overtime allowance, which they receive very often, is part of this. But it seems difficult to imagine that, for example, ic nurses would be excluded from that bonus. That is a question I would also like to ask the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u55	Like Mrs Hermans, Mr Paternotte has many questions, but it is also for a Member of Parliament to have opinions. So what does Mr Paternotte think? Does he agree with me that all those who work in the care sector should be given a bonus, because they all have to deal with it, including those in the disability care sector, and not be given half a tip and not even a clapping from this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u56	I think last year's lesson was... back then, it was the idea that you want to give that bonus to the employees who made extra efforts, who have had a very hard time in this corona time. At that time, many health care institutions said that it was very difficult for them to do so in a good way, and there were also considerable differences in the impact. I get that, because last year, we were very acute in that crisis, in that pandemic. We're still in it now, but it's been over a year. I therefore ask myself whether it is necessary to answer that question if it is not possible for those health care institutions to see who is actually looking for that bonus. For I think you also know people who have had an incredible amount of overtime, but also people who have been told that they had to work a little less for the time being because of delayed care. Would it not therefore be possible to ensure that this bonus is actually used, with support from the field, for the people for whom it is intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u57	Your last question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u58	I like to spend it on the health bonus for the people who work so hard for all of us. Mr Paternotte is making things very complicated again: it has to be done in consultation with the field and it is true for some, some not. There is a simple solution that meets what we all want to do for the people in care: give them all a bonus. Cut by 1.1 billion into a black hole of field labs and pilot tests where we have no idea where it's going, and make sure money goes to the bonus for all the people in the care. My question to Mr Paternotte is: just say yes to that. Then we can make a motion, then the House of Representatives can adopt it by a majority and then we've settled it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u59	I think you're taking a wrong turn right now. Yeah, we stand for that bonus. That is why we fought for this last year and why, in my view, with the support of the Labour Party, a budget has been established to make that bonus possible. Now, of course, it has to be applied, but by contrasting these tests... Those tests are meant to ensure that a lot of things in society can be opened up sooner, so that people can also get to work. Many people are at home now and cannot do their job because of the pandemic, because shops, festivals, cinemas and many places are now closed. That's what these tests are for. To then pretend that money is in a black hole... I also have some critical questions about how that money is spent and how it is organized. I think we'll all have it. But I do not think that you should turn these two things against each other, because the sooner things are possible in the Netherlands, people can just do their jobs and have a paid job, the better. That is also very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u60	You said your last, Mrs Ploumen, but if you would just briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u61	I'm not asking a question anymore, but I'm drawing a conclusion. I am simply repeating it to Mrs Marijnissen: the 1.1 billion is earmarked so that people can go back to a casino. Let's just spend that money for a bonus for people in care. They deserved it. Then we also know that it ends well. We have to wait and see with the Minister's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u62	Thank you. Mr Paternotte continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u63	That bonus must be provided, but I find it a pity that the Labour Party does not want us to be able to open up society faster with tests, and by making them free of charge. Because if you say that people who have to pay for themselves may be able to open things up sooner in society, but that is especially for people who can pay for such a test. That is not the way we would like to reopen society in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u64	I can also imagine that D66 has a list of priorities for reopening. Would you choose, for example, to open casinos and festivals, or to open higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u65	Higher education will open on 26 April. At first, there was the suggestion that that would not work. I'm very glad it's been taken away now. Let's be; that's for one day a week. I'm really glad those students, to make that possible, get that self-test for free. That's why I'm so sorry that Mrs Ploumen just said she was there... Well, at least she said she's not getting excited about that right now. If you made those students pay for that, it would be even more difficult to get people tested in those lecture halls, while for those students they have been at home for a year. I've called it "eat, sleep, zoom and start over."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u66	I share that concern with Mr Paternotte. But it's about opening colleges for one day a week. Would you be in favour, for example, of using over 1 billion to open colleges a little longer than that one day a week, so that we spend the resources on them, rather than on festivals and all kinds of prethobbys I don't know who?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u67	I think that is also the way forward. In it there are opportunities to do more. Students I speak to, I'm sure you'll also talk to them. I'm happy if I can at least get back to college or college once in a while. It was almost permanent home for a lot of students in the last year. And they think it is very important that they have the assurance that the introductory week and the start of the academic year next year can start completely again. But, yes, that depends on how fast we can vaccinate. I'd like to talk to you about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u68	I'd still like to get through this. It has just been said that EUR 1 billion has been reserved, or is actually already going to those commercial fun tests. Then it hurts, I think, that even some of D66 students get to hear: be happy with the one day you were allowed to go to higher education. If we now apparently have so much test capacity that we even think "we're going to experiment with how to get back to the casino safely," would we not say at first: will we make sure that our youth can just go back to school all week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u69	Let's ask that question together. You can now see that students get those self-tests and that it is of course voluntary whether they use them. It allows them to go to classes one day a week. If that goes well, I would say: let's scale it up as quickly as possible. I do indeed think that these students would prefer to go to school all week, as I think the high school students would prefer to go to school all week. Only, I understand it's step by step right now, with 2,500 corona patients in the hospitals. I find that incredibly annoying. I think the way to get out of there really early is to vaccinate faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u70	I very much agree with Mr Paternotte on that last point, but unfortunately this is not yet working in the way we would like it to be. But do I therefore understand that Mr Paternotte also says: if we can use these tests to ensure that young people can go back to school all week, rather than that lousy one day a week, then of course it is definitely preferable to use them for commercial activities? So that's what we're gonna do first? So I get that, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u71	I think a very large part of that amount, a lot of money, is needed for these quick tests for students. I think it would be a good idea for that to be clarified in a moment. But, yes, it also makes sense to me that the largest amount of that goes to those students. Indeed, they have often been at home continuously for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u72	Mrs Ploumen has told me that she does not have a question, but has something to say very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u73	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out, also for the Acts, that Mr Paternotte has misread my words. He can do that, but I would advise him to listen better next time. So it says in the Acts that his summary is not my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u74	This is in the Acts. I would ask Mr Paternotte to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u75	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. But I heard Mrs Ploumen say she didn't want the whole 1.1 billion to go to tests. I think it has an impact on students, too. That's why I put it, but I'm sure she'll make that clear herself in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u76	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u77	I would like to ask questions about the 1.1 billion, because we want to test and vaccinate much more quickly so that there is more freedom. In fact, I think these questions are quite important to the VWS Minister, so I will wait until he has spoken. This way our society can be safe and responsible from the lock. In the case of access tests, I also understand that it must be done quickly, but I would like to know from the Minister whether the money is being spent transparently. What about the 925 million reserved for this? When can he make it clear exactly how it is being deployed, whether it is being monitored and whether we are not at risk of the money not being used properly? Mr. Chairman. The only real way out of this crisis is to vaccinate quickly. As far as I am concerned, that is the subject of this debate. Then the step-by-step plan is quite simple: 1. Vaccinate, 2. Vaccinate and 3. Vaccinate. Then it doesn't help if we have four vaccines, you lock one of them up, Janssen, and another one isn't allowed for 60-minners. The decision not to allow AstraZeneca anymore for 60-minners led to a lot of reactions. I also get phones and e-mails from people who say: I have severe asthma and I've been home for months. Or, "I'm 55 and I'm overweight. The side effects are there, but they're still very rare. Why is my GP being forced to call me off? Why can't I choose for myself?" I'll keep looking. If there comes a time when AstraZeneca is left after the 60-plussers have gotten that chance, then give 60-minners the choice to get accelerated vaccination. Tell them about the vaccine and any alternatives. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. Let's also keep our heads down, make a real risk assessment, along with the doctor. The same applies to Janssen as far as we are concerned. The EEA provides a review next week, but already says: the benefits are now gaining from the disadvantages. France will prick the vaccine away in the next few days. The Netherlands keeps it in the fridge. Why, I ask the Minister. What if care workers want it now? Mr. Chairman. What also surprised me is that the cabinet doesn't want to postpone the second shot at Pfizer and Moderna despite the consideration of the Health Council. If I understand the letter correctly, the Minister actually says "this could have helped, but we are now too late to implement that one-prick strategy," whereas this strategy was successful in other countries, especially in the United Kingdom. The Minister also states that he is not prepared to oppose the current arrangements for the second injection. Why not? I'll ask him. Does he still want to think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u78	Two questions, if you don't mind. The first is about AstraZeneca for people under 60. The D66 colleague says: why should people not be able to choose for themselves if they want to? I can go along with that, but that should apply to the people over 60 who don't want Astra. I also get a lot of e-mails, including from people over 60. They say: I have a disease, I have asthma or I have a blood clotting disease; at least I have reason not to trust what I read anymore. Do you agree with me that the people over 60, whom we already know 40% of AstraZeneca no longer wants according to some polls, should have the opportunity to choose something else? So under 60 free choice, but also over 60 free choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u79	I do want us to continue to share the confidence in science here. I understand your question very well, but let us be. The Health Council and Health Councils in other countries make it very clear that there are almost or at all no examples above 60 that this side effect has been detected, despite the fact that tens of millions of astraZeneca shots have been made. There is therefore no reason to say that you would not offer it to 60-plussers; it is a very good and completely safe vaccine for them. We now have a situation of scarcity. If you let people choose then that could mean that vaccination is delayed for everyone. Then it gets harder to get out of the pandemic with each other. So it would be a good thing if you and I did that in my opinion last year in all those corona debates, you at least; this is my first debate.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u80	In my view, it is liberals who are at the top of their agenda that people should be able to choose, so I do not see what the fundamental objection is when people choose. Again, I understand what you're saying when you look at the advice: over 60 is something different than under 60. The fact remains that a lot of people don't trust it anymore. Then we can all come up with nice reports, but if people don't trust it anymore, they won't, even though we want each other to have the group between 60 and 70, which is now mainly occupied by the ic's, pricked with priority. If it turns out that in spite of your appeal or that of the minister, people say to a large extent 'I don't trust it anymore', then we have an interest in giving them an alternative. Are you then prepared to give the people who do not want to do it, even though you say "do it," the opportunity to choose something else, because it is more important that they are all, if they want to, voluntarily pricked?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u81	For the record, I believe that you and I agree that everyone should always be able to say 'I do not want that vaccine' and that you should have the freedom to choose whether or not you are being pricked, that there is freedom of choice. If you're saying you don't want that AstraZenecaprik, that means at this point you're only going a lot later. That is indeed the alternative you have. I think you're asking if you can't give those people all that alternative right now and let them decide for themselves what vaccine they're getting. I would like that, too, but at the moment we still have a shortage of vaccines. There's scarcity. The Health Council, the EEA and the Food and Drug Administration, all the authorities that deal with it, have found that above 60 that vaccine is perfectly safe. Then I say that at the moment we cannot create the possibility that everyone can choose from it, as an à la carte nu. I hope that in a few months' time we will find ourselves in a situation where we can. In the meantime, I think we should set a good example and radiate here that we have confidence in science and that people can take that vaccine. Because if the vaccination will really stay 40%, of course we will not get out with each other soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u82	The vaccination readiness is 60%. 40% doesn't want it. So it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u83	I saw yesterday's I&D poll, but there are other investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u84	Maybe it's deteriorated even further than that, but okay. Mr President, my final question. When you, President, were still a simple MP, you tabled a motion with me that said that the interval between those shots could be a longer period and that there should be an additional opinion from the Health Council. That advice has now been given. The Health Council considers that this is possible and the Minister says that he is going to think about it again. Do you agree with me, Mr Paternotte, that is also related to my first question, about the people over 60 who may not want AstraZeneca anymore and anyway about the group between 60 and 70..................................................................................................................................................................................................... Perhaps then there should indeed be a number of agreements between people who already have a second agreement, and I think there should be a lot of cancellations, more than 1 million. But if we do that, if we cancel those 1.4 million agreements, we will have more room to give more first shots to people, who we know often already lead to 80% effectiveness. Pfizer: one shot at 80% effectiveness. Then we can do a lot more: not only the group I just mentioned, but also those sixties and seventys, which are now mainly on the ice. Do you agree with me that, bearing in mind the motion by the President and the undersigned, we should simply decide that we should not start thinking, but that we should simply do so? Do I have D66 on my side if I made a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u85	The advantage is that this is a minute of my speaking time which Mr Wilders has now almost literally read out. I do have that question for the Minister. If the Health Council says you can save one to five hospitalizations a day, it's probably the conclusion that that can save lives. And why wouldn't you? That is the question I would like to ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There is also one other point about vaccination. It was just about the GGD Limburg-Noord. There are also GGDs that were already working to see if you can't make arrangements with schools to give them what's left at the end of the day. I also speak to a lot of teachers who say that my school has been infected again, that I am facing 30 students every day, 30 adolescents, and why are we not doing it for now or for a long time? I can imagine you'd want to give GDs that space. What if you didn't want to do that? I was at a GGD location last Monday where they were actually pretty much through the entire workforce. We also want to accelerate the pricking of people in the care sector. So you get to the point that there is surplus every day.We're also going to scale up, so that's just going to be more... but that there are no GGDs, caregivers to call up just as quickly to prick them. My question is why, in consultation with the general practitioners, you would not give the GGD the freedom to consider the matter. Finally, Mr President. This was my first week as a corona spokesperson. I've been pretty surprised and amazed at a lot of things, but I've also talked to a lot of people working hard to get us all out of this crisis. A lot of people have been doing that for over a year. For all those people who have been as good and as angry as they are about all the corona measures for over a year: let us make sure that the policy of this crisis is no longer one of many loops in that roller coaster, but a very clear straight line towards a way out of this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u86	Thank you. There is still an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen. Go ahead. It is also your last question, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u87	It's a good thing you're pointing this out, Mr. President. It's about the use of the outer space. We heard Van Dissel. He pointed to investigations. He says the risk of infection in outer space is 18 times smaller than inside. We are now in the very strange situation that people in unfortunately sometimes overcrowded trains have to go to work. There are even traffic jams on the road again. We just talked about the commercial fun tests for the casinos. At the same time we still have a curfew, people are not allowed out at night. Doesn't D66 agree that it's starting to get worse anyway and that it just can't go on anymore? At the same time, as soon as the weather gets better, people will go out. If you live spaciously in a house with a garden, it may still be possible to do so, but if you're sitting with your family in an apartment three high and it gets a little nice weather, then you'll go outside. Doesn't D66 think it would be much wiser to use and regulate that outdoor space instead of banning it, as the cabinet is doing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u88	I myself was one of those students who lived at 8 m in Amsterdam Nieuw-West, and a little later at 16 m, but still: then you go outside, indeed. And yeah, that's definitely starting to pinch. Mr Van Dissel said that there is 18 times less chance of infection in outer space. Irish research suggested more than 1,000 times less chance. That's also what was in a Chinese investigation before. Much smaller odds, indeed. What also strikes me is that you often hear that it is better to open the terraces and parks regulated, not only from the mayors of the big cities, but also from the healthcare sector, for example from hospital directors. At the same time, you do not hear that from many other angles and is mainly the signal from the care and from the experts and the OMT that it is not possible at the moment. What I find very regrettable is that there has not been a better investigation into what it would mean before. It is said that the movements on the way to terraces, including in public transport, which you rightly call, lead to more risks. Is that right? Or is the advantage of spreading and regulating in the big cities perhaps greater? I regret that we do not have a clear answer to that, because that would greatly help us to make the choices. Indeed, I fully agree with you that it is pinching, especially in the case of young people in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u89	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u90	Thank you, Mr President. On 21 April the terraces and shops would finally open again, the visitation scheme would be abolished or extended at home and that terrible curfew would disappear. Citizens and businesses, from catering to retailing, could not wait for more freedom and the abolition of these compelling and often pointless rules. But that party's off. We've been fooled by this cabinet again. Apart from the extracurricular care, nothing will be relaxed from next week. The Netherlands therefore again pays the price of the total incompetence of Rutte and De Jonge. We could have had our freedom back a long time ago. If the cabinet had provided more vaccines. If we'd followed the one-prick strategy right away. If we'd had more ic-capacity. If we had vaccinated the people over 70 and those under 70 with an increased risk, together with 3 million people, voluntarily. The ICUs would have been empty by now. We also know that after one shot, hospitalizations are already prevented. One shot is enough to prevent hospitalizations. Pfizer already has 80% effectiveness after one shot. A score the minister can only dream of. So you should have done that and do it anyway: one shot. If we had done that right away, the entire catering industry, including terraces, would have been open by now, just like in London, New York and Tel Aviv. The solariums, swimming pools and gyms would have been open by then. Then the preparations for King's Day and the King's Games were already in full swing. In short, everything would have been back to normal. But no, we, here in the Netherlands, are still trapped in suffocating and disproportionate rules. I pointed out several times that studies show that the risk of contamination with corona in the outdoor air is almost zero. Once again, there is research by the Irish RIVM that speaks of a risk of contamination in the outdoor air of only 0.1%. Last year we saw an investigation from China that showed that only 1 in 7,000 people were infected in the outdoors. Yet here in the Netherlands we live in a half police state where outside all kinds of rules apply, you can get fines and a curfew limits our freedom to go outside. I want all these bullshit rules lifted now and the shops and the catering industry reopened. That can also, responsibly, without leading to more infections. The sectors themselves have fantastic and responsible protocols for this. Mr. Chairman. Because we have not immediately started the voluntary vaccination of people with a medical condition, we still have the ic occupation and the first regular patients again have to deal with the scaling-down of their hospital care. Open-heart surgery, kidney transplants, oncological care; it's all canceled again. That is outrageous and unnecessary. There is unnecessary suffering because the pricking of the right group of people, the people on the ic, the population of people who may be on the ic has not started. That's unbelievable. It is also unbelievable that for a year there has not been an extra cent of structural investment in healthcare. While up to 1 billion is spent on the Open Netherlands Foundation, which messes us into the test society, there is no investment in additional and better paid care staff, for which we have such a shortage. With us, everything that can go wrong goes wrong. The Netherlands is the loser of Europe. The question is, when is this misery gonna end? Minister De Jonge should of course have made sure that we had alternatives if something went wrong with a vaccine, like now with AstraZeneca and Janssen. How many times have I asked: why wasn't Sputnik purchased, as Bavaria, for example? Or why wasn't more Pfizer bought? It's nice that 2 million extra Pfizer vaccines are coming our way, but that's not until the end of June. Why didn't you make sure we already have more of those vaccines? Why can't other countries do that, and why can't you? I ask the Minister of Health. 40% of the 60-plussers now say they don't want AstraZeneca anymore. What alternative does the cabinet have for these people? Can they also get Pfizer if we give everyone one shot from tomorrow, as happens in many other countries? Mr President, I see that I have to finish. Finally, the health bonus. What a filthy thing! The minister of medical care says he has a dilemma. Well, we don't have that dilemma. Cut the greed and give everyone the $500. And if that costs too much, you'll only give a year less money to Africa, Italy or Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands craves a society without corona and without corona measures. If you see what the SCP writes, but also if you read the socio-economic and social analysis of Social Affairs, Economic Affairs and Finance in the letter, you will see the damage. Education deficits and inequality of opportunity are increasing. There are adverse effects on health due to insufficient movement. The vitality of the inner cities is damaged by the closure of retail outlets, and entrepreneurs are on the verge of doing so. In the accumulation of delay, price changes and setbacks, the greatest optimist has slowly moved down a spiral of scepticism. It is perhaps the proverbial roller coaster that Mr Paternotte had to deal with last week, which many Dutch feel. Many people do not even dare to be optimistic anymore, whereas when you see the steps of the cabinet, there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Only, people still dare to believe that, especially when you're looking at the numbers of this moment? The number of infections is high. The pressure on the hospitals and the ICUs is even much higher than a few weeks ago. In this context, I think it is justifiable for the cabinet to say: we are not going to relax now; we are going to look at developments in the coming weeks and we are going to look at them again in a week's time. Mr. Chairman. Then the rate of vaccination and the rare but serious side effects observed in at least one but possibly two vaccines. There are a lot of questions and there is a lot of uncertainty. In the past week you saw a growing concern in all places about staying behind the pace: we would be on the wrong side of the states. But last Tuesday the cabinet sent a letter showing that because of reduced spilling, supplies that are much less large than was assumed and by updating the administration around AstraZeneca we are much further than everyone thought for a week. Meanwhile, we're at a rate of 650,000 pricks in a week. I think there's been 4 million shots up to today. If the figures are so much better than everyone else assumes, why can't they be clear before then, also in view of the much unrest and concern that arises? Because noise in itself also affects the spiral down, which I was just talking about. Why can't that become clear sooner? Can the Minister explain that? Then the rare but also very serious side effects seen around AstraZeneca. That, of course, also causes a lot of unrest. I have a question about the Janssen vaccine. At what time is there more clarity as to how serious its side effects are? Because that seems a lot less so far than with Astra, also in numbers. Still, America's quitting. Is there more to it or isn't there more to it? When are we gonna hear this? Because stopping Janssen can have a huge effect, especially in the coming months, because we get 3 million of it. That is still separate from the fact that there will be 2 million extra from Pfizer. I do not think that is in the figures at the moment, which can increase speed. Much has been said so far about the GGD North Limburg. I believe that this is more Mr Wilders' Limburg than Mrs Ploumen's Limburg. I have to say, I'm surprised at the news about this. The letter says that if there is surplus, general practitioners are particularly affected by the fact that they are vulnerable. But now it seems to be said to the GGD: no, it should not; it should not go to vulnerable people, but only to GGD staff and hospital staff. I would like to know exactly what the GGD North Limburg has done, because it was said this morning in the technical briefing that they had done nothing wrong. But why do they have to quit? There are so many vulnerable people, such as obese people, who will soon be brought to the GPS by the general practitioners, but who would not be able to do so now because it is not clear. That's weird. You can put them in a system, so the G.D.D.s are gonna prick these people. That is part of the solution that has been found for the fact that they are no longer pricked with Astra. But it wouldn't be possible with the surplus. I find that strange, so I would like an explanation of that. I am inclined to agree with Mrs Ploumen that that space must be there. I am not going to say definitively that it is, because I want to wait for the answer, but the story surprises me. Then the outer space. I've been with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u93	There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u94	I know Mr Heerma as a fan of sovereignty in his own circle and of the principle of subsidiarity. I hear you saying: I think that space should be there. Does that mean that you are actually saying that the health services and the general practitioners should be able to make a joint assessment? Or are you in favour of a national directive where you say: you have to give the surplus to vulnerable people? I'd be leaning towards the first one, leaving space open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u95	I hope that Mr Paternotte will forgive me for remaining guilty of the answer to this question until my second term, because I do not have enough clarity as to what exactly happened to answer the question properly. I have also had signals that the GGDs did not do what they did in North Limburg, pending a new directive. If we are all to say that those vulnerable must be protected, then those who do not want to have a very good reason for not wanting to. So I am in favour of sovereignty in my own circle, but it depends on the Minister's answer whether I think North Limburg can do it alone, or whether that space should go everywhere. If you're saying "we want to protect those vulnerable people," I'm not going to say that that doesn't apply to GGD staff and hospital staff. I'm leaning towards that answer. I like the story... But I may be missing something. I have mainly read the documents in the media and heard the answer this morning in the technical briefing. That led me to believe that it is wise to allow and start doing this with all the GGDs. That will always have to be done in conjunction with general practitioners, but I will wait for the Minister's answer in the first term. But I don't understand exactly what happened here. Mr President, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u96	There is an interruption by Mr Wilders first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u97	It's about time. It's kind of a tradition after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u98	Especially when it comes to North Limburg. But again, I can tell you what happened. There is a new directive and that new directive does not include the possibility of giving it to vulnerable people. The Minister will correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that's the way it is. So there is a new directive; I see the Minister nodding yes. That directive does not include the possibility of targeting vulnerable people. The only thing I would like to ask is: take that into account, so that those GGDs in the regions at least have the space to give it to those people when they need it or if they want it and choose it. They have to be able to decide for themselves. Now it's out of the question and I'd like them to be able to decide for themselves. We are waiting for the answers from the cabinet, but can you agree with the line that they decide for themselves, but that vulnerable people are not excluded at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u99	Mr Wilders has a very creative way of incorporating the Minister's first term into his own question. That's where you can see his experience in this house. I believe that Mr Wilders is not saying anything different than what I just said. So it may be that I misunderstand, but at the moment it seems that the GGD North Limburg is no longer allowed, because it has been decided that it is only allowed to go to the GGD staff and the hospital staff, while they did it earlier there. I read a piece of paper, but again, I think that was Mrs Ploumen's tweet saying: it does not happen because it cannot be registered properly because of its uniformity. At the same time, we see that the data of people with obesity and Down syndrome are supplied to the GGD via the GGD. So it can be done in an official system, but it would not be possible with the surplus. So I'd like to wait and see the answer, but I tend to say: to avoid spilling, it seems odd to exclude these groups from the surplus. Let us be glad that the technical briefing this morning shows that it is much smaller numbers, but it does add up to 1,000 pricks a week. I'd like to be convinced that something very sensible has been done. Then we can disagree in the second term, but my tendency is now to say, in line with what Mrs Ploumen said this morning, that this is weird and that I do not understand why this was chosen. If in general practitioners the standard is right to use the surplus for vulnerable people, that's even in the letter: those people get the surplus because of their vulnerability. Then I'll go to the outside room. At the end of February I tabled a motion with Mr Dijkhoff asking the cabinet to discuss with the Royal Horeca Netherlands how terraces can be safely opened. I would like to hear what the outcome of this consultation has been and how things stand, because the discussion is still going on. It was just about nice weather. I still feel that in large cities, in which the houses are small, Mr Paternotte has just indicated how small he lives, and in which many urban greens have disappeared in recent years, there is a problem with the distribution. Can't the catering industry, the terraces or pop-uphoreca in certain places lead to a better distribution of people rather than just sitting in the Vondelpark together, which we've seen a lot of images of? It may also be that the problem in large cities is really different from that in other cities, because I have also heard the mayors of other cities say: please don't do it. But then the mayors of these big cities must be able to be helped to spread it better there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u100	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP. Oh, there's another interruption. Mr. Heerma, could you please come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u101	He did it on purpose this late, didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u102	I think so. We'll never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u103	Always that Stoffer. It's good to have movement. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u104	Sure. Mr. Heerma is just too fast for me, I see. So I guess I'm gonna have to go back to the gym a little bit. I liked that Mr. Heerma locked up with the outer space. I understand from the Prime Minister last week that we may be able to get back on the terrace on 28 April; I have, of course, looked at that. That's actually a really nasty date. I got a call yesterday from a mayor of a medium-sized city, who asked whether this could not be done on 27 April, because it would avoid a lot of problems and because it would also make it a bit of a party for entrepreneurs. So actually my question is how Mr Heerma looks at it: could it be on the 27th, on King's Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u105	Let me start by saying that we have to look at the development of the virus. That's also at the bottom of the roadmap. I will start with that, but I also hope that these steps can be taken. By the way, I got a call from a mayor who said: pay attention to King's Day, because if everything is focused on that, it may become untenable. So that was precisely a concern: beware, King's Day can become unenforceable. But I understand Mr Stoffer's question. I am not going to say that I think it should be done, but I think it is a legitimate question: if it can be done, will it be considered whether a day could be wise? He will also put that question to the cabinet in his term. But I also got signals the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u106	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u107	Mr Heerma is a lot bigger than me. That's what I'm facing right now. This is better. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet breaks one promise after another. We've heard the promises about when we'd all be tested, about when we'd start vaccinating, about the curfew, which would go off first, the promise to the caregivers about a bonus of €500, which is now being broken. We all remember the Prime Minister's promise just before the elections: yes, something must happen at Easter, because we cannot do this anymore. The elections weren't over and the promise was broken again. That's not good. That is not good for confidence, because we are sitting here with a outgoing cabinet and a outgoing Prime Minister, who has meanwhile lost the confidence of the entire opposition here in this House of Representatives, who is breaking promises at the same time and sitting in a cabinet with ministers who feel superior to the people. One goes in sports, the other throws a wedding party. These are all things that ordinary Dutch people don't like. That feeds cynicism, and this is causing less and less support for the measures. That is what we are concerned about, especially when you see that the strategy of this cabinet is not really for anyone anymore and that it is precisely the way out of this crisis, namely vaccination, that does not go as it should. I also agree with all the questions that have been asked about vaccination at the GGD Noord-Limburg. But in the case of vaccination, the big question is: why is it so slow? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the contradictions. They're getting bigger and bigger. The cabinet magnifies those contradictions. The fact is that if you have the opportunity to work at home, it is generally a bit safer than when you have a crucial job and you are just at risk at work. If you also have to get on a full train to go to work... We have people who have been sitting at home alone for a year now, but we do see that test holidays are being organized in Greece. The hospitality industry, the cultural sector and small entrepreneurs are devastated in this crisis, while the large business is making huge profits. This leads to an increase in those contradictions. Does the SP have all the wisdom and solutions in rent? No, of course we don't. But we do have a different vision and I will mention a few things. One. Go after the pharmaceutical. Our concern is not a market. The more vaccines we have, the faster we can vaccinate and the sooner we get out of this crisis. So lift the patents. Two. Put people's personal freedoms above economic easing. I mentioned just now that it really gives a harsh impression that we can go to the store at the moment, have to go to work on a full train and we are about to experiment with casinos and parties that are going to be accessible again, but people still have to stay inside at night, because we have a curfew. That is simply no longer sustainable. Three. Think of the outer space as an opportunity instead of a risk. If the weather gets nice soon, people will go out more. I told you, I get that. I understand that if you and your family are in an apartment, at some point, things just don't work out anymore. It's easy to talk when you live with a garden yourself, because then it's a lot easier to stay home than for those people. That's what's gonna happen. In addition, just moving and exercising in the outdoor area is important to stay fit and healthy. So invest in a plan to make better use of that outdoor space and regulate instead of banning it. Four. Pay the bill fairly. Every eighteen hours in this corona crisis, a billionaire is added. Ahold's turnover has never been as high as during this corona crisis. So get rid of that unfair partner test forzzp'ers, improve the support packages and make sure that the bill is paid by those who benefit from this crisis. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the health bonus. It was just about to happen. On the one hand, we are going to invest EUR 1 billion in commercial fun tests. I really want to hear from the cabinet exactly what the idea is. That will be tax money, so isn't the cabinet also afraid that tax money, which we all pay together, will benefit a very limited group? You can already see it happening: entrepreneurs are now showing up. Shouldn't we bet that money for all of us, the whole of society, rather than for limited groups for a party or opening casinos? So a billion dollars is available for this, but at the same time healthcare providers are told: "The €500 bonus promised to you is too expensive and needs to be distributed across the whole care system. Sorry, guys." That's what I heard the VVD group say. That just means that bonus will go in half. Healthcare providers do not receive the €500 promised to them by this cabinet. No, that'll be half. I find that unacceptable. I call on the entire House of Representatives to say that that is unacceptable. The last thing we can afford right now is to smack those caregivers, who are all standing in front of us now, in the face. That is why today we will table a motion to simply give our healthcare providers that bonus of €500, which they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u108	Thank you. Did that bring you to the end of your first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u109	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u110	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u111	Mrs Marijnissen has again put two things against each other, and I would like to say something about it. The fun test for the casino is a nice picture, but I think it's about something much wider. It is about self-testing, which we asked for by a majority of the House of Representatives itself. With these self-tests, we can re-open a large part of our society. Those self-tests can help entrepreneurs to receive some customers again and to get back on their feet after this intense time. Mrs Marijnissen can make a caricature of that, but she really ignores a feeling that also prevails in society, namely that we want to do things again and want to take up our normal life again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u112	I haven't really heard a question, but I'd really like to answer it. It's anything but a caricature. Taking away the healthcare bonus is just threatening to become a reality with this cabinet and the VVD. If only it were a caricature, I'd say, but that's far from it. Then about the 1 billion. Of course everyone is eager to see something done again; of course. But it's also a conflict of interest. Firstly, there are a lot of questions to ask about the financing of the 1 billion. I didn't have enough time for it right now, but I'm sure we'll get to that. How exactly is it organized? We read that it goes to three consultants who can pay their own salary and that there is hardly any control over it. We have a lot of questions about that. Why don't we just let the G.D.D. do it, for example? Then it would be for all of us. But now there is a choice for an investment of a lot of money: EUR 1 billion, huh? It is legitimate to ask whether we could put that billion better into the purchase of more safe vaccines, for example. Vaccination is, after all, a sustainable way out of this crisis. Those commercial fun tests will be for a short time and for a limited group. It is very much a question of who will benefit from it. If we still have so much test capacity left, the question is why we do not give higher education priority is legitimate. That would be something for society, for the benefit of all of us. Those youngsters are still only allowed to go to school one day a week, but later you can go to a party, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u113	What is at stake here is that Mrs Marijnissen is putting economics and concern against each other all the time. The point I made is that it's two sides of the same coin. We both need it. It's not about fun tests, it's about self-tests to open our country again and to do the things we want so badly. That's what it's about, and that was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u114	I did not hear a question and I am happy to give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u115	But I would like to give a brief response, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u116	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u117	Mrs Hermans blames me for putting concern and economics against each other, but she does so herself. The cabinet does this itself by saying to healthcare providers at the promised €500 health bonus: sorry, but there is no money for that. That is why we are making this comparison, because in the same week the same ministry decided to invest 1 billion of which nobody here knows what it will bring. What the caregivers do every day for our society and what it delivers, I'm sorry, but we know that and we all see here every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u118	Mrs Hermans, do you have a question or more of a comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u119	A very brief remark. I think it's about making choices: to do something for care and to do something for society and for entrepreneurs. The cabinet has done so by making money available for a bonus and for self-tests. The question of what exactly is going on with the self-tests is entirely in line with the questions put by Mrs Marijnissen. But it's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u120	I do not hear a question and would now like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u121	Well, I wish it was and-and bonus-wise. So that's the whole point. We are standing here and there is such a commotion about it because the promised bonus threatens to be taken away again. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u122	You think differently about that. I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u123	Maybe my question will shed some light on the matter. A good speech by Mrs Marijnissen. I can find myself in a lot of things, too. I noticed one thing I'd like some clarification about. I have a motion here from the former MP Van Gerven of your party. I will not list all the observations contained in it, but this motion ultimately calls on the government "to take seriously the principle of a test society and to underpin the choices made" when drawing up the new roadmap. In what light should I see this motion when I hear your contribution? I think there is something consistent about that, but I would like some explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u124	I understand that, but perhaps you'd also like to mention the date of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u125	The motion was tabled on 25 February last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u126	There are a number of things to say about that, I think. On the one hand, the moment. In my opinion, we are now full at the stage where everyone has something like: vaccination, vaccination, vaccination is the way out of this crisis. In this Chamber we have talked very often about the use of tests to get back to work. As far as the SP is concerned, this always happens in the order of things. What, for all of us, is, for the whole of society, so, for example, education, should be at the forefront, as far as we are concerned, of economic activity. If we have to choose, then the SP chooses to do so. So we would also find it impossible for us to open shops, but the curfew still remains in the package. We just don't think we can explain that anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u128	Actually, I think it's a consistent story. We actually share the criticism of that test society. Thanks for the explanation. I hope it will also give the VVD a bit of an answer to the question underneath. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u130	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u131	Mr. Chairman. There are over 800 people with corona on the ventilator at the intensive cares of the hospitals, more than in January. Fifty people are added to that every day. Nurses are exhausted from the ongoing fight against the virus. Major surgeries and treatments are being postponed again. People with vulnerable health are far from vaccinated and are therefore not protected. The sight of the virus has long been lost to the cabinet. Those who do not know better would think that the strategy of this cabinet is failing, but the truth is even more bitter: there is no strategy. With the elections coming up, the cabinet announced relaxations. At the beginning of April we could expect them, so we were told. Some members of the cabinet even felt that their election profits had to be translated into the corona policy. That is not a strategy, these are empty promises, when what is needed must be done. In January, the Prime Minister said that it would only be possible to relax if ten people per day were admitted to the ICI. This was last mentioned in September last year. And yet the cabinet recently talked about reopening terraces and abolishing curfew on 21 April. By speculating unsubstantiated about easing, the cabinet does not offer a perspective but merely false hope. Horeca entrepreneurs had already finished the terrace tables. Young people had already made their reservation. And now they are, I get that very well, because that's what I'm angry and disappointed in myself. Mayors are very concerned about the enforcement of the measures. 'Cause who else believes Rutte and De Jong have a plan? And the same goes for me. I'm sorry to say "fine" for the vaccinations. Other European countries are moving towards freedom, but in the Netherlands people with vulnerable health are still at risk of going into intensive care. Vaccinating is always at risk of slowing down, and that is a bad thing, because vaccination saves lives. Good practices such as those in North Limburg are being overturned, because it should not be allowed. Also inimitable is the choice for a prick stop for 60-minners. Scientists were clear about it and we follow their judgment: the risks of a serious course of corona contamination are higher than the risk of a rare form of thrombosis. We propose that we leave the choice for the AstraZeneca vaccine to people themselves in consultation with their GP. This also raises the question of how the Minister intends to deal with the Janssen vaccine. In the light of this uncertainty and all these delays, I would ask the Minister to make a concrete commitment. When have all people with vulnerable health been vaccinated and when have all other people been vaccinated? What consequences does he bring to possible failure? And we very much hope he doesn't fail this time. The field labs, the pilots and track 2a, 2b and 2c are sweeteners to conceal that failing policy. De Jonge is transferring EUR 1.1 billion to a private foundation for rapid testing, without tendering, without strict supervision and without any clarity as to its usefulness. What's the value of that? This money could be better spent on additional vaccines, on a social rescue plan, or on ensuring that rapid tests can be used to expand higher education and that, for example, study rooms and neighbourhoods can be opened up safely. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet seems inappropriate to guide our country through the next phase. Let me therefore put a few questions to the cabinet about this. How do we deal with outbreaks of new variants, such as the Brazilian variant? Is the test policy, the source and contact research in order? Where is the recovery plan promised by the Prime Minister? Many questions and I look forward to the answers, but even more to concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u132	I have two different topics, so I'm going to make them two different interruptions. This is about AstraZeneca and the choice model that Mrs Ploumen talked about. We had a technical briefing this morning in which it was made very clear that you should not do a choice model in times of scarcity. Does Mrs Ploumen want that now? It has also been explained quite clearly that with AstraZeneca and the shift in the groups you do not opt for a vaccine but for another vaccine that is less at risk. So does Mrs Ploumen now say that the people who are more at risk with AstraZeneca should still get AstraZeneca? Or do they now, as often happens, get Pfizer instead, so that AstraZeneca is used for people who are less at risk? Then, given this morning's technical briefing, you have the best of both worlds, namely no delay and no risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u133	I have also followed this technical briefing and there is a picture of the existing stocks which is different from what we keep hearing from the Minister. We also hear from general practitioners that they are concerned about cancelled agreements and about the delay in vaccination of people with vulnerable health. So my proposal is to make sure that those people with vulnerable health are vaccinated. Again, I have always heard from the Minister that there were plenty of supplies. So I'd like to hear how he's going to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u134	It has also been said this morning, in the technical briefing, that this stock problem could theoretically arise at the end of May. But in fact Mrs Ploumen says: the questions I have would then apply. She does not want to intervene now and avoid the choice of taking a risk, while at the moment there are those stocks. This is the situation which was also mentioned by the Health Council this morning: then perhaps we will have to amend the opinion. That's what Mrs Ploumen is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u135	Mr Heerma and I are now having a debate which is partly due to the constant lack of clarity about stocks. The Minister gives different signals about this. It is also about the constant lack of clarity about who is next in line, which is precisely the role of the general practitioners. So I honestly think that he and I have questions together, but I do think that the general practitioners should have a role to play in ensuring that these people are vaccinated together with vulnerable patients. We were just talking about North Limburg. That doesn't solve that problem. But every vulnerable person who gets vaccinated is one, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u136	I hear Mrs Ploumen say she has questions. I think that's different from what she said in her first term, but we'll both wait for the answers. My second topic is testing society. Because last autumn we had a lot of debates here in the Chamber. It was about the fact that we had far too little test material. There was then a great deal of criticism from various parties, including Mrs Ploumen's predecessor, that there was too little and too late to order. I think the minister was called a grocery store at the time. Mr Klaver has said that he is too Calvinist. Then the order came from the Chamber: more quick tests need to be bought. That was also about the economy, by the way. A motion has been adopted Chamberwide that gave the order: go quickly to buy those quick tests. It has been said by several parties: do not look too much at legal constraints, do not look at the money, because we need these rapid tests as soon as possible in order for society to be able to open up education but also to open up the economy. That has always been Mr Asscher's line. Is that still the line of the PvdA Group? And are the questions mainly focused on the fact that it all has to be checked and that it does not lead to money being put in cowboys' pockets when it could have been cheaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u137	Of course, we are in favour of society opening up as quickly as possible. And of course we are still there for quick tests and self-tests to be available as soon as possible and also that people at the GGD don't have to wait so long. The latter is now also on the agenda. But we are very, very opposed to seeing an increasing number of hundreds of millions disappear in a black hole of a foundation that has just been set up, where no clear answer has been given to any question and whose aim is not yet at all in sight, while students in higher education are now allowed to go there for one day. People who need a chat really want to go to a library or a community center, but now I'm gonna say it to Mrs Marijnissen after a casino. So I am very opposed to saying on the one hand that everything should be done exactly and monitored and on the other hand, when it comes to citizens just like 1.1 billion.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Why don't you come a day late with your tax return and you'll know what's going on? The questions asked to the former general at Nieuwsuur did not come up with an answer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u138	But the Labour Party still supports the mandate given by the Chamber, including the PvdA Group, to the cabinet: buy as many rapid tests as possible as soon as possible. That was the order from the motion. However, she does want much more clarity than now that this money is being spent in a manageable and proper manner. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u139	Well, the Labour Party never thought she'd be standing here knowing that there's 1.1 billion in a black hole disappearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u140	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u141	Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Paternotte and a number of others, I am new to this subject and I can say that we did not have to get bored last week when you look at the reading that goes with it. That makes sense, because this pandemic leaves no one untouched, but it is precisely the weakest in society who pay the highest price: our chronically ill, the young and adults with mental problems and those who have to make ends meet every month. Yesterday, the education inspection presented an annual report which showed very clearly that the corona crisis increases the existing problems in education. Look at the shortage of teachers and other problems and increases the inequality between children. First of all, I would like to ask the cabinet what we are going to do to get out of this crisis and to prevent this inequality from getting worse. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, essential that we start vaccination as soon as possible. That is why GroenLinks considers the decision to suspend AstraZeneca for 60-minners unwise. After all, the infection rates give little cause for joy and the OMT clearly notes that the forecasts for the coming weeks were still based on vaccinations with AstraZeneca under 60 years of age. By removing this 60-minner vaccine, we're getting further away. We see that the countries around us deal differently with the vaccines of AstraZeneca. We also know that the chance of developing severe thrombosis because of that vaccine is very low. That is why GroenLinks wonders whether this grand decision to stop or pause is proportionate to the benefits of vaccination. Why was it not chosen to make AstraZeneca available to 60-minners on a voluntary basis? Mr. Chairman. I had a conversation a while ago with co-worker Chicken from the PvdA who attacked me. It was a conversation with people who are in voluntary quarantine with their families because the parents or one of the children belongs to the risk groups. We are talking about children who often haven't been to school for a year and who haven't been able to get together with friends and friends for a year and who are just lonely. The answers to our written questions showed that it is not five children, but thousands of children. This takes a toll on children and on parents, also because they feel guilty. They really want to be vaccinated because that means they're getting back a little bit of their freedom. That group was here this morning on the Square under the motto "Don't forget us, Hugo!'. They tweet very actively and rightly feel forgotten. Actually, they'd be next in February. Each time their vaccination is postponed and now a part of the group is only due in a few months' time. As far as we are concerned, the civilisation of a society is read from the way we deal with the weakest. We find it indigestible that a very large group of 1 million chronically ill and people with disabilities are seen as too little priority in the vaccination strategy. A few weeks ago, a motion by my colleague Kröger was adopted to give priority to all young people and adults at medical risk, not only those seven high-risk groups but all young people and adults. We do not see enough of that. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet for a response. Mr. Chairman. We have also been working hard for a long time to prevent spilling. We see that other countries work with vaccination waiting lists. For example, adult Belgians can register for a waiting list in order to get an invitation to a vaccine last minute. About 300,000 of our Belgian neighbors installed the app. We ask the Cabinet if they are willing to organise such a waiting list system, as in a number of countries near us. Mr. Chairman. Two more important points, starting with the caregivers. That health bonus again causes a stir, because either 100,000 people are excluded from the bonus or the amount of the bonus is halved, which is for everyone. This seems like a pedagogic trick to make a child choose from two things that it doesn't want at all: do you want ten or fifteen Brussels sprouts? Well, I'll take ten. That's how the letter came to us. We would like to ask Minister Van Ark why she did not choose to just pay out that €500 in health bonus to everyone, for example up to people who earn twice as much as they deserve. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Last week, Follow the Money published a disturbing article about the organisation of the Stichting Open Nederland. GroenLinks supports the intention to test more, also to get the culture sector back on track and to ensure that people have access to society again, but we do have serious doubts about the chosen design. We therefore ask the cabinet why it has been chosen to distribute three consultants EUR 925 million and why the cabinet letter we received does not clarify the classification of Stichting Open Nederland. I'd like a response to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u142	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u143	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is full of fat mayors who fight for who best adheres to the corona measures. Unchosen drivers who walk around each other with big bows and throw themselves with as many mouth caps as possible, like peacocks in a mating dance, determined to show the other how much they are good. But in the meantime, people have looked at the figures and a huge parallel society has emerged of well-thinking people who have taken up their normal lives again. Families just celebrate Easter again and students run around the city like rats after a visit to a packed cellar or a festival somewhere in the forest. Grandpas and grandmothers hug their grandchildren again and shopkeepers just let their customers in. Police officers now admit that they prefer to catch bad guys and boa's quietly turn a blind eye. Private parties are once again cozy and the fear porn imposed by the state propaganda seems to have worked out. We are no longer afraid and we no longer believe the corona models of the RIVM and the fables of the cabinet about the third wave and the British variant. The lies have been broken, falsehoods have been exposed, and the failure of this cabinet lies barefoot on the street. The special thing is that the political elite no longer believes in it. In Paris, for those same people who serve the people, corona-free dinners are organized with caviar and champagne. In the Netherlands our leaders only put on a mask for the camera and they just celebrate their wedding in old style. And the ministers of VWS and JenV eat happily each week together with 50 mayors full of their belly during the Safety Council in Utrecht, with cozy chatter about which freedom robberies they will now impose on the people. Democratic bodies may meet with more than 30 people and have automatic exemption from curfew, but the Security Council is not a democratic body. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how the Security Council meets with more than 30 people. Is this elite dinner, which has been souped every week for a year, really in the spirit of the corona measures and the sacrifices demanded of all young people, students, elderly people and entrepreneurs? Mr. Chairman. A short question about the test society, which we will fight in every way possible. Fortunately there are also plenty of companies, for example Monkey Town in Leeuwarden, who have already indicated that they are not going to join this nonsense. But has the social impact of the test society been investigated? And who's gonna pay for all these tests? And why would 925 million euros be transferred for a pilot? And what's the logic of constantly testing healthy people? And why wouldn't you turn it around? For example, why don't you just test it before you go into a nursing home? Mr. Chairman. Minister De Jonge recently put away half a million Dutch people as wappies and he said that he thinks our sound in the House of Representatives is dangerous for public health. Angry he took me here after a question about the side effects of vaccinations and then suffering from statisticitis with the tail between the legs to stop AstraZeneca because of side effects, side effects that he previously trivialized as fake news. And now there's the Janssen vaccine. As far as we are concerned, it is okay for vulnerable people to be vaccinated voluntarily, as with flu shots, but vaccination of people who are at very low risk is absurd. But the sacred grail of this minister is the corona vaccine, a vaccine that the minister says is so safe that we have to force people to take it, so safe that we have to be careful not to reduce vaccination readiness, because we need to be protected against a virus with an IFR of only 0.15%. The Netherlands is currently one of the worst functioning countries at a distance when we look at vaccination. Only 4.82% have been fully vaccinated, while Israel and Great Britain are almost ready. An embarrassment for this minister, who does force a vaccination passport on us and on our passerby. I would also like to hear from the Minister how this vaccination passport is legally maintained. This minister gambled on the wrong vaccines, denied the side effects, mop up on the vaccination and has now stopped to excess of disaster AstraZeneca for people under 60 years of age, because this vaccine can cause a severe form of thrombosis. How is it possible that millions of Janssen vaccines are produced in Leiden, filled in Baltimore and that the Netherlands has checked? And what does the Minister think about the ban on vaccination with the Janssen vaccine in the US? The project management of this minister in this vaccination gate is a tragedy and it is unbelievable that in the event of such failure it can be blundered. Mr. Chairman. The third wave with the British variant appears to be exaggerated again. But entrepreneurs are now going on a massive scale, despite the poor support packages. Carousal operators are now homeless, catering entrepreneurs have lost their life's work and young people have been traumatized for life by this minister, who keeps our country in a senseless lockdown. The Democracy Forum has long advocated a business cabinet, in which people become ministers with relevant training and experience. We are still in the midst of a crisis, not a virus, but the disastrous policy of this minister. I understand that doctor and hospital director Marcel Levi is back from London. I would therefore like to appeal to Prime Minister Rutte: this is the time to show leadership. Fire this failing U.S. Secretary of State. Call Marcel Levi and immediately make him Minister of VWS and show that you have the best interests with the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u144	There is an interruption by Mr Segers of the Christian Union and then by Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u145	First, a question of fact. Do I hear Mr Van Haga say that the Minister of VWS would like to force people into vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u146	Yes, Mr Segers. We have had this discussion before. You have a direct and indirect vaccination obligation and we are now very hard on an indirect vaccination obligation, whereby you can no longer do certain things if you have not been vaccinated. In addition, we consider the vaccination of perfectly healthy people to be completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u147	But I still have a very precise question. If Mr Van Haga says 'this minister is forcing vaccination', then my question is: when did this minister talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u148	I'll answer the question again. By this I mean an indirect vaccination obligation and that is de facto the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u149	This House has adopted motions for resolutions on this matter and has said that we do not want to do so, not indirectly and not directly; we do not want to do so. This Minister has also acknowledged that. So I don't think you're doing the Minister any justice in this. Then there is my second factual question. We are a disgrace, we do very badly with vaccination, but at the same time Mr Van Haga says: we only need to inoculate vulnerable people. If you only inoculate vulnerable people, that naturally leads to a very low vaccination rate. How then are we a disgrace if we do not have a vaccination rate as high as, for example, Israel, which is then referred to as a shining example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u150	As far as we're concerned, it's some kind of flu shot. If you're vulnerable and you want to be vaccinated voluntarily: fine, that's how we have to do it. But if vaccination is the holy grail and you just look at it as a corporate project, then you can say that we are the worst boy in the class.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u151	But I don't know how that can be true at the same time. Then it's not embarrassment, is it? Then it is fine in your eyes, because now only vulnerable people are vaccinated, namely elderly people and people with poor health. That fits perfectly into Mr Van Haga's style, I would say. Then why is Israel the shining example, a country with a very high vaccination rate that infects the entire population and shows that this will also make more possible? People can eat out there again, they can go back out on the street, they can party again. There you see what the effect is. How is that a shining example in your worldview and the Netherlands so terribly bad? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u152	That could be both true. First of all, there's no need to vaccinate everyone. But if you decide that you can only release the country after everyone has been vaccinated, that's a project you need to look at. We do not go along with that narrative at all, but if you do, then we are very badly on our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u153	Finally, I understand that Israel is a shining example if you want something very bad and that Israel, which now has the space to open the shops, to celebrate again, to go back to school, is sort of the nightmare of Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u154	Projectually, Israel is a shining example. Israel is a shining example in many areas, but it is indeed a projectary one. As far as we are concerned, the solution is much simpler. You protect the vulnerable, which you might be able to vaccinate, if that's what they want. But then you're just gonna open up the rest of society again, because this virus isn't worse than a heavy flu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u155	I have followed the whole input it has almost followed a tirade of Mr Van Haga, and now also this last sentence. I actually have a very simple question. The debate started around 1:30. Then a message came in in which the NZa says: care is further scaled and care quality is in danger. How does Mr Van Haga react to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u156	I can put that question back. What have you done over the past ten years to maintain or scale the number of ic-beds? What have you done in the last year and a half to ensure that sufficient staff were trained to man the ic-beds? Nothing at all. So when it comes to care, the ball really lies with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u157	I find this really disgusting. On ic's and in regular care is hard work. Cancer surgeries are now being postponed. Heart surgery is delayed. And you keep saying, "Corona is a flu." That was my question. How do you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u158	The fact that cancer surgery is delayed, that cardiovascular disease patients do not come to their senses and that all kinds of regular care is scaled down is because there is a limitation in the capacity of care. You're in the coalition, so you could have made sure that that would be scaled up. Nothing has happened to that for a year and a half, so yes, you may have to apologize yourself. Because it is indeed appalling that that has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u159	I note that Mr Van Haga has in no way been affected by the news that care is being scaled down and that about 70% of the hospitals that have heart surgery and cancer operations are no longer able to take place. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u160	Well, I'd like to make a comment on that. Of course I've been affected by that, only, the problem is your own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u161	There are always some contradictions in Mr Van Haga's speech. On the one hand, the virus is a severe flu and on the other hand he says that we should be able to put 10,000 people on the ventilator at the same time in the Netherlands. On the one hand, he says "I don't really want healthy people to be vaccinated" and on the other hand, he says we can learn a lot from Israel, where three quarters of the people have been vaccinated. On that last point, I have a question, because you say that we should not vaccinate healthy people. We've seen a pilot in itself in the world with an approach like yours. You can watch Manaus in Brazil. There they had a first wave and then they got a very heavy second wave, but with a virus mutation. So if you say "you really don't have to let people vaccinate; you can let the virus go around," then it can also continue to develop in mutations that we now see are becoming more dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u162	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u163	Do you recognize that? When you look at Brazil, do you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u164	Last time, someone came with Brazil. I don't know who that was. Was that you? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u165	This is my first corona debate, so it must have been someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u166	Yeah, sorry. There are now 22 states in the United States that are stopping the measures. They see a very nice drop in the number of infections. In Florida, they didn't take any measures at all, and that's where things are going well. In Sweden, for example, we have seen how things can be different. And when it comes to care capacity, for example, we see that in North Rhine-Westphalia they have five times as many ic-beds as we do. That is the result of huge cuts in healthcare here in the Netherlands. So when it comes to whether or not you can handle this virus, of course I advocate increasing the capacity in care. And I have just answered the question about vaccination in response to Mr Segers. I think that's exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u167	Thank you. The last question for Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u168	If Mr Van Haga points to America, where 22 states scale down the measures, then I say: those are states where 18-year-olds can apply for vaccines and where many more people are vaccinated than here. So I just don't understand how you can keep coming to the conclusion that the solution is that we're gonna vaccinate a few people and then we're gonna stop, while you're always quoting examples of countries that show that vaccination of as many people as possible is the way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u169	First of all, we are not against vaccinations. But a polio vaccine has been tested out-and-after. Despite the fact that Mr De Jonge has said here that these vaccines have also been tested from-to-after, that is not exactly the case. So I'd like to argue that this just happens voluntarily. And if vulnerable people want to vaccinate voluntarily, that's fine. I think this will provide relief in the care. That's no problem at all. So I think the solutions are not that far from each other. Only we do not understand the pathological, or the more religious passion of that vaccination. Because it's bullshit to vaccinate someone who's actually not at risk of dying of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u170	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As we know, the lockdown is being extended again. I can imagine that was a difficult decision, but it is understandable given the worrying situation in hospitals, which was confirmed again this afternoon. However, there was also the communication that on 28 April perhaps more could be done, if the figures allow it. My group does wonder how real that is. Isn't that what we're organizing for a new disappointment? Then the concerns about stopping the AstraZeneca and the Janssen vaccine. How realistic does the cabinet think it is now to have given everyone over 18 voluntarily a first shot at the beginning of July? My group remains opposed to a vaccination obligation and a vaccination certificate, but people who want to be pricked must, of course, have that possibility. It is now stated that this would be possible for everyone at the beginning of July. There are people with a medical indication who have been locked up in their own homes for over a year. I'm glad they were here this morning. Still, those stories are incredibly poignant. That is why I would like to join all the other parties who have said: can we not do something for these vulnerable 60-miners? Can't the VWS minister still allow us to give any remaining vaccines to this group? Mr. Chairman. Then the test events, that black hole where the 1.1 billion taxpayers' money is disappearing. We are also concerned about this. We are particularly concerned about the information provided by the Minister so far and about the lack of adequate safeguards for the use of this money. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's answers in this debate and hope that our concerns can be addressed. Last Tuesday the World Health Organisation urged countries to stop selling live animals on markets. Live animals on markets are, in addition to the livestock industry, an important source of human infectious diseases. Not only in China, but also in the Netherlands, live wild animals, such as bats, desert foxes and reptiles, are still sold at markets and fairs. Is the Minister for Health prepared to follow the WHO's call and stop these markets? There is also an approved motion from the Party for Animals last year. At the annual meeting of the WTO, the Cabinet should address the impact of wildlife trade on the emergence of new infectious diseases. I would like to hear how the cabinet is going to implement this motion this year. Last year, at the height of the crisis, that was not possible. We understand that, but we would like to know how that is going to happen. Last week the Health Council reminded us of the effects of ten years of Rutte in a report on the growing health gap in the Netherlands. The VVD's prevention policy mainly helps rich people to improve health and poor people are getting sicker. Corona has only magnified those problems. The ic's are victims of years of looking away, slowing down and trivializing, and in the meantime let large, sickening companies determine the policy. We are therefore curious whether the VVD and D66 really want to show a trend break this time, so that health policy can no longer be determined in backrooms and industry, as in the previous formation, does not prevail. We are therefore calling for a fully transparent process in which science is finally to be monitored. And science says no longer let industry determine policy. Mr. Chairman. During the previous Corona debate, I mentioned an increase in the number of infections in slaughterhouses. At Vion Boxtel alone, 100 people were found to be infected, but no intervention was necessary according to the Minister. Because when the Inspector of the Labour Inspectorate was wrong, the rules were all very well followed. Now we have received a letter of fire from the trade union, from the FNV, and from the works council of KDS, the organisation that carries out the meat inspection. The letter tells in smells and colors what it really is like in that workplace. Employees are too close together, mouth caps are not used or used incorrectly, there are coughing people at work and there is no intervention, not even by the NVWA. There are even signs that GDs and Labour Inspectorates are simply being misled. What does the Minister think of this? How is it that she gave these kinds of answers in the previous debate? Why doesn't she finally intervene? We really want this to change. I am very interested in the Minister's answers to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u172	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I would like to give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u173	Thank you, Madam President. It's good to see you there. First of all, communication. There is not always clear and unambiguous communication, and that may be an understatement. We were unclear about enlargement on 21 April and frustration that it could not be achieved. Now it is true that the cabinet never communicated that 21 April would be about enlargement, but it has been leaked, and that is a pattern. As soon as the service cars leave the Catshuis, the information will be with the media. That leads to frustration. We also see people who join all kinds of meetings with cabinet members and then look up the media and make different sounds. This leads to confusion, cynicism and mistrust. That's very worrying. So my first question is: what is the cabinet going to do to improve communication? Then there are the measures. Now the perspective is 28 April, but isn't the danger that this will lead to disappointment again in the event of failure to achieve it? Isn't it more important to send on data instead of on a date? Which values are then retained? And where do the churches fit into the open plan? Are they gonna be recorded, too? Then vaccination. I agree with Mr Paternotte's question on freedom of choice. Suppose there is indeed a surplus and that people with what is called a beautiful Dutch word "informed consent," say freely: I want to take that risk; give me AstraZeneca. Shouldn't that be possible? I also agree with Mr Ploumen's question when it comes to freedom at GGDs and how you deal with what's left. Is it so bad if there are regional differences, if one GGD deals with them differently from the other? Then vaccinations for adolescents and adults at medical risk. There is an approved Kröger motion to give them priority. The Minister has sent a letter on this subject and written questions have been answered, but priority has not yet been given to all those at medical risk. A selection of seven high-risk groups has been made, but this selection is rather narrow in international terms. Can we not find a creative solution so that these people, after sometimes fourteen months of isolation, can still get out of it? I call on the Minister to keep an eye on small groups that seem to fall between shore and ship. Some small-scale housing initiatives are overlooked in the vaccination rounds and pgb care providers who did have a call for AstraZeneca but did not make any appointments, are now also falling between shore and ship. They don't seem to be able to reschedule now. Meanwhile, diplomats, MEs and Olympic athletes are given priority. So I would really like to draw attention to these specific groups which are at risk of falling between ship and ship. Madam President. Where the European Union is already buying vaccines for a third booster shot, poor countries do not even have access to their first shot. So the global production really needs to go up. How does the Prime Minister look at the call by many world leaders for the lifting of property rights for vaccines so that production can be increased? Then test it. Many questions have already been asked about the more than 1 billion that goes to the foundation, or at least has been reserved for it. I agree with the questions about how that is arranged and how it is regulated. What I must at least get off my back is the priority given to it. I see I can go to about 30 casinos, but I can't even go to my own church. If we want to open up society, I find the priority given to casinos quite amazing. I would ask for special attention to be paid to cross-border workers and children who have to pay for tests themselves, and also very specifically to families with a narrow scholarship. If we were to open up that society, would it be very painful if people who have to turn every dime, lag behind or stand at a distance from society? Can we not, for example, make self-tests available to those people through special assistance or food banks? Then there's the health bonus. The Minister for Medical Care has given us a dilemma. I thought it was a very clear dilemma to all honesty. My question, however, is to work out an option or a small amendment to this second option. Could one and a half modes be used? This is used in the first option. Could this not also be applied to the second option, so that people who can use it very well, in particular, will be left with a little more? Are the ic nurses really covered, I say in response to other questions, because that should be a condition. At the very end, Madam President, I agree with Mr Hermans' questions about shops and retailing. It's very important to keep an eye on the pain of shopkeepers. There is a need for continued support. And all the way to the end, there is a wonderful initiative of network #not only under the name #prikpositive, which encourages young people and youth clubs to do something good for their neighbors. It is particularly important to give them this opportunity, to encourage them and to enable them to do so. My encouragement to the VWS Minister is therefore to respond generously to this initiative and such initiatives with money, publicity and co-thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u174	Thank you, Mr Segers. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u175	Mr. Chairman. There are many positive tested people in all age groups and many ic-recordings. The situation in our country is very serious, and I quote from the OMT opinion. It is a miserable situation, which only makes the chaos around the vaccinations more harrowing. In addition to the coronavirus, there also appears to have been a virus of intransigibility through our country. Dots are placed on the horizon that need to be wiped out again. The last press conference mainly discussed possible relaxations, while the number of infections was increasing. Can the Prime Minister explain to me the ratio behind that? Why did the outgoing Prime Minister and Minister mention 28 April as a new dot and on what basis? I'd like a solid answer. Then there's communication. Interest in the press conferences is clearly decreasing, while it is necessary for the government to invest in so-called support. That starts with reaching people. I would therefore like to draw attention to Norway's communication strategy, where every citizen receives the most important measures after the end of the press conference via a text message from the government. Maybe we can start with that here in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Much has been said about it, but there is a lot of investment in testing, testing, testing. Plusminus 1 billion has been paid out to a private foundation without supervisors. There was no tender, but according to the law that is a requirement. Why not? I'll ask the Minister. Why is there no monitoring of the use of this money? Why is so much money being given to this particular foundation? I'd like an answer. Also at the Keukenhof, one of the testing locations, there was no one from the Ministry to see how this test went. That's remarkable when you see how much money is put into this. Who's watching this, anyway? Meanwhile, we see that higher education has been closed for too long and that the opening of physical education will be one of the first steps in the roadmap. How will the Minister manage this together with the infections? Isn't it better to use the field labs for physical education? Are there any other possibilities to look at, for example the medical mouth caps? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the lives of many people in the border regions have stopped. That is because there are again tough borders in Europe. Of course, there are initiatives, such as a vignette, to allow people with a crucial profession to cross the border faster, but this still prevents many people. Is the Minister prepared to make a major effort to ensure that border commuters do not have to deal with the high costs of commercial testing? Then the Brazilian variant. Looks like he's on the move or at least looks like he's getting there. What are we doing actively to prevent the spread of this variant, especially in the long term? Doesn't the strategy of steering on ic-capacity experience its expiration date? The high number of ic recordings combined with the forthcoming relaxations and uncertainty may soon lead to the reversal of possible relaxations. Volt also lacks clear frameworks for the smooth running of the facilitations. Of course a lot has already been said about the terraces, but Volt is curious how they can be opened safely. How, for example, do we deal with the travel movements needed for this? Finally, Mr President. The vaccination isn't going well. AstraZeneca and Janssen are stopped and four out of ten 60-plussers no longer see an AstraZenecaprik. Carefulness is understandable, but I still have a number of questions. Not, less or too slow vaccination means more infections, more mortality and more long-term sick, which increases the risk of mutations. It also means less economic activity. Do those risks outweigh the rare risk of thrombosis? And if so, why? Can we make the vaccines available to people who dare to risk it? And finally, how do the directors prevent too much reduction in vaccination readiness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u176	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. This is, like Mrs. Den Haan, her maiden speech. That's always a very special moment. I suggest that at the end of the first term we give you the opportunity to congratulate the people who made their maiden speech. We have here in the Chamber the use that there are no interruptions, so enjoy this moment. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At my maiden speech in the First Chamber, I said, "You can take a doctor out of care, but you can't take care of a doctor." I am therefore honored to have my maiden speech on a medical subject in this house as well. I do so with mixed feelings, because the subject of this debate is the biggest crisis that our country has seen in decades. A medical crisis with profound personal, social and economic consequences. I would have liked to have started my contribution with a compliment to Minister De Jonge on the better times that are approaching. JA21 is a positive party. But in a week in which experiments and field labs show that even events can go on inside, even with a high number of corona infections, the cabinet thrives with relaxations. The roadmap is mainly a slide plan and the roadmap is a maze. The parallel world of testing and experimentation costs almost 1 billion, while the restrictive measures will be reduced even without the results, because more is already possible without causing unacceptable risks to the ic occupation. For example, the chance of getting infected in a theatre in which measures have been taken is as great as at home. Virologists call the risk of infection in the outdoor air rare and epidemiologically irrelevant. Yet the terraces remain closed. I would therefore like to hear what figures the Minister has decided on this. In Ireland, 1 out of 1,000 infections appeared to have occurred in the outdoor air. I heard Mr Van Dissel say that the odds are 18 times as small outside. What figures do we have in the Netherlands? Are there any specific figures on the terraces? And how does this relate to the risks that have been taken before? We urge the cabinet to unlock our society more quickly. This can and is justified. Simple measures can already mean a lot, such as the introduction of a traffic light system that allows shops to open up again without an appointment. The industry itself has so many good plans. Let us not be frightened by relaxing, as if everyone were losing sight of all precaution when restrictions are removed. These relaxations mean so much to young people, families and entrepreneurs who see their life's work slip through their fingers like sand. Mr Rutte spoke at the press conference on the worlds inside and outside the hospital. He emphasised the high absenteeism and suggested that this is an important reason to refrain from relaxing at this time. If it's anyone's heart that's about 20% of the ICU nurses at home, it's me. I come from the medical world myself and during the first wave my husband lost months to the covid-ic. I know how hard it is. However, the outgoing Prime Minister makes a mistake when he confronts these worlds. That overstressed nurse is also a father who is worried about his adolescent son who can't handle it anymore mentally. This overworked doctor is the daughter of a parent in a nursing home who is becoming increasingly lonely. You can't separate the world outside the hospital from the world inside the hospital. A tunnel vision narrows our eyes on the world. Look at old people. It seems as if the elderly fall outside the field of vision and form a lost group. There are reports from nursing homes that, despite vaccination, contact is kept to a minimum. This happens to people in the final phase of their lives. At the very stage when holding a hand can mean so much, this should not, although everyone has been vaccinated, from the elderly themselves to the staff. What is the Minister doing to ensure that human relations are given the weight they deserve? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the vaccination strategy. The Demissionary Cabinet has often stressed that vaccination is the only way out of the crisis. Yet this is slower than it should be. Of course, a part of it is invisible, but a large part of it is. For example, I would like to hear from the Minister what influence it will have if the Janssen vaccine undergoes the same fate as that of AstraZeneca. Are we gonna make it to the puncture targets? Has it also been studied to buy the Sputnik vaccine, like other EU Member States? With this we may be able to absorb gaps in the vaccination strategy. I'd like a response from the Minister. There is little to expect from this missionary cabinet: shifting plans, failing the vaccination strategy; easings lead to delay. The only route on the road map is the road to the trash basket. What a well-thought-out open plan should go on is a shaky balance between insights of the OMT and societal interests. In other words: a balance between a tunnel vision of what is happening in the hospital and a broad view of what is happening outside. The latest plan does not even provide for a society that really goes back to normal, whereas for JA21 it should be the goal. Because a society that stays permanently at a distance of 1.5 metres is a medical, social and economic dystopia. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two points. Firstly, it is almost a year since Mr Segers' motion for an impact management team was adopted. We ourselves advocate an economic management team. But apart from the name, the intention is the same: to advise the cabinet from a broader perspective. What steps have been taken in this respect, except for a think tank of the SER reports to write? Secondly, a question about the vaccination passport. The European Commission is designing a comprehensive test and vaccination certificate. Except for travel purposes, this can also be used for other purposes. Why does the Dutch Government approve that a vaccination passport, which can be used for purposes other than travel and which is of a permanent nature, should be issued under the flag of the enforcement of COVID-19? Mr. Chairman. I fully hope that I will be able to begin my contribution to the next Corona debate with my compliments to the Minister for his decisiveness in relaxing the measures. I hope he does not disappoint my group, but especially all the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u178	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Once again, at the end of the first term, there is an opportunity for colleagues to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u179	Because of the corona rules, it's a little less interactive. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP for his first term. Mrs. De Haan has chosen not to have her maiden speech today. So that's a small correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u180	Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Pouw-Verweij on her maiden speech. I've heard it with interest. I'm sure that promises a lot more, especially with your knowledge of medical matters. So congratulations again and my compliments. Mr President, then the content. "The delayed hope hurts the most, but the desire that comes is a tree of life." Those are wise words from the Bible book Proverbs, written by wise king Solomon. I think that this week, in which the cabinet again decided to postpone facilitations, these are also appropriate words. Many people looked forward to it: a little more room for manoeuvre and also a little more freedom. The fact that this reopening is taking longer, it just falls raw on our roof. It is fair to say that this disappointment is also due to the way in which the cabinet combines roadmaps, anchor points and roadmaps. I quote RIVM's behavioral expert: "The lack of a clear course creates confusion, offers little guidance to the population, and possibly undermines confidence, support and compliance." The Prime Minister found it unfortunate that last week a date was leaked, on which he promptly again mentioned a new date. I remember that old political wisdom: the ship of state usually leaks at the top. The SGP asks the cabinet: provide more clarity in the corona policy and in the communication; say what you do and do as you say. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the information that was sent to the Chamber yesterday about the access tests, but the SGP Group does raise a lot of questions, first of all about the tendering procedure, because European procurement rules have been dealt with by way of derogation. The minister says we didn't have enough time to do this by the rules. But why? Because this plan has been under way for months, hasn't it? Last Tuesday, the Chamber requested the agreement with the Stichting Open Nederland. The documents show that the second contract worth 1 billion was signed only yesterday, so after Tuesday. My question is, how is this possible? I really want a good answer to that. Then there is the question of how much this plan costs; that has already been said by others. The minister says 1.1 billion for five months. But if I understand correctly from the documents, the government will only cover the costs of the tests for a month. The bill for the other four months is still open. My question is: is this right and who is going to take the fall for that? Finally, is there any evidence that testing for access works? Does it contribute to the fight against the virus? Is it justified to spend so much community money for such a relatively short period of time? Does frequent testing have an added value over distance, maximum limits and other hygiene measures? Last year, institutions and entrepreneurs were able to get away with the protocols they have drawn up; so this year, too, I think. I would like to know from the Minister whether or not he is going to introduce a test requirement into the bill coming to this Chamber on Friday. Mr. Chairman. Then the outdoors. The SGP has always said: look what can be justified. There is now a lot of evidence that the risk of contamination in the outdoor air is very low. In my village Elspeet the restaurant next to Bakker Piet may not open the terrace, but at the same time the whole street is full of people who at Bakker Piet or at a to go get a takeaway and a cup of coffee. Then why doesn't the cabinet now simply make more use of the regulated outdoor space available, such as terraces and parks, but also flow-through locations, such as the Keukenhof? Moreover, in the interests of enforcement, it would be desirable not to introduce these relaxations on 28 April, but, as I have just asked Mr Heerma in an interrupting debate, on 27 April. How could this be arranged? Mr. Chairman. Finally, weddings and funerals. Increasing the maximum number of visitors at funerals and weddings contributes to the general well-being. In such one-off, special events, it is very important to be with family and friends. I understand that mayors aren't easy to use the exception clause in the Corona Act. My question to the cabinet is, and that is the last one: is the cabinet prepared to look again at the maximum number of funerals and weddings? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u181	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u182	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the congratulations of the DENK Group towards Mrs Pouw-Verweij. She indicated that she could not compliment the ministers. I can tell you that the DENK Group will not do that today either. Mr. Chairman. Good news! Not good news, anyway. Curfew's off! The curfew stays. The terraces open on April 21st! We can't open the terraces. Sooths in sight! No, I didn't. In fact, the Netherlands is tired of this swirling policy of the company Rutte & De Jonge. Each time the country gets a dead sparrow presented. People are done with it. Even the national coronak nuffle bear Diederik Gommers said on national television the day before yesterday: "Mark Rutte promises what he cannot make true." Meanwhile, the whole country actually knows what it's like when Rutte makes promises and says he's telling the truth. Mr. Chairman. At a time when we are having strong debates about power and counterpower, where there is consensus about the distortion between power and counterpower, and where the Chamber has had to fight to restore the right to information, is it not possible for the House of Representatives to play detective again in order to get all the information out of the table? 1 billion is transferred to the account of a foundation that has many similarities with the company Rutte & De Jonge. For example, there is no clear information provision, no supervisory board and therefore no counter-power, and the procurement rules are not complied with and therefore the law is violated. It's obvious this case stinks. But it doesn't really stink until we think about what that money is going to be spent on: we're going to a test society. That is a society that DENK is not in favour of. But given the direction in which the curfew coalition, consisting of VVD, D66, SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA, is moving, it is most likely to come. Then it is obviously more important that people who are willing to be tested can go to a party, can go on candy trips to Rhodes or can go to a casino than to invest in physically safe education. What about the priorities, I ask Minister De Jonge. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the mayors of the four major cities indicate that they are forced by the Hague policy makers to face their own residents. They unanimously state that they are not responsible for the consequences if Mr Rutte and Mr De Jonge continue to muddle. The message to the cabinet is clear: without relaxation, the measures cannot be enforced. How heavy does the cabinet actually weigh this signal from the mayors of the four major cities? We have actually been saying it for a long time: do not simply open and close all kinds of sectors, which destroys entire sectors, but look at the latest scientific insights, for example the Irish study that shows that only 1 in 1,000 infections occur in the outdoors. Then the terraces can just open and we give catering entrepreneurs a little air after six months. Mr. Chairman. Those who do not comply with the wishes of the company Rutte & De Jonge, can, like 113,000 people in the past year, expect a print. If only this government had worked with the same speed to appreciate the care staff. For months we have had debates on the structural improvement of the remuneration of care staff. Result: zero. Former member of the Room Van Kooten-Arissen has taken the initiative to pay a bonus to every healthcare worker. It is now a year further and we are getting disturbing reports that only €200 of that bonus is left. I would like an explanation from Minister Van Ark on how this can be done. Mr. Chairman. DENK was the initiator of the motion in which the Chamber ruled by a large majority that the direct or indirect obligation of vaccination should not be imposed. In the meantime, there have been constant attempts to exert compulsion and urge to vaccinate. What is the situation with Minister De Jonge's commitment to respond to the Health Council's report on ethical and legal considerations? When can the Chamber expect that? The DENK Group is deeply concerned about the Minister's vaccination strategy. Because, yes, we're dealing with overloaded hospitals by people with the biggest disease burden. Then you should be the first to vaccinate the vulnerable, if that's what they want, of course. When I arrived in the Chamber, I briefly spoke with Mrs Kulic. She gave me a forget-me-not. She's less than 60 years old, but she's part of the risk group. She is concerned that she is being pushed further and further back because all kinds of groups are given priority. Isn't it impossible for a group of diplomats to get priority for a shot? How do you explain that to vulnerable people who end up on ICU? How do you explain that to 60-plussers who have been waiting for the shot for weeks and who are vulnerable? How do you explain that top athletes who are going to compete in the Olympics get priority? To conclude, I would therefore like to hand these three forget-me-nots over to the three rulers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u183	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. It'll be taken care of. The rulers say they already have one. Then this is an extra forget-me-notje. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to Mrs. Pouw. I just wanted to save my maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Soon we won't see the coronabos in the Netherlands because of the trees. We are allowed to go to the supermarket and the drugstore, where it is incredibly crowded on weekends, but market merchants are not allowed to sell their non-food items in the outdoors. We can go to the beauty specialist, but not to the solarium. We may be on a full train or tram, but we are not allowed to take a theory exam at the CBR, while the boxes there are made so that it could be done with sufficient distance. As Mr Marijnissen said, we all go to the park in great weather. We are sitting on and in each other and are moderately maintained, but the terraces are not allowed to open, while the catering industry has invested enormously to ensure that all the corona measures can be maintained. I really can't explain to people the Cabinet is working on anymore. Perhaps they will be able to explain it to me on the basis of the examples mentioned here. People's support is falling enormously; we have heard this before today. Good, consistent communication is really essential for this. Then there are the pilot events with the public, for which the cabinet has allocated over 900 million. The letter of 13 April states that the OMT has reservations about this, because this works for people the idea that relaxation is possible when it is actually not. With virologist Marion Koopmans, my question to the Minister is whether we should not spend this money better, for example on extra vaccines, the health bonus, opening up HBO and wo or developing a line of defense, as virologist Koopmans calls it. By this she refers to a plan for how to deal with the threat of new viruses. We cannot allow this to happen again. Much has already been said about the vaccination strategy. We'd bet on age cohorts. If one cohort were finished, the next cohort would begin. The opposite is true, however. When we look at the states of the RIVM, we see that by far not all 90- and 80-plussers have been vaccinated, but that vaccination of the 70- and 60-plussers has already begun. People are confous, they don't understand anymore and they're afraid they're gonna be forgotten. From old to young pricks, as in England, seems a lot more efficient to us. If elderly people are already vaccinated, it is extremely difficult for couples to make an appointment together. Last time, the 50PLUS Group asked for this. The Minister indicated that partner coulance would be applied and that the staff of the GGD would be instructed on this. At a later stage he added the age limit of 75 years. However, we are still getting a lot of distressed reports from people that they still cannot make an appointment together. By the way, a lot of people don't know that age limit's on it. There is also a need for better communication on this issue. Moreover, we believe that couples aged 65 and over should be vaccinated at the same time. According to the GGD, they often come together. This will increase efficiency and reduce travel movements. I would like to hear from the Minister why this is still not settled. Just a few more questions. There's a huge absenteeism in care. The platform Extra hands for care currently has 6,406 people available who can and want to be deployed, and yet only 1,834 people have been introduced to healthcare organisations. Apparently, no match can be found. I'd like to hear from the Minister what it takes to use all these available people anyway. In addition to a health bonus, our healthcare professionals also deserve less work pressure. Paragraph 16 of the letter devotes a great deal to the mental health of young people. That is, of course, entirely justified. I also have children and see what it does to them that they can't go to school, can't work out and have much less social interaction with their friends. But what about the mental health of single elderly people living at home? These people have been at home for over a year, alone or at most with one visitor a day. Over the past covid period, I've spoken to many elderly people who live at home. In the beginning a lot was organized for them. Unfortunately that is already over. Can the Minister tell me about their mental health? And what does that do with their physical health? Why was the welfare and youth support package, to which 40 million goes, worked out in the letter, but I do not see anything about the development of a welfare and elderly support package? Money has also been made available for this. Can the Minister inform me of the state of play? Finally, I have said a great deal about this in my previous position: the current visitor scheme of only one visitor a day. This is extremely burdensome for many people, especially for elderly people living at home with vulnerable health. For example, many older people have been in social isolation for over a year. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also points out that it is hard for many people to understand that people meet in field labs in all kinds of places, but the visitor scheme for the elderly is not being adapted, especially since many elderly people have now been vaccinated. With due regard for all the corona measures and in the knowledge that older people have now been vaccinated, I would strongly urge that this be extended by means of a series of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u185	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Ploumen, because she has just saved me from falling into a hallway. My shoelaces were loose and she reminded me. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u187	This is recorded in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u188	Okay. I hope it doesn't go away from my time. Chairman and best people in the Netherlands. First of all, I would like to thank all the citizens who have e-mailed me their concerns and tips on this issue in recent weeks. As a member of parliament, that'll help you a lot. We can also perfect our input with that. I could keep a very long story here and ask the ministers many questions, but my predecessors have actually already asked all these questions. In short, it's very simple, sad but simple: the whole covid crisis is just a big mess. A Salland farmer asked me last week: "Does his-j doar all'maole have a reechie?" Which means as much as, do they remember what they're doing? BBB wants a long-term vision of a society with viruses such as COVID-19, viruses with a large social and economic impact as soon as possible. Stop padding and keep wet, but get clarity and, above all, perspective. Every year, 6 million flu shots can be pricked away by general practitioners without any problems, and we do not even reach half of the cost. And then the countryside. The Netherlands has more than 1,000 kilometres of land border. Cross-border workers, such as workers, farmers with land just across the border and school-based children from Groningen, Drenthe, Overijssel, the Achterhoek and Limburg, must be tested every three days in Germany. That's not workable. Our tests don't match the Germans. Is it not possible to make an exception form for them? No exemption is granted for quick tests that are not burdensome for humans, such as odour tests. That is why we will be tabling a motion for a waiver for non-antigen rapid tests. The most vulnerable groups are still not vaccinated, such as seriously ill young people living at home and those under 60 years of age suffering from underlying and high risk, but top athletes are. The pandemic has been going on for over a year and the care in the Netherlands is still not scaled up, while the cabinet indicates that we are facing a structural situation. Then you're negligent or you're not taking your own vision seriously. Take your pick. Road maps after opening up society change faster than the color of my leather jackets. How, for example, can a catering company respond to relaxation and persuade the bank to grant an additional credit? Healthcare staff will be promised €500 net on Princess Day 2020 and yesterday the Minister said that it is a real dilemma how high the healthcare bonus should be. Memory loss now also seems contagious in this missionary cabinet. Butter on the fish, we say. No better applause than just keeping promises. Also care workers are still not vaccinated, while we have to take care of the sick. Sporting is healthy for body and mind. In any case, let the youth teams of football, basketball and hockey play games again in their region from Saturday. This gives less risk than mass test events or MPs who are still allowed to eat here in the restaurant. There is a subsidy scheme for paid events in case of cancellation. They will be reimbursed 80% of the costs in the event of non-continuance of an event due to the corona measures. Free events are however excluded. How do you make that up? Should these events ask for 5 cents at the entrance to be eligible for this scheme? If companies are allowed to open up, make sure they have meaningful rules. Of course, up to 30 people on a terrace doesn't make any sense. There may be twenty terraces on a square with 600 people but not a terrace with 100. Whoever makes this up, we advise an internship in the hospitality industry, and then not an innkeeper's course but an innkeeper's course. Refund companies that are 100% close must also be 100% in their cost. That's fair. They didn't ask to close their doors. Finally, a final point about first informing the House of Representatives instead of leaking to the press. It is ridiculous that as MPs in De Telegraaf we should read the outcome of a Catshuis consultation or read in the press what the new measures will be. It is agreed that the Chamber shall first be informed. And don't say we can't, because we have a really nice tool for that and that tool is called WhatsApp. Just create an app group for 150 MPs, type a message, press "send" and we've all been informed at once. It's 2020, folks. Use the resources available. We are therefore tabling a motion in the second term to make this app group as soon as possible. And if I have to, I'd like to create that group. I'm pretty good at social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u189	Thank you. At least we have an administrator of this app group. The Minister asks if he can get in. That seems to me to be the case, because he has to inform the Chamber in the app group. I give the floor to Mrs Simons van Bij1 for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The sixteen previous speeches show a clear picture. Our corona policy is a succession of mistakes due to lack of the right vision. Anyone can watch it happen for over a year. The kitchen is on fire, but well, the bathroom doesn't burn yet, so we stay on the couch and meanwhile the bookcases smolder, the curtains burn and we all choke in the smoke. You could say that's just wrong estimates. But they were conscious choices. The choice was: as few infections as possible, or as many infections as the ic's can carry. Protect risk groups or let KLM fly. And maximum containment of the virus or immunity build-up by happy to let the virus go around. This cabinet chose a strategy that allows a maximum number of people to become ill, just as long as the last hospital bed is occupied, not to protect people's lives. Because by building immunity, society could be more open. That is what we have been told; that was the reasoning, and then the economy can continue to spin. But what turned out? Sending on ic-capacity, with the aim of building immunity, is detrimental to the economy, harming our well-being, damaging our freedom, damaging our health and costing us many lives. Yes, and the same choice to steer against as few infections as possible pending sufficient vaccines could have saved a lot of suffering and a lingering lockdown. This is what our young people feel, who are lonely and depressed, languishing away in their rooms. That's what the health care workers know who are in large numbers because of stress and burn-outs. And that is also something that the younger people in the risk groups and their carers, who have been inside for over a year now, are aware of. All because Rutte's wall around the risk groups turned out to be a prison fence of forced self-insulation. The cabinet asks for trust in the experts, but undermines its own support by leaning on an OMT that resists field epidemiologists and public health experts and is not representative of them, not only of society but also of disciplines. The most harmful, however, is the strategy that promises healthy people freedom by excluding vulnerable people. Mr. Chairman. There are three things that matter at the moment. 1. This cabinet must break with the current course and choose to protect everyone in society. 2. We in the Chamber must evaluate this strategy and its disastrous consequences. 3. The Netherlands must once again feel that the cabinet is there to support the inhabitants, with income schemes and mental aid. Mr. Chairman. And then there's the vaccination strategy. Last night's much discussed News hour broadcast showed a three-month reconstruction of vaccination mess. The cabinet has started too late, incomprehensible bureaucratic choices have been made, lobby groups are being bent and important organisations are not invited to the table. And as if all this is not enough, many 90-plussers in this country are waiting for an invitation while vaccines are on the shelf. This morning we heard: yes, human capacity is not the problem either. But what is the problem? Why can't the minister do it? We are all paying the price for this mischief and not just financial. This has to be accounted for in the long term. I would like to pre-sort on a parliamentary survey. There's got to be one. But first, this process must get on the right track. Does the Minister recognise that vaccination policy has failed so far? What's he gonna do to straighten it out? Mr. Chairman. This subject also comes back to the administrative culture that is nurtured here. The previous Chamber chose to give room to this cabinet, but taking everything into account I would like to ask ourselves, this new Chamber also ask: what is needed? How many more mistakes and chaos do we tolerate? The strategy was a fatal error and vaccination policy is an inimitable chaos. What's it gonna take for this Chamber to say, it can't go on like this? I am certainly counting on the previous Chamber to do so, but I also trust that this new Chamber will leave its hands at once to come out of this crisis with justice and solidarity. BET1 will support movements that stick patches, but it's an arterial hemorrhage as long as the minister continues to follow this path. Mr. Chairman. There is much more to think about, because we can also talk about the lifting of patents, the justice in the international distribution of vaccines, income schemes for sex workers, but yes, my speaking time is too short. However, BET1 will certainly ensure that these conversations are held at a later date. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u191	Thank you, Mrs Simons. The directors have indicated that they need about 45 minutes to prepare the response. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u192	I have just made some arrangements with Members in the Chamber and I can now give the floor first to the Prime Minister for his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good to see you in this position, as elected President. Good luck. Also desired success for the newly elected MPs and, of course, for Mrs Pouw-Verweij, who made her maiden speech today. Happy birthday and good luck to her too! For my part, I would like to try to answer a number of questions. I'll tell you what they're about. It is the idea that then Hugo de Jonge, the Minister of VWS, will address the questions related to vaccination and testing among others. Then Tamara van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care, answers the questions about the health bonus among others. I have four small cubes of my own, which are reasonably clear. Block one is about communication, two about the measures and three more specific about the outer space. Finally, the fourth block deals with the economy and its impact on businesses. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with this week. We had indeed hoped that it would be possible to see that we are getting over that peak and that the figures about the influx into hospitals are indeed falling. That piece was, of course, discussed in all kinds of places. That's how it works, because you have to tune it. Unfortunately, therefore, that date of 21 April began to live its own life. That is why I explicitly stated in the press conference that this is very annoying. It is, I must say, inevitable with this work that you tune it widely, but it is also annoying that such a date will then be leaked. That's why when it really didn't work out... That threatened last Friday and Sunday at the Catshuis it was actually very visible. Although it was not the same decision, we immediately brought it out. It does not mean that it is now being said that it will be 28 April. We're not saying that. We'll say, "We watch weekly." The next time is April 28th. If you can't, it'll be a week later. It'll be May 3 or 6th. That depends on how we deal with Tuesday 4 and Wednesday 5 May and what could then be done. So we're hoping for April 28th, but we're not sure. Then it should be visible whether we can and whether we are over that peak. Then the new inflow rates should also show a decrease. Mr President, I see Mr Wilders standing, but I actually have a few other things to say about this. Maybe I'll take that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u194	Exactly. It's a good thing you finish your point first and we'll...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u195	Okay, Mr. Chairman. By the way, Mr Wilders usually helps me to make all the points I would have liked to make, already in response to an interruption. But it's gonna get a little messy. That's just an introduction. Unfortunately it is not possible to do it on 21 April. It's gonna be April 28th at the earliest, because we're only gonna do it if we can. We are going to look at that again and again: we will look at the criteria I mentioned. Are you getting over the peak and are we actually seeing the new influx going down? Mr. Chairman. I'll go straight to the Security Council myself. This is, of course, an important body for us, because we must consult with the mayors of the security regions. I say this in response to Mr Van Haga, who asked about it. It is an important consultation and we are pleased that we can have that consultation with them. Mr President, perhaps I can answer the questions about the package right away. You can see that in the end we are now saying: we hope that something can happen on April 28th. But again, we certainly don't know. This is, of course, also the subject of intensive discussion with entrepreneurs. That was a question from Mrs Hermans. We are in very close contact with all social sectors. We do keep looking at that every week. It is not the case that we do press conferences every week, but it is our plan to review each week whether it is possible to take that first step at least. And again, we hope to do so by April 28th. But I am not giving a guarantee on that. In this context, the coherence of measures has been called for. You can go to the supermarket and the drugstore, but not to the solarium and the beauty specialist. Sorry, the solarium is closed and the beauty specialist is open. You can get on the busy train. Maybe I can say something about that. I do so in response to Mrs Marijnissen's question about the overcrowded trains. It is still intended that as many people as possible work at home. If the trains are getting fuller, I would like to repeat the call here to work as much as possible at home. That's spicy, but it helps enormously in the fight against the virus. If you look at the open plan, which is entirely congruent to the roadmap, we will take off in step 1 and step 2 the increases on level 4. Then, in steps 3 to 6, the roadmap goes back to the situation where there are no more measures. That is also the answer to Mr Segers, who rightly says: do not send on the date, but send on dates. He's absolutely right about that. What are we trying to do? Now that we're ready to vaccinate over 4 million and soon we hope to have put the 5 millionth shot in the backdrop of that vaccination rate, we also want to be able to say what, given the content you're sending, is a likely date on which you hope to achieve that. That's not a guarantee, but it doesn't seem crazy to us at all. But it's always a consideration of how you deal with it. The one-visit house arrangement is tough, I realize that. I very much agree with those who have said that. Of course there is one that you would like to let go in the first step. The same goes, of course, for increasing the number of visitors at funerals and weddings. You want to be able to scale up fairly quickly at a funeral from 50 to 100 and then in step 3 of the open plan you will look at the space there is to increase those numbers further. Finally in this block the many questions that have been asked about the outdoor air. After that, I'm gonna get to the economy separately. The core of the reasoning around the outdoor air is that when you open terraces, it doesn't mean that the people from the Vondelpark all go to the terrace. It means that there are actually more movements, that perhaps the Vondelpark is less full, but will still be full and that also the terraces become full. If that would lead to more infections in 160,000 infectious animals and against the 800 people in intensive care, although in the outdoor air and although it is true that there are fewer infections in the outdoor air, the risk is too great because of the crowds when opening the terraces, given the high numbers we currently have and the fact that we are not getting past that peak yet. We hope to do that soon, but we're still stuck with that big influx in the hospitals. We want to see them go down for a while. It is, in our view and also in the opinion of our advisers, too great a risk if we now create that space in that outer space. Because if you make a mistake now, I say finally, after that, I will, of course, deal with all the interruptions, President-in-Office of the Council, and this may lead to a sudden increase in the number of infections and that this will have an effect on hospitals. With the 800 people in intensive care, you can't actually take that risk. That's why you need to see that you're getting past that peak and those inflow rates are actually falling. It's different now than January 1st, when we sent on ten ICU shots a day. It is different now, because you are now in a completely different film, fortunately, because of the fact that so many people have been vaccinated in the Netherlands and that that number is increasing so quickly. Mr. Chairman. That as a background for those terraces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u196	Thank you. At least those were the first three cubes and then you go into the economy. I give the floor to Mr Wilders for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u197	This is supposed to be a debate and not a Castroian monologue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u198	Well, it lasted seven hours. This was ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u199	That's true. But, Mr President, I would like to say to the Prime Minister: look, the Netherlands is a little tired at some point. At least, perhaps not all of the Netherlands, but many Dutch. You need to stop promising things every time and not keep those promises and say "yes, it was too fast" or "it's because of the ic's." You have to think of that in advance! You said first of all that you are going to abolish that curfew. You promised the Netherlands that it would go away as the first step. In the meantime, I know how long that curfew has been around, and you've had a lot of chances of abolishing it, but you didn't. The same applies to the rest of the measures. First it was before Easter, then it was April 21st. We're not leaking that! If there's a leak... we don't even know that. If there's a leak, it's coming from your own cabinet. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: stop making promises to the Netherlands and then not keep those promises. Don't play with our freedom! Don't play with the survival of all those businesses in the hospitality business, in the retail business, those shopkeepers. Open up the Netherlands, because it's possible, Mr. Rutte! You can do a lot now, I say through the chairman, with all the protocols that are there, in all safety and with a chance of infection outside of which is almost zero. Do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u200	It is really irresponsible what Mr Wilders is saying here, really irresponsible. How can he say this when you see that there are 772 people in intensive care with corona today, that you know that you have limited capacity there and that at the same time you know that at the moment there are as many people contagious as at the worst peak in March/April? How can he suggest: "Oh, ignore all your advisors, ignore the risk, now open the terraces, now open the shops, now take off the curfew?" I'd love to, but you have to stick to a few criteria. We sincerely believe that the earliest time you can do that is, we're going to look at that per week, maybe April 28th, but then you have to see that you're getting over the peak and then you have to see that the numbers that are pouring in the hospitals are starting to fall. Otherwise it is really irresponsible, I say to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u201	And I say to the Prime Minister: don't fool the Dutch. Because not only does Mr Wilders say that, but there are doctors from hospitals who say that. In the meantime, there are mayors who say that. In the meantime, there are studies from Ireland that say: there is no dirt in the air outside when it comes to contamination. And indeed, what do you want, if immediately on King's Day or earlier the sun shines and everyone goes to the parks and clusters all together, while then the terraces are empty, while you can spread the people over the terraces... That doesn't lead to more infections, which leads to fewer infections. What you do, Mr. Prime Minister, by keeping terraces closed, for example, is to ensure that when the weather gets nice, there are more than fewer infections. That is why the mayors and doctors in hospitals say: to combat the pandemic and the number of infections, it is right to give people the freedom to go to the terraces when the weather is good. Listen to these people! If you don't want to listen to me, listen to these people. Those are your advisors, too. They say the opposite of what you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u202	That's not how it works. It's not like the Vondelpark is emptying when the terraces open. It is true what Mr Wilders says, that you are, of course, less at risk of infection outside. But if the crowds increase there by more movements, more people by public transport to park and terrace, more people on the terrace meet, more people also go in the toilet or get something, or whatever they do there... It leads to many more movements. I want it done as soon as possible. I agree with Geert Wilders. The fact that we say that we are going to look at it every week is also because it is absolutely our ambition. But I also say to Mr Wilders, who rightly has such a big heart for care: when you see that people there are working the snot in front of their eyes, that there are currently almost 800 people in intensive care... Fortunately it does not seem to rise very quickly for a few days now. That is in itself a very small first hopeful signal, but we really do not know whether it will be possible by 28 April; perhaps it will be more bleak in the next few days. That's why you have to look at it every week. But just because of his big heart for the care, I say, let's not take that risk. This also means that people who come in for heart surgery or cancer surgery are at risk of having to postpone the operation. That's why you shouldn't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u203	Finally, on this point. I do have a big heart for the care. I think we are helping the care, because what is the alternative? Two things. One. People are less and less following your rules, so they're going out anyway. They're gonna do it anyway, and they're gonna go to the parks anyway. You won't stop them. Whatever you say and whatever you think, they'll do it anyway. The people who do stick to it will then meet people at home, because fewer and fewer people also adhere to the measure of one visitor at home. Then it happens uncontrolled. Then you can't, like on a terrace, check that it goes by the rules. Then you have people at home, of which we already see that, albeit secondary, the majority of infections are still taking place there. If you want to help the people in care, you will have to make sure that people do not sit at home or go outside. Then you make sure that it can be regulated on the terraces, so that the terrace owner can comply with the rules and we have much less instead of more infections. That's a fair story. That's not a lame story. That's a story supported by doctors and others, by mayors. That's a meaningful story. I ask you to consider opening the terraces and throwing the Netherlands outside. That's good for the care, because it makes us less infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u204	Germany has more than half of the number of infections that the Netherlands has. That is what the debate is about tightening up rather than relaxing. Geert Wilders says... I know he has a big heart for care. We discussed this together in the campaign. I know he is sincere in that; I am also sincere in it. We don't have to take each other's measurements there. I appreciate that in him. I know that's true, but he's taking too big a risk in my eyes. Because you're at this point with such high figures that if you make a mistake right now, and you wouldn't get past that peak, and you wouldn't see that the influx is starting to fall in numbers, and you would then take this kind of expansion and come out of what I fear... it also leads to more cross-border traffic from abroad. A broader enforcement effort is needed. So there are also all kinds of secondary problems when you open up more outdoor space, regardless of the fact that it will lead to an extra sucking effect of people going out. That makes sense. I want it, too. Everyone wants it. It's really a risk and if it turns out that it increases those infections, you simply don't have the buffer to take it. That is why we say: do not do now, unfortunately another week wait. Maybe we should wait a little longer. I sincerely hope that we can say next week: by 28 April that whole step 1. But really, right now, I'm afraid to put my hand in the fire for that. We are going to look very carefully at figures for this, so that we do not take irresponsible risks in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u205	Mrs Ploumen and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u206	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is afraid to put his hand in the fire before April 28th. He mentioned 21 April before, and with that he offered people false hope. Hope is something to be very happy about and false hope makes us all grumpy. I'm trying to figure out that's also my question to the Prime Minister. What exactly are the data and dates on which decisions are taken to ease: step 1, step 2, step 3, step 4 and step 5. I can't tie a rope to it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u207	Of course, this has to do with the increase in vaccination rates. As far as step 1 is concerned, we are now asking the OMT for advice, also towards this weekend, on our criterion, namely that you should get over that peak, that you should see that the number of infections in hospitals is not increasing, but that the daily intake is decreasing. Then it's still not black and white. Then there will still have to be an administrative-political balance. Against the background of such an OMT opinion, we will decide on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u208	In January, the criterion was still ten ic-recordings per day. The Prime Minister says we're in another movie now. I wish. We are still in the same film, with a failing vaccination strategy, with a high number of infections reported every day and with a lot of people, 800 people, in intensive care. Against this background, the Prime Minister promises further relaxation in the press conference on Tuesday. That's offering false hope. It's just telling people something that's not true, and I'd like to ask him: just stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u209	I disagree with Mrs Ploumen. What we do is catch up with the Netherlands every time about what we know. What we know is that this is different from what we did in January: 4 million people and very soon 5 million people have been vaccinated. That means you're in a different movie than you were in January. We also see, of course, that the number of people who have now experienced the infection is considerable. Against this background, it is absolutely expected that in the coming months you will be able to take all these steps on the road to relaxation, also, of course, depending on how fast those vaccines will get through. There could always be delays. I also believe that this vaccination strategy stands like a house, but that it is faced with deliveries that sometimes do not go ahead and with side effects. Hugo de Jonge will discuss in more detail what that means for the approach, for example with AstraZeneca and also the risks that seem to arise with Janssen, which we are doing further research on. That can always be reason to make adjustments to the approach. That's inevitable. This is combating a pandemic based on vaccines that are very fast and well tested, but you also want to know if there are any side effects in practice. Of course, the expectation is now 4 million and soon 5 million. Then you have a different situation than in January. That's why we're saying, when can you take that first step? He's careful. Then you don't do anything crazy. You're still holding on to one person at 25 m in a store and you're not opening cafes and restaurants inside yet. You create a little more space outside and a little more space in the shops. We think that that step can be wise, but for that you have to see that you're getting over that peak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u210	My conclusion remains the same. It is completely unclear on the basis of which, what dates and data, decisions to relax are based, and thus, week after week, day after day, false hopes are created among entrepreneurs and citizens. The Prime Minister's just gonna go through with it, and I'd like to ask him, just stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u211	I will continue, and so will Hugo de Jonge, to keep talking to the Netherlands about what we know. If there are adjustments to what we know, because, for example, with vaccines there are developments that force us, out of care, to press a pause button for example, then we will also share this with the Netherlands. That's very wise, I think. Things are going very well with putting the first shot in the Netherlands right now. We also hope to move towards the 5 millionth shot soon. You'd love to have more vaccines available; of course that's really a point. But, of course, we are also dependent on how we operate at European level. I believe that we are doing the maximum in terms of vaccines, within the total volume, taking due account of all the care and good advice we get from the Health Council. We do good stock management, but we keep minimum stocks. In this way, we will be able to outline that perspective in the coming weeks. And we're about to have a very different situation on our way to June, July than we had in January, February. In that sense, they're actually in another movie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u212	Thank you. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u213	I have another question on this subject, building on Mr Ploumen's question. The Prime Minister said he agrees with me that you have to rely on dates, not dates. You need to focus on dates, not dates. For the time being, I note that we are talking more about a date, namely 21 April or 28 April, than about the exact dates. Well, that's a dilemma, isn't it? How can you indeed communicate about data in all clarity, where people can also say: okay, if this is the case, then it is not there on 28 April? Because I am also afraid of offering false hope. A second element of my question is how this can be improved at least in communication. You should not have that day after a press conference members of the OMT come out and say: this is a bad story, this is not clear and dates are not clear. I know we have freedom of speech, but still. How can there be more clarity in this communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u214	I get that last part. This also leads to raised eyebrows, but this is not entirely preventable in an open society. We'll do the best we can. And I think the mayors in there really have a special position. Those mayors, I totally understand, and they need to be able to talk about them in public. Then we'll talk about that very well. Fred Grapperhaus talked to the mayors about that last Monday. The mayors, I'm not blaming anything there. They should share their views, even if they have to be in public. And I know you'll eventually come back to common ground. We say here that on the basis of "week after week" you should see if you are actually hitting that peak. Do you actually see that day-to-day influx is falling? If that happens, you can take step one. At step 1 we do not suddenly open everything; that is a cautious step. You start with outside, because there are fewer infections there anyway. In the shops you release the measure of making an appointment, but you hold on to the one person per 25m. In higher education, it is a cautious step. I think it's acceptable, provided you can see you're hitting that peak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u215	For the sake of clarity, what is "going over that peak"? Is this about the ic occupation, the number of infections, the number of infectious diseases, the number of hospital staff? I'm asking for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u216	It's about hospital occupation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u217	It's said, let's send it on dates and not on dates. Then those data must be clear. It's still metaphorical: "it must be over the peak." But what exactly is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u218	This must therefore be seen in the fact that daily influx into hospitals is on average lower than in the previous period. We are now asking the Outbreak Management Team to advise us very specifically on how to measure this very precisely, in order to determine whether this is the case. There you see very cautious positive signals at the moment, but also very large bandwidths. Van Dissel described this in today's hearing. You seem to see in itself a certain plateau of the figures, but the fire width, also in an unfavourable sense, is still large. So that will force us to look very carefully this weekend and next week. You dare to take that step? Or are you saying, no, we have to wait another week, right? And then we will say to the Netherlands: it will be at least a week later. I still think it wise to do so and share it with the country. If you can't do it now, you have to say we'll look at it again in a week. And, of course, we should not take any risks with the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u219	I am indeed afraid that hope will be offered which will eventually disappoint you again. Then it becomes a kind of root that you are endlessly told and where you bump behind but where you never get nearer. Gommers says: we know that peak is coming and that it is still very difficult. So my question is: is it justified to start on 28 April? Shouldn't you be talking a lot more about those dates, and about making sure we still have a bump?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u220	That is, of course, also the discussion. Do you really have to wait until all 60-plussers are vaccinated before you can do anything at all? We think that this is going to be too tight and that you can take a cautious step if you see that you get over that peak. And the latter has to translate into that lower daily influx into hospitals. What Gommers is saying is, no, you should actually wait until the whole group of 60-plus has been vaccinated. Well, then, of course, you're a long way away. We think step one is careful. It is also more outside than inside, and inside, in the shops, it is no different that you can wait in front of the door, where you do not have to make an appointment in advance. It's a very cautious first step. We would dare to do so, but then we have to see if we do not have any further rising numbers in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u221	Thank you. Mrs Simons and then Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u222	I would like to come back to what has been discussed here between Mr Segers and Mr Rutte with regard to communication. Maybe I can take that back. We have 2.5 million low-literate students in the Netherlands. At the same time, we see a decline in support for the measures and a great deal of room for fake news. People are trying to convince people that corona is just a flu and that the measures are not necessary. In terms of communication, I am very curious to see what we can do to reach those 2.5 million people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u223	We do a lot of that through our communication departments. One of the innovations is that sign. Maybe you're thinking, "What's that sign doing there?', But one of the advices was: take advantage of the fact that millions of people are following such a press conference. There was a sign with WHAT: Hands Wash, Distance and let Test. That's what you say with icons. So we have an entire communication club that advises us. Then it's about social media, videos aimed at target groups, people who speak a different language; in what way can people best be reached? I think we are very good at that in the Netherlands. Mrs Simons and I may not always see that, because it is very target-oriented. My text during the press conference and also that of Hugo de Jonge we get rid of long sentences. We're trying to speak clearly. "Metaphors," I hear beside myself. The number of metaphors has also decreased at Hugo de Jonge. That works well, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u224	Then I wonder how Mr. Rutte indicates the discrepancy between the space that is found to not take the government messages seriously and what we can do about it ourselves as a government in terms of communication. There's a relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u225	Yeah, always, so you always have to see how you can improve it, based on all the information you get. We have very good people working on this, who are constantly thinking about exactly what Mrs Simons is saying. Some people reach you best in words, other people with pictures and others with combinations. It is also about language; all these issues. That's gotta be improving all the time. That's never perfect. I worked at a big company once. We said there: you know half the advertising money was thrown away, but you don't know which half. You keep trying to get better and better at that, based on evaluation and trying to draw lessons from what you're doing. One of the things I've learned in the past six months is: the sentences can't be short and clear enough, as few metaphors as possible and no weird jargon terms, because that makes no sense at all; just normal Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u226	Then there's a final remark. I hope that this wisdom from the business community has remained there. Because if we are satisfied in advance that half the money we spend has been thrown away anyway, that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u227	Very once, very once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u228	Following on from Mrs Simons. I was also interested in communication. The Prime Minister says we'd like to catch up with people about what we know. We can see that the press conference figures are falling steadily. I believe that at the penultimate press conference there were 5 million viewers and by now there are 4 million. How does the Prime Minister explain this rapid fall in numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u229	At this press conference, that very annoying fact was that April 21 was going to lead a life of its own. On Sunday we even communicated that to the media, because we absolutely wanted that misunderstanding gone and did not want to wait until Tuesday. The essence of the message was thus already known, namely: there can very unfortunately be very little on 21 April and at the earliest it becomes a week later. I think that's part of the explanation. I can't completely analyze it, of course, but I think that's part of the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u230	I think that another part of the explanation is that people are less and less complying with the rules, are less and less interested in the whole coronation process and are therefore less and less willing to look up the corona news and the measures. In addition to what Mrs Simons just said, how do you make sure you reach those people? How do you ensure that the results of such a press conference are shared? I have just made the suggestion that every press conference should send a very good text message to everyone, so that everyone is aware of it. I wonder how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u231	These are very far-reaching suggestions that I cannot easily weigh on the pros and cons. We will go into this in more detail in another letter, but I do not want to comment on it at this stage. It's not gonna work so fast. We're really gonna take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u232	Is there an interruption there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u233	The Minister of VWS says that this does not fit within the GDPR, but I think it can still be done through, for example, an AMBER alert. But I'm not sure. That's what you should be looking at. We're gonna find out if that's a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u234	I believe that in the beginning it even went through an AMBER alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u235	We did that once. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u236	I should like to return to Mr Wilders' first question. The Prime Minister gave the same answer to the question about terraces and outdoor spaces as he gave on Tuesday at the press conference. He said that if the terraces are full, that doesn't mean the parks are empty. There is now also between mayor's discussion about it. Some mayors have publicly stated that it creates an enforcement problem. On the other hand, you have the mayors of the big cities, where the homes are too small, the least urban green and the worries are the biggest. The question then is whether there can be no more happening. The decision on 28 April is about whether to open everything up. But what if the weather gets nice before? In this way, problems can arise rather because too many people are meeting in too few places. That is in large cities, but that is also in baker Piet in Elspeet, as we have just heard from colleague Stoffer. It's just in that one place that too many people get together. Municipalities can do more to regulate and spread that, if necessary through catering establishments that have distributed issuing points. After all, these people go out in good weather. That's what the Prime Minister said. Then without throwing all the terraces open at once, you can do more to actively spread, so not everyone is in that Vondelpark?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u237	I think that is a matter for the mayors, I say to Mr Heerma. I don't know if we should do that from here. I had a discussion this weekend with a mayor about the hustle and bustle on one of the beaches in the Netherlands. I said: yes, it is very annoying, but we cannot do the possible closing of those beach entrances or the closing of the parking spaces at the beaches from the cabinet. I'm just looking for what Mr. Heerma is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u238	It's funny that the Prime Minister brings up a beach, because the wall I once brought up was on a beach like that. But that beach was completely empty. Only, at the entrance of the beach was the only issue point where people could get something. All those people stayed there, stayed close together and waited, while there was that further completely empty beach in theory could have been better spread. Then it is not "we close everything and give everyone a fine" but: we are going to actively see how it can be spread out better. And yes, I understand that this is a responsibility of mayors. But the moment you have a Security Council where there's so much discussion, where mayors talk to each other about "it's a problem" and "it's not a problem," then the cabinet can actively engage with those mayors? The cabinet can think along with it, I'm going to get that wall again. How can these situations be avoided on those walls instead of just saying: yes sorry, that's your problem; figure it out? There seems to be a problem and it seems that this is experienced differently in different municipalities, but we have the common goal of preventing those large masses of people from drowning together at the time of the beautiful weather?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u239	I'll pick that up. We me, Grapperhaus and I also thought Hugo de Jonge had an appointment with a delegation from the Security Council on 23 April. We're just gonna put it on the agenda to see what lessons they can learn. There's the mayor I had that exchange with this weekend. You come very quickly in that sense Mr Heerma triggers this well in the division of roles: is it then my problem that it is busy on the beaches; arrange that yourself as mayor, because that is what you were of? The mayor says: yes, but you know, April 21st is coming out and now it's going to be April 28th at the earliest; how do you think I can fix it? That's the conversation you need to have. Fortunately, that always lands in consensus in the Netherlands: okay, we have to move on together. Some cities draw circles on the lawns and thus control the outer space. The question of what you can learn from each other and how we can support it in communication, I answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u240	My impression is that the first part of the answer you have just given is too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u241	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u242	My appeal is that the second part will also happen more on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u243	Mr Heerma is quite right: the first part is too much. "From two sides," he immediately spoke condoningly. That's not a big deal either. We drive robustly, but Mr Heerma is right: you ultimately want to have this substantive discussion on the second part. We're going to put the official listening on the agenda of the 23rd.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u244	Thank you. Mrs. Marijnissen, did you have an interruption? Now comes the fourth block:...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u245	I'm on the economy now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u246	...economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u247	Mr. Chairman. On that point, but for the sake of short-sightedness. It could just be that the formation would take a little longer than some had predicted right after the elections. The economy can't wait for that. So how do we look at that as a cabinet? Regardless of how long the formation takes, we must ensure that if the packages end in mid-year, then the formation is certainly not ready yet. We have had a discussion here in the Chamber on the basis of a cabinet proposal on how to proceed with the packages. That's one. Two. In any case, this cabinet, outgoing, will also have to consider it. We are also doing so at the moment on various issues. This concerns the issue of reducing corporate debt positions and building equity positions. It may also be the question of building up stocks, if this is not covered in the other arrangements. So again, how do we proceed with support packages after mid-year? Two. Debts and equity positions. These major issues will have to be considered by this cabinet anyway. If the formation lasts longer, this cabinet will, of course, take its responsibility to ensure that the questions of the longer term are addressed by us, again in a very close dialogue with this Chamber. That's about the main point. We feel, with the support of the Chamber, missionary on the medical side of the corona fight. I've said that before. That is also what we feel about combating the economic consequences and, by the way, the psychosocial consequences, where Hugo de Jonge might say something in a moment. I am talking about the economic consequences. I therefore make the distinction between the short and medium term. For the longer term, if the formation lasts longer, that's our deal. So that's not between ship and ship. I just want to say that here first. I hope that I will now speak in the spirit of the many Members of Parliament who have spoken about this. That is actually the answer to Mrs Ploumen's question on the recovery plan. This is, in our view, a short- and medium-term issue, but also a longer-term one. Of course, if you look at the longer term, that also affects some broader societal issues about climate change, about issues about mobility, and you name it. But once again, if necessary, we will also take a shot at it and talk about it in the Chamber. There was a very specific question about the guarantee scheme for events. Free events, I say in the direction of Mrs Van der Plas, of course have a different business model than paid events. Free events do not involve suppliers on the one hand and ticket sales on the other hand, i.e. proceeds from sales that have to be refunded again if the events do not go ahead. That is why we have chosen a different approach. I'll be on the Impact Management Team. Following Mr Segers' motion, JA21 was asked to do so in the debate. Running on that Segers motion, we've been weighing all the measures we're taking in full for a while. That means that we see this also in the pieces of the report, every time we take the cross-cutting test, on the economy and on social, psychological and social effects. That is what is happening in addition to the OMT's epidemiological advice. We'll do that, but we'll do it unsolicited if we need to. This is done on the basis of all the expertise that is present in the Netherlands at the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, at the ESC and at other planning agencies. You can also see it in the progress letter every time. Before we talk about measures in the Catshuis or in our ministerial committee, we first talk to Jaap van Dissel about the epidemiological picture. Then, when he is finished, we always talk to Kim Putters of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, who, on the basis of all the discussions he has had in this context, outlines how we stand socially and economically, which is the expectation of possible measures arising from the epidemiological picture and what that means for society. This allows us to make that broader consideration each time and we are not only rubber-stamping what comes out of the OMT. In any case, we must weigh that in administrative and political terms, in isolation, but also in connection with these broader issues of economy and society. Then I come to the question about the large business. That came along for a while, too. This is being discussed intensively at the moment, because they are a little outside of a number of existing regulations. So you're talking about the companies with a lot of branches. Blocker was mentioned. I do not know if it applies to them; I mention Blokker because the speaker mentioned Blokker. I am not sure whether they are being specifically spoken to, but at least with that type of company. So these are companies with a lot of branches. We are talking to a delegation from the wholesale and retail trade. They have also made proposals. It is being discussed intensively with Economic Affairs. It looks at desirability, feasibility and feasibility. I just outlined to you that we are working on the short- and medium-term approach. In this approach, this issue of the large branch company, i.e. the companies with 30 to sometimes 800 branches in the Netherlands, will be integral. I thought the SGP just made that point in the first term. Finally, Mrs Hermans asked what the basic principles of the aid package were in the third quarter. That affects the short and medium term. How do we proceed with the support packages? The decision-making process is now under way. We have very good discussions in the cabinet, but also with all the organisations in the polder. What I can say right now is that we will not suddenly stop supporting it. We're not gonna do that any way. This support has kept a lot of companies going. This also means that you expect many companies to get back on track when the economy can open up again. But nevertheless, they have had a massive year. Those packages are breathing away anyway. If a company recovers quickly, it will soon make less use of those support packages, because these are of course communicating vessels. Fortunately, you can also see in the analysis of the Central Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank that the economy has kept up well and that you can assume in a broad sense that the recovery will be decent, but you also have to take into account that certain sectors, and possibly also companies within sectors, are still being hit hard. And then it is very important for them to know their support. At the latest in mid-May, the cabinet will present a letter on the short and medium term. At the moment it is being put together by the finance ministers, EZK and Social Affairs and Employment, in cooperation of course with the whole cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u248	That's what brought you to the end of your fourth block. There are a lot of people who want to ask a follow-up question. I have noted this order: first Mrs Marijnissen, then Mrs Westerveld and then Mrs Van der Plas. Maybe it's useful if these three people walk forward first, then some cleaning can be done. Then Mrs Pouw-Verweij, Mr Stoffer and Mrs Simons. Mrs Marijnissen first of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u249	My question to the Prime Minister is: how is it possible that the cabinet intends to transfer a billion euros to the business community for the commercial amusement tests, but that the message seems to be to healthcare providers: the €500 bonus you are promised, sorry, it is too expensive?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u250	This cabinet must always do and-and do. It is also a broad wish in the Chamber to look at how to create space in areas based on experiments, by means of quick tests and self-tests, that whole range of tests, before the economy is open again, and then roll them out. That's one "and." Another "and" is that we made agreements here, on the basis of cabinet proposals, to partially withdraw last year's bonus in 2021. Of course, you also run into problems in the implementation. These are issues that we all need to face. It's not: you do one thing and the other you don't. It's all got to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u251	Supervague answer: we run into problems in execution. Okay. And that's why a health care provider can't get the bonus that's been promised? This is, of course, again not good for the confidence that people can have in politics. Those caregivers have been promised that bonus by this cabinet. It was a wish from the Chamber, but this cabinet promised it. And now the cabinet just says, "Sorry, guys, but it's too expensive." That's nice: and-and, but that's the reality. The reality is that there is apparently a billion euros available to business, but the cabinet does not want to honour its own promise. It is nothing new to give caregivers that bonus they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u252	The Minister for Medical Care is about to discuss the health bonus in detail, but well, perhaps the Prime Minister would also like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u253	Indeed, Mrs Van Ark will deal with this in a moment. I repeat the previous answer. And why do I do that? Because I really do. At the moment, you can see that tens of billions of public debt have been added, because the government in charge of companies, civil society organisations, museums, theatres, has given support to keep the country alive, in one of the worst crises. If we had done what some parties wanted in recent years, namely to eat the apple for thirst all the way when the sun was still shining, it would not have been possible. Luckily, we didn't. That apple for the thirst was there. We ate it for an important part now, but fortunately there is still some flesh on it. That cost tens of billions, and it had to be, because that way you could get the economy, our theatres, our museums, our companies, through the crisis as best as possible. Now you are once again faced with new issues that follow on from them, namely: now that society is not yet open, also a broad wish of the Chamber, what is possible in the context of testing, testing, testing? Mr Klaver has often referred to this, like Mrs Marijnissen herself, her party, many here. What can you do to create space again in society to make things possible? The Van Gerven motion has also been mentioned. That's one piece. Things have to happen for that. Then you're gonna look at the principle of profit. You're gonna let people pay or not pay if they need to be tested? "Pebble" and "Pebble" "Pebble" On the other hand, you have the big question of appreciation for the people in care. That too must be done. Of course, it's a bit like Arts and Car. If you're going to link two nouns, two concepts, you're going to get really weird magazines, but also weird political debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u254	I think the Prime Minister said a few minutes ago: I'm going to use fewer metaphors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u255	But this is where I did it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u256	I hear "Arts and Car" and I hear "apple and pulp." Just be honest! Healthcare providers have been promised a one-off bonus of €500. The cabinet intends not to honour that promise, and that is simply not fair. You can't do that. Then the Prime Minister comes up again with the well-known story about the apple for thirst, which we have of course heard ten times before. He says we're already spending billions. Yeah, we're already spending billions, yeah. This is partly done with the support of the SP. But even when it comes to the KLM, for example, I'll just mention a few things: the billions are flying out the door...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u257	Yeah, 30,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u258	... but none of that's a problem. Bonuses for the top, for example: none of that is a problem. We can do all that, but if we simply have to keep a promise to healthcare providers, then the care is told: billions have already been spent; there is no money. That's just shameless, isn't it? It's not only shameless, it's also just a blow to the face of care. I also find it irresponsible, because that promise has been made and this cabinet simply has to keep its own promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u259	Mrs Van Ark will go into this in more detail, but with the healthcare bonus you will be able to pay out €500 on one of the options. But then you have to make certain choices. We see that it is very difficult in the sector to say: they do not. Not everyone has had to work the snot in the context of corona. A lot of people do, and you want to give them the health bonus. If that does not happen, we also have to deal with how much this Chamber has budgeted for that healthcare bonus. That's over 700 million. I also think it is normal that we have this debate here: given the choice we made earlier, can we limit the group slightly to the people who have actually had direct or indirect patient contact, or are you going to the whole healthcare sector, which means a lower bonus? I don't think that's a crazy debate to have. Let's talk about KLM. 30,000 jobs are 30,000 very good reasons to provide support. Indirectly, hundreds of thousands of jobs depend on Schiphol. So there too, and-and: you have to support the café on the corner, but you also have to make sure that some of the most important location factors of the Netherlands, such as Schiphol and our aviation, stand up, because we know that these are an important reason for companies to settle here and want to be here. They create a lot of jobs here. At the moment, the Netherlands in Europe is pretty much the country with the lowest unemployment, despite the terrible crisis we are in. We are even a full percent below Germany. Of course, I am also very concerned about what will happen if the economy starts up again. Hence the need for all aid packages in the short and medium term and the need for a new cabinet or cabinet to be able to manage the policy well in the longer term. But it has to be and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u260	On the previous point, of course, the Chamber does not want to make that choice. We got a letter containing two options, which we have to choose from. That is, of course, Mrs Marijnissen's point, but I understand that we will discuss this with Minister Van Ark later. My question is about the medium term. How are we going to get out of this? The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the The outgoing Prime Minister mentioned, among other things, the economy, but of course we also have education. That's what I said in my term. Yesterday we really received an alarming report from the education inspector. The inequality between children has already grown and the lack of teachers has become severe in recent years, but we know that the corona crisis is making a difference. There aren't just kids at home. There are also children who need extra support, and those are the children who are still lagging behind because of the corona crisis. I would ask the outgoing cabinet to take this into account in the coming years. One more point, Mr President. I know that there is an aid package of 8.5 billion. That's a lot, but that's going to be there for the next two years and we know you won't be able to move forward with a package for the next two years if you want to invest in the teacher shortage and hire people at your school. Then something must happen in the long term. I'd like to ask if the Demissionary Cabinet has any interest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u261	I agree with Mrs Westerveld from a to a, and also with that 8.5 billion, but part of the answer is that structural issues also emerge. And some of the parties in the campaign have talked about the opportunity crisis, others have pointed out where we are at the moment in those international lists of maths and language, on which we are not exactly rising. Other parties have pointed out that "you cannot guarantee the outcome, but you do want to guarantee the start." I think we are all following the recent sociological literature on these issues, for example that beautiful book The Meritocracy Trap, which I was recommended by Lodewijk Asscher the other day, which also offers a lot of tools to look at these issues in the longer term. So I agree with Mrs Westerveld from A to Z.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u262	First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Rutte's remark that not everyone in the care is getting rid of the snot. All the people in care get rid of the snot before their eyes. And that's not only in corona time, that's before that too. My husband was in the hospital with pancreatic cancer, unfortunately died of it. At that time, I received very great admiration for people in care. At the time there were deficits, there was too little appreciation at the time, so I would very much like Mr Rutte to take that back at least, because I find it an insult to people who work in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u263	If I had made that remark, I would take it back, but I did not make that remark, Mrs Van der Plas. What I said is that now with this bonus, very specifically, you look at the people who have delivered a heavy extra performance when it comes to corona directly or indirectly. That was my point. I totally agree with Mrs Van der Plas. My own father died of pancreatic cancer, too. And of course, we all have our terrible personal experiences. And then we see how fantastic our health care is, so Mrs Van der Plas doesn't have to teach me a lesson in that. I totally agree with her; and she with me and I with her. The point I was talking about in the context of that bonus is that it was made to mark the difference between those people who in any case deliver a top performance in care and those who, because of corona on top, from patient transportation, cleaners to people in intensive care, medium care et cetera, nursing homes, ggz, have made extra efforts. And then you come to a question of demarcation. Politics is also making choices. And what you see is that it is found very difficult in the sector to make those choices, which ultimately says: yes, then everyone. And we are also simply dealing with the budgetary rules and the agreements we make with the Chamber; over 700 million budgeted. That's not enough if you want to give everyone that bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u264	Well well, if that remark is not made then I One more thing, though, that was about the events. I said that if free events are not eligible for that fee and paid elements are, that of course does not mean that those organisers of those free events do not incur any costs. That is why my question was: should these people simply symbolically ask for 5 cents of access to be eligible for the costs, or should all the events that are cancelled be reimbursed? That seems simpler to me, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u265	No, that's not gonna work, because the deal we made is: only pay off events that have been organized over the past two years, when there were also paid events. Only they are eligible for the scheme. Why do you make a choice for paid events? Because then you have to deal with what I said: another business model. For example, you are dealing with suppliers on the one hand, and on the other hand also ticket sales, i.e. proceeds from sales, which must also be refunded if the events do not go ahead. So I also find it very annoying to say free events, for which no access is requested; of course they are also greatly affected. But here too, I think, we should also make choices in politics. And here I have set that limit, namely paid events that have also been organised over the past two years. I also think it is a justified distinction. And that's our job to always make a distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u266	Finally. It's just equal monks, equal hoods. This is the same with the fees paid to entrepreneurs who have had to close their business: it has not been their choice; it is simply 100% compensation. And I understand that choices have to be made, but that results in a country becoming more divided. People are not eligible for compensation. Often these are even very bureaucratic rules, where they started or stopped a day later, and then they are already not eligible. We at BBB simply argue for a 100% fee, both for the entrepreneurs and for the paid and the free events. Those people make a lot of money, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u267	I get that. At the moment, we are seeing tens of billions in public debt being pushed up, and for good reason, because that is how we are trying to keep this country from culture to business, education and health care; terribly important thing is to keep it as well as possible. But I do plead for it here, and I think it is very justifiable that you do make choices in there. I think that's our job, too. If you would now say that we are also going to bring the free events below, that sounds very nice. I also have a lot of sympathy for the people who organize it. Those are volunteers who are also working day and night to organize this kind of thing. But this is not the case with the abolition of ticket sales. This also applies almost always, also because they are free of charge, that the costs, including the costs incurred for suppliers, are of a very different level from those for paid events. That's why that choice was made. I really think that's justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u268	Okay. So I understand well that if someone wants to organize a free event right now, they'd better just charge an entry fee of 5 cents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u269	No, because it must have been organized two years ago. So that doesn't work anymore. The rule is: it must be an event that has also been organised in the last two years. So you can't ask for five cents now and still get money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u270	Your fifth question, Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u271	Well, I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u272	Look. Then I have Mrs Pouw-Verweij, Mr Stoffer, Mrs Simons and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u273	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer to my question about the impact management team and Mr Segers' motion on this. It wasn't quite the answer I was hoping for. I heard the Prime Minister say that the cabinet itself makes the decision to take the economic and social consequences with it. I should hope so. I hope that the Segers motion was not necessary for that either, but that it was before then. I also heard one name fall; that was Mr Putters' name. I'm glad he's thinking along! But I interpreted the motion as follows. The point is that on the one hand there is an OMT dealing with the virological and epidemiological side, the more medical side. And there must also be some kind of equivalent team that can advise on the other aspects of this crisis in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u274	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u275	I would like to repeat my question. This motion was passed a year ago. What has been done to realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u276	It's been executed. The joint planning agencies we have in the Netherlands; these are the PBL, the CPB and the SCP maybe advise us on the social, social and economic effects. Kim Putters is in charge of that trial. They do that asked and unsolicited. Every time we come to the question of what should be the next step on the basis of the epidemiological picture, for example in the field of action, we first discuss in detail in our ministerial committee, but also in the informal Catshuis, what is the social, social and economic picture that results from it. We also discuss how they look at the possible measures to be taken, especially if you are scaling them up. In doing so, we are more than carrying out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u277	I do not entirely agree with the Prime Minister. We had a technical briefing this morning. It lasted a few hours. In it we have been able to speak extensively with several members of the OMT. I'm so glad that's happening! It's very nice that we can talk about the medical content. I really like that myself. I didn't see anyone there from the other side who could talk to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u278	Well, invite them! That's what you're about, isn't it? That's not up to me. Then you should invite them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u279	We can do that through the procedure meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u280	My question would then be to the Prime Minister: do you really think that you have given substance to this, that the same weight has been given to that opinion? Okay, then we're not gonna agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u281	Yeah, absolutely. That's what I think. It's very tight. There's a pandemic. This means that the pandemic is primarily a public health crisis. From this public health crisis you have to take measures that unfortunately are mainly related to limiting contact moments because of this pandemic. 'Cause then that virus won't jump over. So that's your first flight route. From that approach, the Segers motion says: "Make a map of the social, social and economic effects, both of the crisis as such and of the measures you are taking." That's what we do. I find these speeches very inspiring. They're helping us, too. We are also looking, through the dg Covid, Mark Roscam Abbing, at the medium- and long-term effects for the Netherlands and what we need to do. In fact, I would strongly recommend this. I'm not going over it; though, I'm also a Member of Parliament now, so I can say it now. Let's do that as a room, may I say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u282	I'm glad we can work this out together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u283	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u284	Thank you. Mr Stoffer, then Mrs Simons and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u285	I want to compliment the Prime Minister. He wouldn't have had that today, I think. He takes his role as MP so seriously that he even answers a question I asked in an interruption to the VVD. Compliment for that! But we're gonna talk about the content. I heard it was about Blokker. I also mentioned Scapino, those kind of shops. The situation is really super poignant. In the first quarter, those cases were completely closed. They are shops where 300,000 Dutch people work in an ordinary job with an ordinary salary. The scheme, which was further developed with EZK during the week, means that a franchisee, independent entrepreneur of such a formula, can receive up to €850,000 in compensation. That's an extreme. But if you have a number of branches in the same chain, you get €2,000 to €4,000 per branch. That's how big the differences are. It's hard to sleep. I got that in last night and thought, "This can't happen, the water's on their lips and it's gonna go wrong." That's why I asked if the VVD thinks that's terrible and if the VVD also thinks it should be chefsache if EZK doesn't come out. So I am speaking to the Prime Minister as captain of the ship of state. Do you agree with me that this cannot be done and that this simply needs to be corrected properly? It is not a question of paying 100% for everything, but of being equal for every store, because it is about the jobs of the people who work there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u286	I'm gonna give you a very precise answer. I think the VVD agrees with your argument. Mrs Hermans can confirm that or not, I am not in charge of that. But from the cabinet; I'm just gonna stand here for a while. Your speech resonates. That's why I've obviously gone into it uninvited. I thought it was a question to me. What's going on here is this. I mentioned Blokker, but I can't name companies. So I cannot say whether or not Blokker is part of the talks, because those companies may not want to say that at all. You mentioned Blokker, which is why I repeated the name Blokker. Even for the record: it is not said that Blokker is part of those conversations. The company can only say itself whether or not they are. We have to deal with that carefully. But now to the content. For the larger companies, the possibility of tailor-made aid through the balancing framework for aid is available to individual companies. The large business obviously has more opportunities to obtain financing through the capital market. That's one thing you have to think about all the time. For example, we have the Warranty Corporate Finance Corona. Minister Bas van 't Wout van Economische Zaken en Klima currently talks intensively with industry organisations and entrepreneurs from, among other things, the large-scale retail business. I thought Mona Keijzer was involved, too. These consultations reflect on the problem of the larger retail chains, which we are talking about here. That could be chains with 30 stores, but also with 800 stores. There is also talk of solutions. In addition, there have been discussions with a number of individual retail chains, to gain more insight into what is going on there and what the solvency position of these companies is. A delegation from this large retail sector has submitted a proposal for aid to the retail trade to Economic Affairs. This is now being assessed precisely in terms of the desirability, feasibility and feasibility. That's what we're gonna be doing in the next few weeks. As I said, the cabinet intends to give birth to the letter on the broader economic picture beyond this crisis, for the short and medium term, by mid-May at the latest. That letter will address this issue in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u287	This offers a little light in the darkness. My information was from last night, at 10:42 p.m. I'm also very precise. That information was certainly not encouraging. I've had a lot of contact with a whole group of companies like this in the last few months. I'm assuming the Prime Minister has that, too. I understand it's chefsache by now. If there is a letter in May, I assume that it is not the case that one company comes out at €850,000 and the other at €2,000 to €4,000. It's not about depositing money into big companies, it's about keeping those 300,000 jobs in the air. That is what I am concerned about, and I think that is what the Prime Minister is about, at least that is what I am assuming. If we agree it's gonna be and he's gonna be tough on that, I'm gonna see a tiny bit of light in the darkness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u288	Still, about that beautiful concept of "chefsache." We do not have a presidential system and I do not have the position of a German Chancellor, so that I can give instructions everywhere. I'm a humble chairman of the Council of Ministers, but in this case, I know Bas van 't Wout is working on this. In that sense of course everything is ultimately chefsache, but it doesn't mean that I have to do it all myself. We are trying to find a reasonable answer to this. It is not easy and I cannot therefore entirely make Mr Stoffer's conclusion mine. But we agree on the direction. I have to put it very precisely, so that it does not appear in the Acts: Rutte agrees with exactly what Stoffer indicates here as the final result. But I do agree on the direction, because this is a big issue. It is a lot of jobs and we must also look very carefully at whether we are spending public money properly, because, again, they are also companies that, because of their size, have special opportunities on the capital market. You have to consider that, too, and so you have to look at the pluses and the minuses every time. But then, in my opinion, there is still a big problem on the screen and we are trying to bring that problem further at gunpoint over the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u289	For the time being, I think it seems to be going in the right direction. If not, I will be here for a few more years, and at that time I will strongly appeal to MP Rutte or Prime Minister Rutte that we are going to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u290	Thank you. I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u291	I would like to ask Mr Rutte about a group of entrepreneurs who have not been able to get to work for a year. That group has not received any compensation and I am talking about the sex workers. I am very curious why they have not yet been discussed. Is the Prime Minister of the Demissionary Cabinet aware that this policy leads to dangerous situations and that people literally fall over?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u292	I'm not aware of that in detail. I say over the microphone: "Officials, pay attention. You followed the debate. Give me the latest information." So I am not asking Mrs Simons to do that, but to the officials, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u294	...I can fully serve her in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u296	This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term. We're gonna suspend for... Sorry, Mr. Van Haga. The best horse in the stable!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u297	Well, I wouldn't say that, and I don't think the Prime Minister would agree with you immediately. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister about our test society. We are opposed to that. I am sure that Mr De Jonge will deal with this later, but I would also like to know what he thinks of Mr Rutte. There are a number of problems with it. I asked Jaap van Dissel this morning. It is a fundamental change in our society and you, Mr Rutte, are very much in favour of it, because then we can open up again. My first question is about the rapid tests, because they are even more unreliable than the PCR test. Especially in the case of low prevalence, a lot of false positives emerge from this. We're going to test healthy people, and that's why I'm asking you if this is the right route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u298	If you have any complaints, you're not gonna do a quick test or anything. Then you just go to the GGD Test Street. So you're talking about people who don't have complaints. Mr President, I have not prepared myself for this in detail and I note that Mr De Jonge has been looking forward to this question. Mr Van Haga is leading me into an alley where I will no longer be able to leave it to Mr De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u299	Do you agree, Mr Van Haga, that the Minister of VWS should answer these questions about vaccination and testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u300	I totally agree with what he's going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u301	Of course. If the Prime Minister hasn't prepared and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u302	Not on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u303	...Mr. De Jonge does, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u304	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u305	Thank you. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a single moment, so that we can clean up for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u306	The Minister has two cubes. I'd like to ask him to finish the whole block of vaccination first. Then the MPs can ask questions. Then the block will be tested. I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to ask a really short question in the event of interruptions, so that hopefully we can have dinner break at a somewhat normal time. I look forward to your cooperation. I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u307	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the order: vaccines, tests. Then I have a few more questions about vulnerable people, which I have to do. With vaccines, there's a lot of questions. Now I can do them all in a row, but then we have castro-like proportions. I do not know if that will help the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u308	Maybe it'll be useful to start. Then I look at the room to see if there is a very urgent need to interrupt. Many questions have been asked in themselves. Let's do it halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u309	What I could do is first everything about AstraZeneca separately and then everything about Janssen. Then I'll do all about a medical indication, the surplus, the delay of the second shot and everything about deliveries, supplies, etc. Finally, a few other things. Then let's just cut it up into sub-items. Do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u310	That sounds good to me. I'll look into the room. Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u311	I've been able to organize the Prime Minister's entire first term. It would also be a shame to confuse that order now. Mr. Chairman. First, AstraZeneca. We all know that vaccination is our way out of this crisis, and if we can do it faster, if we can hear ideas where it can be done faster, then we can't actually suppress our enthusiasm for those ideas. I acknowledge that and I share it with everyone. But the other way around. If there are bumps on the road, even though we know they can be coming, then we are disappointed and we are afraid that this will lead to a delay. That certainly applies to a message like that about AstraZeneca. Hence the unrest of the last week and a half. In response to the questions put by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Dassen, among others, I think it is appropriate to explain why it was necessary to take this decision. I was informed on Good Friday by the Side Effects Centre that there were then five cases of that extensive thrombosis. Not just a thrombosis, but an extensive thrombosis, in combination with a tendency to bleed due to a low platelet count, which is called thrombocytopenia by experts. That's a very rare disease, which we knew was the prevalence, the incidence of which was very low. We also hadn't put so many AstraZeneca pricks at all. A little over 400,000, of which about 200,000 are under 60. In this combination, however rare, the incidence was higher, with five reports still higher than could be assumed to date on the basis of the EEA figures we had. This has led me to consult with the experts of the CBG, Health Council and RIVM and to come to the choice to press the pause button. A week later, after the EEA and also the Health Council had looked at it again, it turned out to be right. Internationally, too, the incidence of this very rare disease below 60 appeared to be somewhat higher than in the population at all. In recent times, of course, the question has often been asked: couldn't you have come to another choice? Couldn't you just go on Good Friday and wait for the EEA to come up with his report? Yes, I could have, but I think that would have taken a risk with the vaccination readiness. I think that people can expect their Health Minister to act if the systems we have before that, for example the side-effects registration, send a signal that there is a side-effect in a part of the target group that you would like to prick with AstraZeneca. We got the EEA report and the advice from the Health Council. I found, and I think, that is very clear advice. Of course, you're on Good Friday before a dilemma whether to press the pause button or not, but I think the advice of the Health Council is extremely clear: you see a higher incidence of this disease image, which is a rare disease, but nevertheless a higher incidence in people under 60, especially in women, but that's also because we have pricked women with AstraZeneca in particular. On the other hand, however, the risk of serious disease due to corona or the risk of mortality is, of course, very much lower in people under 60 than in people over 60. In short, you really come to another consideration there, precisely because there are also alternatives. Above 60 it is an effective, but also just a safe vaccine. Over 60 so just continue with AstraZeneca: a very clear advice from the Health Council. I took that advice, of course. This meant that from that moment on I had to come up with an alternative for a number of groups, namely an alternative to those groups that would have to be pricked with AstraZeneca in the short term. This concerns people with a BMI above 40, people with Down, less than 60 years old and not living in an institution because they have already been there and a number of other groups that now counted on AstraZeneca. I had to figure out a way to do that. After a few days, this was very intensive consultation by the RIVM with all the implementing parties, in which VWS was of course also involved. This means that we have come up with an alternative for all these groups. It is important to say that this and its content have made the right choice, just for safety reasons, for precautionary reasons, and that, in addition, because of the choices we have made in making an alternative vaccine available, we have been able to ensure that this does not have a major impact on planning. I think this is an important comfort for everyone who was worried about: are we going backwards in speed now? No, it is not, either in order on the main lines or in the planning. At the end of May, the second half of May, we just managed to get the 60-plussers and the people with a high medical risk vaccinated, and at the beginning of July to give everyone the first shot, because we have enough alternatives for people under 60 years of age.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u312	This brings you to the end of the subject of AstraZeneca?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u313	Then I'd have to add a few more, because then we'd all have had them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u314	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u315	Mr Dassen asks: how do you avoid taking a risk because of that break, because of the uncertainty and the unrest that it gives, and how do you prevent vaccination from decreasing? Yes, that is indeed an important consideration, but I have considered the following: if we do not do this and say "nothing to do with people, just piercing', but if a report shows "no, there is definitely reason to get advice for people under 60 different', then that would have put much more risk for vaccination readiness. People can count on their health minister to act as a precaution if that is the case. Then there was a question from Mr Paternotte, which was supported by a number of others, including Mr Wilders. Couldn't you just come to a choice? Mrs Ploumen also suggested this. Couldn't you just come up with a choice for the people under 60? I would like to say first of all that we cannot afford it for the time being, because we simply need the vaccines for people over 60. They're good vaccines. They're safe vaccines. People over 60 are at greatest risk, so we need to keep the AstraZeneca vaccines available for the time being for people over 60. We certainly have a lot of work to do until the end of May, and so we must continue to do so. Yeah, but what about the groups that would be pricked in the short term because of their priority? Yeah, but they have an alternative. We've already come up with an alternative to that, so it doesn't. Yeah, but what about the people under 60 who would want to take that risk themselves? I'm willing to work out those types of scenarios, by the way, it's only as of the end of May, early June interesting, but I honestly think that by then taking the option "Astra under 60" would be less interesting for them. Why? Because Astra has a longer interval and I think people would like to be ready for the holiday. I think that by then most people under 60 would like to have a different vaccine than AstraZeneca, regardless of the medical risks and the informed consent. Then Mr Wilders asked: what alternative is there for people over 60 who do not want AstraZeneca? I can really only offer an alternative to that when we are done, because if I am going to make a choice model for that now, then I am sure that will slow down. I'm not gonna do that for people over 60. We can't do that until the end. We have endlessly many vaccines, so they remain available. Only then can people who do not now choose the first vaccine offered be able to use it. Mr President, I think I have had all the questions about AstraZeneca.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u316	I have noted: Mr Paternotte, Mr Wilders, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Westerveld. First of all, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u317	Mr Van Delden indicated this morning at the briefing that he had spoken to general practitioners who have been pricking 68-year-olds. There are of course people from 70 who can now, depending on the place in the country, be scheduled for the Pfizer pricks. So there is a moment quite quickly that such a general practitioner who has AstraZeneca in the fridge has poked his own practice. Should he throw Astra away at that point, or can he see if he can offer it to people under 60 willingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u318	No, not that last one, but certainly not the first one. We shouldn't throw away any vaccines, please. We have 5,500 GPs to deliver and very limited AstraZeneca deliveries this week and next week. These are all very weak weeks in terms of delivery of AstraZeneca. In short, we have lean deliveries in the coming weeks, let me call it that. We still have a lot of work to do. General practitioners still have a lot of work to do in the group from 60 to 64. We agreed that if general practitioners have more vaccines than 60- to 64-year-olds in their practice, then prick them up. There is the greatest need for protection. So they're gonna do 65-, 66-year-olds, et cetera. The GDPDs are indeed working agewise from top to bottom. They're with the 70-year-olds. They were invited last weekend. I think they took off a message today that also the 69-year-olds... I actually have to call it years of construction, so I think they're at 1952 right now. Of course, that crawls towards each other. But it really takes a while before those vaccines have all actually come into use. So it's about making appointments. Before those vaccines are actually used, we are really a long way away. By the way, of course, you also need those Astra vaccines for the people who have had a first shot of Astra. They also need a second shot of Astra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u319	That's right. My aunt is from 1952. Yes, he did schedule the shot with Pfizer today. Mr Van Delden said that he knows general practitioners who are pricking 68-year-olds. So that gap is already closed today in some places in the Netherlands, at least in terms of planning. That doctor will have AstraZeneca in the fridge. The Minister is talking about the end of May. But in many places, the situation will really arise sooner that you wonder what you can do with the Astra stock you have. The central point is, of course, that there are quite a lot of vulnerable people in the Netherlands who say: I am looking at these figures, I see the warnings, I see that very rare side effect, but for me it is possible to get out of isolation. Then you also have an ethical question, namely: are you willing to say that if those people are well informed, preferably by their general practitioner, they will be able to make that choice later? Of course, it's fine when people say: I don't have to anymore. If there's anything better available, that's fine. But are you willing to give people that freedom of choice? That, of course, is also an ethical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u320	Sure. It's a medical-ethical question. The first thing I would like to answer is that I think the assumption is incorrect that we have Astra before the end of May, in the sense of: no longer needed for the prioritized target group. Two. I think we should always stay as close as possible to the vaccination strategy. Why? It's built entirely on medical vulnerability. I shall come back to this later in response to questions from Mrs Ploumen, among others. In doing so, the Health Council of course indicated very clearly and substantiated that the medical indication is almost always age, with the exception of a number of other groups. I'll get back to you on that. Would AstraZeneca vaccine be left before the end of May? The answer is no. Am I willing to think about different scenarios from that time on? One of those scenarios could be to offer a choice option to people when you no longer need AstraZeneca for the vaccination strategy as you have established it. Then I'm sure I'm prepared to think about that. I think there are several scenarios imaginable. I'm gonna work that out and I'm gonna get back to you on that. By the way, it's still a huge puzzle in the execution: who's going to do it, who wants to do it? It is very doubtful whether general practitioners would like to add this, for example. What if GPs don't do it? If the GGDs add up, it's probably not going to increase speed because then you add an extra complexity. I think, by the way, that is my theorem of the fact that it is not very interesting for the people themselves at the time, because all the other vaccines are better alternatives than AstraZeneca, especially because of the puncture interval. In short, yes, I am willing to work out a scenario, but I am willing to do so from the moment that we no longer need Astra for the pricking strategy in the order it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u321	I am of course helping the Minister, but if I have seen anything in recent weeks, it is that there are a lot of unpredictableities in that vaccination strategy and in the development of the virus. What the Minister is saying, of course, is he assuming that we have 3 billion? 3 billion? If not, 3 million Janssen vaccines can be pierced away and we have completely vaccinated people with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u322	That's a lot, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u323	I don't know what's gonna come out of that next week. I think that makes this question all the more relevant. That is why I asked if the Minister would like to comment on an image that I have seen of many people from medical science over the past week. One in three people on the ICUs are people between 40 and 60 right now, so not 60-plussers. Those are very often overweight men, who, if they had had that vaccine of course, would have had much less chance of getting into that place and for whom it would have been much better to get stuck with Astra. However, it should not be allowed to do so now, at least in the direction of the cabinet. How is this balance, whereby the Health Council has looked fully at the individual, but not at society as a whole, the pandemic we all want to emerge from and the occupation of the ICIs? Then how does the Minister see the responsibility of him to make those choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u324	I see all kinds of alternative images this morning, too, a piece in the newspaper, and I see all kinds of alternative theories, which in fact I do not think are very well substantiated. Let's just look at what is actually the risk of a serious illness, just statistically. So not individually, on the contrary, but the static risk at population level below 60 and in particular 20s, 30s and 40s. That's very low. What is the risk of a serious complication in this group if there is extensive thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia? Then the Health Council says: in doing so, the risk of this very rare but nevertheless very serious and slightly more frequent side effect is greater than the risk of death from corona. If you see that, if you know that, it is not very difficult as Minister of Health to make that assessment and then to say: we need these vaccines very much, but we are going to use them in the group in which they are safe. That is the group over 60, which also needs much faster protection. In short, it's not such a difficult trade-off. Only after you've done that group will there be room to think about the question you're asking, namely whether you couldn't just offer a choice option. My point is that by then that option is less interesting, but I'm going to work it out because I think you're asking a fair question. Can people, like Germany for example, ask informed consent? Can people choose for themselves what they think could provide the best protection at that time? I get that question. I think that question is legitimate, too, for that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u325	We all have an interest in people between 60 and 70 who want to be vaccinated voluntarily, of course, because it is those people who have the chance to get on the ice. And since you've linked the number of people on the ICU to our freedom, it's in all our interests. Now, whether you like it or not, a lot of people don't trust it anymore because of all the AstraZeneca stuff. They don't like it anymore. Then you can say 100 times that all of this is medically good and that it is justified I am not a specialist, so I won't contradict you, but people don't believe that anymore. In fact, the more you say it, the less they often believe it. That's not because it's you, but that's how it works. I will have a poll, at One-Today I believe, yesterday or the day before yesterday, showing that 40% of people didn't want that anymore. The Health Council said in an earlier opinion, in February, that you should stop poking over 65. Now it's between 60 and 70. I have the next question to ask you, and that is a question I asked Mr Paternotte in an interruption. Whether you like it or not, whether you like it or not, our interest in voluntarily vaccinating these people is greater than "you get it, and otherwise nothing" to sustain. That's a bit of what I hear you say. People between 60 and 70 have to say yes to AstraZeneca, when they have good reasons, or at least think they have, not to want that vaccine. If you do not do it for those people, but at least it is in the interest of public health that people between 60 and 70 are pricked, then I ask you: are you going to find an alternative for those people? If so, what is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u326	First of all, thank you for this question. I think it is a very, very, very justified question. And it's also a pretty difficult question. Let me remind you of my considerations in this regard. First, on the advice of the Health Council. Since no clinical data were available for over 65 years and the EEA had not imposed an age limit in its authorisation advice, he said: there are no clinical data yet, so let's not do it over 65 for a while. Later, the clinical trial data came up. It turned out to be effective and effective. It turned out to be safe, too. Then the Health Council said: you can also use over 65 fine AstraZeneca. In any case, there was no security issue. There was insufficient awareness of its effectiveness. The effectiveness data came later. That is why the Health Council has said: fine, then also with the elderly, because the elderly have to go first. Then there's the care people have. I understand that concern very well. Given the news and also the cacophony of opinions in the last week and a half, I understand that people say: what am I supposed to believe? That is precisely why I think it is important to go all the way on the advice of experts. And that's why we need to see the Health Council that has chosen a broad composition for the committee that has advised on this issue to make it lead in this type of advice. The EEA deals with market authorisation and monitors, investigates signals about side effects and possible side effects and so on for Europe as a whole, based on the entire European population. There is, of course, pricking and, on the basis of large numbers, it can be seen how statistically relevant a certain side effect is. Then comes the advice of the Health Council, which always advises on the basis of the latest state of international science. If I go freestyling on that, which I have been encouraged to do by this and that, then I will use the vaccination strategy and the willingness to vaccination. That's why I'm on expert advice. If we do that and if we continue to talk about what is going on, it is really not always easy to get that right; that I immediately acknowledge that it is safe and effective, that it is fine to use over 60 and that there is no risk of this very serious thrombosis image other than the background prevalence that exists in the population anyway, then I think, quite frankly, that some of the results of the polls that I have seen over the past week are going to turn out differently in practice. What if I said: yes, the vaccination rate there might be a little lower, so let's make it a choice model? Then I'm pretty sure that I'm organizing chaos in the execution anyway, but also that people will think: if I can choose, then I will. And then it takes you longer to prick the whole group, because you can't prick faster than you have vaccines. That is my consideration of saying: no, it is not wise now, when there is no need at all, to offer people a choice option. 'Cause there's no need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u327	You're offering some space, aren't you? You say it's not wise now. That word "nú" suggests that you may be open to it at a later date. Because the practice is different from the theory. If from a very renowned, good airline a particular type of aircraft falls out of the sky twice, people stop getting on that plane, no matter how good that airline is. Then you can say a hundred times that it's safe, but people don't get on a plane like that anymore. That's what's going on with that AstraZeneca. Again, I don't want to tell people that the vaccine is unsafe, but the minister knows what I mean. And I think we have 2.1 million people aged between 60 and 70 in the Netherlands. Let's not say it's 40%, and say it's not bad and it's 30%. Then we're talking about 600,000 to 700,000 people who wouldn't use it. And perhaps you are right about the content, like the Health Council and all the specialists might have, experts who know better than I do. But if you decide not to do it with 600,000 or 700,000 people, then we won't be able to do it with those voluntary vaccinations to make sure those ic's drain faster. I've heard your story, and I understand it, but I hope you understand me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u328	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u329	I hope you understand that analogy with that airline. It may not be the happiest comparison, but you know what I mean. I therefore ask you once again my question. Ask, people say: "I don't want AstraZeneca, because I have a disease, I have a problem. They can tell me what they want, but I have a blood clotting disease and I don't believe in it anymore." Nor can we afford a few hundred thousand people to say that. I understand you're saying if I'm offering an alternative right now, everyone wants Pfizer right away. But the alternative is also that we cannot afford hundreds of thousands of people in that age group not to be vaccinated. So how do we get out of there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u330	I see the dilemma, and I think Mr Wilders is a perfect sketch. Moreover, I think that the analogy with the aviation sector is a good one. I have read quite often in the past few weeks: the risk of thrombosis is one in so many on a plane, and the chance of this side effect is one in so many. And then we stop the vaccine? Well, first of all, it's not about normal thrombosis at all. If only that was what we were talking about, because then of course we wouldn't have stopped vaccinating people under 60 at all. It is a very serious disease. I've never heard people get on a plane and come out with a pulmonary embolism and a cerebral hemorrhage. In fact, if it had, we would have grounded all those planes. So the analogy is correct. On the one hand, pharmacy, vaccine development, the vaccine industry and, on the other hand, the aviation industry: they are perhaps the most heavily controlled industries. And rightly so. Why is that? Because it's about trust. It only works if people trust it. In the case of vaccines as well as in the case of flies, that confidence comes on foot, and goes on horseback. So one expects a government that acts sharply if there could be signs of insecurity in a certain age group. And that's exactly why I did what I did, and that's what I stand for. And then there is Mr Wilders' very fair question. Look, if I were to say right now that we're going to do just one option, the whole vaccine operation is going to slow down. If I were to say that now, this would only lead to a higher vaccination rate at a later date. So I can't help but say in the order: eat what the pot buys. And the latter means: this is the vaccine that is safe and is just good for this age group. How do we know that? Because I don't know how many experts have looked at it. That is why we know that, and that is why we dare to make this choice. If it had been any different, we wouldn't have made that choice. So this is safe. And of course I am willing to see what else we have in our basket by the time the numbers stop bothering us and by the time the scarcity stops bothering us. But as long as there's scarcity, I have to choose the most effective route. And that's really that we can't set up a choice model right now. Later, in the summer, it's a different story, but now it's just not possible to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u332	Finally. I guess it's got to be somewhere in the middle of it, at least. Actually, I'd like to do it now. I would really like people to have a moment of choice now, because I understand that people don't believe in AstraZeneca now, whether it's right or not. But I also understand the Minister's arguments. He says, "If everyone wants something else, it doesn't work anymore." In this context, I think the summer is very late. We'll have enough in the summer. All those people who now say they don't want to, they should wait months. So it would be fairer... Maybe you can't pronounce it, because you actually say, "Wait a minute and you'll get it." So maybe I shouldn't ask, but establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u333	Maybe you shouldn't suggest it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u334	No, maybe I shouldn't suggest it either. But I still want to make my point without suggesting it. Let me say it carefully, without encouraging people to act accordingly. Perhaps you can have a moment to consider if you see during this period that the group that does not want it is larger than you would like. Could you then consider not waiting until July, but rather examining it? Maybe you shouldn't respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u335	I understand what you're saying, but precisely because the suggestion is now on the table, I can't help but say: I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u336	I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u337	Fortunately, there are still a lot of people who really want to get the AstraZeneca vaccine. I'd really like to. I'm just under 60 and I can't get it now. I can wait quietly, but there are also people in that group of 60-minners who can't actually wait. That's the group of high-risk patients. The Minister said that we are looking for another solution, another vaccine as soon as possible. But there are also people under 60 with vulnerable health, people who, for example, have diabetes. Is it possible to vaccinate that group under 60 with vulnerable health in consultation with their GP on a short notice anyway? If we follow the Minister's plan, these people won't be there until the end of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u338	I'm going to make a switch to that block, because that fits perfectly and then we've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u339	The cube of medical indication?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u340	Exactly. I have to explain it very clearly. A lot of people have increased vulnerability. Not all of them have the same chance of corona. For people without underlying suffering, without additional medical vulnerability, you can very well calculate a risk rate of hospitalisation and mortality per group of the population. Unfortunately, we now have so many patients that we can calculate that very well. But there are a number of groups which also internationally simply establish that they have increased vulnerability. With regard to these groups, we asked the Health Council: what exactly is that all about? The Health Council says age is the most important medical indication. 90-plussers and especially the people in the nursing homes: please do it first, because they have the highest vulnerability. Well, we've seen what a huge vaccination effect assumes by starting there. I say this somewhat in response to Mr Wilders, who often says: if only we had started with the people who often come on ice. If we had done that, with the scarcity of the beginning, we would unfortunately not have been able to reduce mortality as much as is currently the case. That's why we really started at the top. That was the opinion of the Health Council on 19 November and that was the government's strategy adopted on 20 November. The Health Council also says that there are a number of conditions that compare themselves with the vulnerability of people between 70 and 80: people with down, people with BMI over 40 and people with one of five diseases. These are people who are seriously ill: people with leukaemia, with lymphoma and so on. Then there is also the group that receives the flu vaccination every year. That's the group of #Forget UsNotHugo. The Health Council says that they have similar medical vulnerability, group by group, as people between 50 and 59. So my commitment has always been that in the order of things I want to prick these people the same as the people between 50 and 59. So people with a high medical risk.................................................................................................................................................... Mrs Ploumen is quite right, when we are done with the 60-plussers and the people with a high medical risk, it will be at the end of May and this group will be next. Then I come to Mrs Westerveld's predecessor, who tabled a motion in the previous debate and said: I actually want that group to lead the group of 50 to 59-year-olds, because otherwise it may well be that one group will go through the GP and the other through the GGD that a young 40-year-old is more likely to be more vulnerable than someone who happens to be a little younger, someone from the group of 18 to 59-year-olds with increased medical vulnerability. Of that I said: I don't see very well how I should puzzle that for each other in the performance. But it never completely let me go either, because I think the plea of that motion, and also your plea, is justified. That's how I hear your plea. I can't quite describe what that solution is going to look like. I have another meeting with the LHV and the GGD at the beginning of next week. Anyway, I have just accepted the invitation from the group #ForgetOurNietHugo after dealing with the flower, the forget-me-notje, to start the conversation. I want to try to do people with increased medical vulnerability just after the 60-year-olds. Those are the people from the Green Left motion, which I believe was supported by Parliament. In doing so, I am simply trying to do justice to the plea you made in your first term. Okay, it's slightly different from the Health Council's advice. You give it first to the people in the flu vaccination group who have an increased vulnerability. That's a very broad group. They are not all supervulnerable, but they are more vulnerable than average. You do those people first and then the 50 to 59-year-olds. If I have that solution, I hope I will have it next week, and I would like to come back to that in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u341	Mrs Westerveld and then Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u342	I actually had a question about AstraZeneca, but first I ask this question. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that he will return to the motion tabled by Mrs Kröger on 24 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u343	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u344	The Minister states that he does not yet know exactly how to do this in the implementation, but many of the countries around us are broadening the definition of "a vulnerable person" than we are. That is, of course, one of the differences. I would ask the Minister to take this into account as well. How do we deal with definitions now? At least that's something that's putting that group at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u345	Actually, I've supported that a number of times in the Chamber. I want to be as close to the latest state of science as possible, otherwise the end will be lost. That's really up to the Health Council. At the Health Council I asked what type of conditions have such vulnerability that you have to switch them equally with people of very high age, 70- to 80-year-olds, and people of 50 to 59 years of age. Let's not forget that this flu group is a group of over a million people. Inside, too, there are very varied forms of vulnerability. Those people aren't all equally vulnerable, but they do have increased vulnerability. That's why you have to think of them as one group. I will back up again. We've also been talking to the patient organizations. The Health Council, together with the FMS, the Federation of Medical Specialists, has determined which groups you should have and how to subdivide those groups. I do not want to add or remove groups for political reasons. I always think this should be supported by medical science. I think that's important, because it gives you the greatest objectivability of the groups. In the international context, it is also very special that the groups of people in a Wlz institution are doing not only the people in a nursing home, but also those who have been first vaccinated in a disability care institution in the Netherlands throughout Europe. Our Health Council has seen and wants to see the medical vulnerability of that group, also in contrast to other countries. So yes, there are international differences. But I want them completely rationalized, to stay away from lobbies as well. I don't mean that annoying, but I get all kinds of pleas from all the groups every day that they have to go first. I don't want to take that away, because I understand. It always comes from care, sincere care, to get sick. I understand that very well. At the same time, I think it is precisely for that reason that I should rationalise it, from medical science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u346	Mrs Westerveld and then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u347	We too do not want to listen to lobby groups and, for this reason, we want to change the order of things. By the way, I think the whole room is doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u348	I know. Oh, yeah. The whole room, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u349	The point of these people is precisely that there was a Health Council opinion, but that has deviated from it and that is why it is not until much later. The painful thing about this is that it is not just about vulnerable adults, but sometimes also about children. With the PvdA we asked questions about that. It is clear from the answers to this question that there are a few thousand children, some of whom have not been to school for a year. Last week there was a pretty moving call from a mother who was looking for a playmate for her child. She wanted this to be a child from a family that was also in voluntary quarantine, because they're just vulnerable at home and she's afraid it's gonna go wrong when her kid plays with neighbors and neighbors. Those are the groups we're talking about. We are talking not only about medical risks, but about far-reaching social consequences, including psychological consequences, for these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u350	I know. That's the hard part. It is also a very large group with a huge variety of medical vulnerability. Let me put it this way. I'm gonna go see what I can do and talk to this group. So I'm going to see how we can get to this group not so much a acceleration in time, but a acceleration in the lead time of pricking. We can also see if we can grab the group at once as a whole instead of running it parallel to the 50- to 59-year-olds. That's my search for next week. I'm definitely going to discuss that with the forget-me-not group, because I've always heard and seen their pleas well. I would also like to do justice to that, as well as to your plea, from the motion tabled last time and also to Mrs Ploumen's plea today. I want to do justice to that, very much, however difficult that may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u351	I think that's another question that Mrs Westerveld still has. Thank you to the Minister for his commitment; let me start with that. A lot of people are worried. I would hope that the Minister will take another step forward with me and probably with Mrs Westerveld. In the original plan, this group of people with vulnerable health would be vaccinated equally with the groups 60 to 64. The minister now says he's gonna see if he can get the vaccination going right with the group between 50 and 59. My plea is to include that group in the group over 60, otherwise the risk is that they will have to wait even longer. Would the Minister like to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u352	It's a little different. 60 to 64 is done by the general practitioners. The pace is determined by the deliveries, in relation to what you can deliver regionally because of the volume of deliveries. In short, the general practitioners started in Zeeland. First they could order for 63- and 64-year-olds because of the volume of deliveries then. When we had a lot more vaccines and had been on pause for a while, and so we could drive out a lot, we did the whole North, the northern provinces at once. Then we could deliver in one time from 60 to 64 plus the non-mobile home-living elderly plus also people with Down and a BMI over 40 when we were going to prick them with Astra. In short, the general practitioners in the North were able to deliver a lot at once. Now we have to do the rest of the country again, and that's what's gonna happen in the future. I can't interfere with that. Those general practitioners just get Astra. Anything that comes in will go to them and to the GDs, who will then prick the 65 and 66-year-olds. Anything the general practitioners have left, they can prick in the 65 and 66-year-olds. I can't interfere with that; that's just the pace that's running. For the rest, the GGD was at 1951 this weekend and now they're at 1952, at least online. By phone, you'll have to wait for your invitation. That's how people keep going and somewhere they meet at the GGD. I can't interfere with that. Given the deliveries for the coming time I expect to be ready, in quotes, with that group between mid-May and end of May. I honestly think it will be the last week of May, if I look at the planning now. That will also depend on which deliveries will and will not continue. Of course we have good Pfizer news, I'll get back to you on that, but I'm starting from the last week of May. Then we have completed the 60s and people with the highest medical risk, so the medical conditions whose risk is similar to those of 70- to 80-year-olds. At that point you can start with the people whose health council says the risk is similar to between 50 and 59, i.e. one to twice the risk of death. That's how it's classified. I do not want that to run in parallel, as I said last time in the direction of GroenLinks. After talking to these people, the letters and the signals they have given, I thought: I could deviate from the advice of the Health Council, because I understand the plea to do that group before you start the 50 to 59 year olds. I just need to figure out a way to make that work. This requires a lot of discussions with the executive party, which should also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u353	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld had another afterburner and then Mrs Simons really did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u354	The reason I'm standing here is that we went from AstraZeneca to the groups with a medical risk. But I have another question that goes on at the point that Mr Paternotte also made, namely why people cannot voluntarily opt for the AstraZeneca vaccine. The reason is that I am still wondering and the Minister's answer has not convinced me yet. I understand that you're making the choice that safety goes for everything. At the same time, of course, we reason here because of scarcity. Every day that people are not vaccinated, that the number of infections is increasing, that people end up on ice, that every day that it continues, we are not getting out of the crisis. If you put that in addition to what the Thrombosis Foundation itself says, "That people who come on the ic also have an increased risk of thrombosis," then I wonder why the Minister chooses to follow the advice of introducing a temporary stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u355	I would also like to ask the Minister to make the answer a little more concise, just like the Members of Parliament's interruption, to be honest. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u356	Let me be very clear about the risk of a very serious complication like this thrombosis, because it's not just thrombosis. The Thrombosis Foundation says you can also get thrombosis on the ic and through corona. Yes, of course, but this is a very special form of thrombosis, in combination with low platelet counts and a tendency to bleed, which, for example, results in a combination of pulmonary embolism and cerebral haemorrhage. The chairman of the Health Council says: if we were to pierce Astra, according to the strategy as it was, so also under 60, where at some point we are going to prick young women between 18 and 40, you would get between 60 and 90 young people, under 60 years of age, with this disease. Some of them would have been invalidated and spend the rest of their lives in a wheelchair and a quarter would die. Those are pretty big numbers. And then you have to look at how you compare that to the risk of a very serious disease caused by corona, with a risk of death. Then the numbers are so obvious that the risk of these very serious complications in those young women, under 60, is even greater than the risk of death from corona. Then the choice isn't that difficult. You have to make a choice. The beauty of this choice is that we have alternatives. We don't have to push the schedule. I think that's important. We don't have to slide with that very important milestone to give all 60-plussers and all those with higher medical vulnerability a first shot at the end of May. We don't have to shove it because we have alternatives. So you have an obvious risk weighting and you have an alternative to all groups under 60 that you would like to prick. Then the choice to just follow this advice is very easy, isn't it? I do understand why people keep asking these questions, because the assumption is that things are slowing down here, which ain't true. There was that misunderstanding again this morning, in the part that was sent in. We're not gonna slow down. There is at most a delay of a few weeks for some groups, but on the whole of the planning we are not going to slow down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u357	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u358	The problem is that the Minister is reasoning from the general point of view. For some groups this does mean a delay. For example, some people who work in care now face an increased risk of getting corona. People who were in charge of getting a vaccination have been canceled. I know them personally. Why shouldn't we give them the opportunity to choose to get AstraZeneca? I get that, if you look at the general part...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u359	Mrs Westerveld, your question is clear. I want to go a little faster. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u360	My mission is to organise an alternative for them and that alternative has been put in place in a few days for all those groups that would now be pricked with AstraZeneca. So we have an alternative. We also have an alternative for them. That alternative is available in the very short term. I'll be on Janssen in a minute. For the medical groups, an alternative is available in the very short term, other than Janssen. For the people in care, so for the people who work in care, Janssen was indeed the alternative. We all hope, of course, that it will not be the case that Janssen cannot be the alternative. In short, you are absolutely right: then the delay is indeed a week, two weeks. But on the whole of the pandemic, that is no reason to say: let us take that risk, which is evident from the international comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u361	Thank you. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u362	I'll be brief. I hear Mr. De Jonge saying he doesn't want to violate the vaccination strategy. In my contribution, I have reflected extensively on the choice of that strategy. I would like to get a feedback from Minister De Jonge on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u363	The core of the strategy was adopted on 20 November last year. The opinion of the Health Council is of 19 November and the cabinet position, the cabinet strategy, is of 20 November. We have said that you should first choose the most vulnerable and the people who take care of them in a direct patient contact. That is actually the strategy that is being applied throughout Western Europe. Why? This is the fastest way to prevent serious illness and mortality and to prevent hospitalizations. If you do so, then the need for the most restrictive measures will also be removed. So this is really the fastest way. Well, where do you see the first result? In the institutions for long-term care, i.e. in nursing care and in the institutions for disability care. I've included the states in the letter of the Chamber. That's where you see the death rate dropping. Of course, that's fantastic. There's another possibility. So, of course, that's fantastic. This concerns people who are at the end of their lives. Now let's get to the death rate. In the last week of last year, it was around 400. Terrible. There's been so much pain in the nursing homes. Two weeks ago, it was under 20 for the first time. That's unbelievable. So fast effect of vaccination: that's incredible. And that's exactly why we made this choice. I am very convinced that that is the right choice. That's how we want to move on. That is also the reason why it is not so difficult to say on the pleas for vaccinating other groups, even though they are so justified: better not; first the elderly, because for them the risk is simply greatest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u364	Mrs Simons, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u365	Oh, yeah. That brings me to a group of people who also take care of patients, but as a caregiver. Actually, I haven't heard enough about that. I, too, know stories of people under 60, and even of people over 75, providing care but not yet vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u366	That's right. The category of "mantle care" is very difficult to define. What's a "coach caretaker"? Depending on the definition, this could involve 4 million people. If you add that group, we won't get to the elders anymore. That is very hard, you do not mean it at all, of course, and I understand that well, but if I made that choice, it would simply lead to longer mortality and serious illness. So totally rationalized, it's unwise to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u367	Thank you. Then I shall give the floor to the Minister for the following sub-blocks. And again, the request...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u368	Yeah, we can do this real fast. These were the hardest ones, you know. We'll get to Janssen real soon. At Janssen's, the FDA said, "We're gonna stop for a second." At least, no, the FDA has noticed the side effects, and the CDC has then said: maybe it is just as wise to keep up that shot campaign with Janssen. Based on the numbers we know now, as they have also become public, you would say: well, one in a million; that's really incomparable to the incidence of that serious illness as with AstraZeneca. And at the same time: AstraZeneca is a vector vaccine, and so is Janssen. I understand that the alertness of the watchdogs is great; of course, I understand that. And perhaps there are more data than we know at the moment. That is why I agreed to the request made by the pharmacist himself, that is to say by Janssen himself, to maintain the stock already supplied until the EEA has been able to properly examine the figures from the United States. What I hope is that the outcome of that study will be: the incidence is so low that, based on what we now know, there is no reason to reconsider our previous assessment, namely that the benefits outweigh the risks. So maybe even if I can't look at that all the time, we can start again in one go, or maybe I need a further target group advice from the Health Council. That depends a little on how the EEA reports on this. But all that can happen quickly, I hope. But I also cannot predict what that will look like, because I really think, here too: safety first; the facts count; first the EEA and perhaps also the Health Council, and then hopefully again as soon as possible. And why do I say "hopefully"? We have three million vaccines from Janssen. A number of Member States of the European Union have not bought Janssen. We have raised our finger for everything we could buy, and certainly Janssen. And I believe that we are getting 5.64% of everything that is being delivered to the European Union, whereas we are entitled to 3.89% in proportion. In short, we have a lot of Janssen. And I sincerely hope that we can continue to use that, and I sincerely hope that we can use it as widely as possible, and that we should not make the same 60+ exit as for Astra. That would, of course, be very delaying. Someone asked me, I believe it was Newsage, last week... I sometimes lose the days of a week; it was yesterday, I think. Someone asked me: what would be the impact, if Astra were to fall completely away? Well, that impact would be six weeks. But let's hope that doesn't happen at all, and then the impact is a huge acceleration in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u369	You're done with the subblock Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u370	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u371	There are quite a few care workers who get the question: can you help on the ic, because we are incredibly busy? And some say: yes, but I have not even been vaccinated; what do you ask me? That was one of the reasons to say: we are initially going to give Janssen a lot to caregivers. Those 80,000 vaccines are in the fridge now. And no pricking is of course also a choice to let those people walk through without that vaccine. The EEA has said: we have the same data as the FDA; we look at it, we do a review, but in the meantime, the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. France says we're gonna put those vaccines away. But we leave them in the fridge. Why the choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u372	My information about France is a different one, but that was just through the app, so keep this to my advantage... However, I believe that European Member States respect the recommendation of the developer himself. Take a look at the movie. FDA says: maybe stop pricking for a while because of the reported side effects. CDC confirms that. I think they've extended that needle stop for a week today; they don't just do that. In America, this epidemic is raging too, so they don't just do that. They do, is my estimate, not even because of an incidence of one in a million. I'm making myself strong that there's more to it than this. What we need to do next is, of course, that EEA should properly examine these data. We should not want to do that through the newspaper and then come to our own judgement; that is what EEA is for. The EEA says that they do not yet see any reason to change the market authorisation opinion. But that's a market authorisation advice. No, it is logical that the EEA does not say, on the basis of figures which it has not yet been able to study, that it suspends market admission. That would be crazy again. That is the role of the EEA. The way you apply it is the role of the national Member States. And so we make this choice, because the manufacturer himself says, "Oh, wait a minute." We don't do that because we already know that the substantive concerns would be similar to those about AstraZeneca, because we just don't know that, but we do because it's crazy to say as a supplier itself "wait a minute, because in the United States we're paused with it too," saying: well, no, I don't care; we're just gonna prick. That would be very crazy and not good for trust in the vaccine either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u373	The Minister is right to say that the EEA does not decide. The Minister of VWS decides. Of course, the EEA has the best knowledge of Europe. It is true that the EEA says: we are going to look at it now, but in the meantime, the benefits outweigh the disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u374	Yes, but that is the advice given in the context of market authorisation. They have not said: on the basis of what we have heard but have not yet been able to study, we say that market authorisation is being restricted. They didn't say. No, that would also be a bit of a special view of the EEA. So they didn't say that. They have to study that first. They had studied it on the basis of the clinical data in the study up to admission, i.e. in the authorisation file. Based on this data one saw: wide deployment, safe, effective; the benefits outweigh the risks. That's the standard formulation. And on the basis of the data received from the FDA but not yet studied, they have indeed not come to the interim conclusion that the market failure should be suspended for a moment. That doesn't mean I have to relate to a manufacturer who just delivered the stuff and says, "Oh, wait a minute; we're also paused in the U.S.; aren't you guys gonna start poking?" So first let the EEA do its job and let's hope that we can get to work safely afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to all the questions that have been asked about the surplus. These are somewhat related to the questions about the increased medical vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u375	Mrs Hermans, do you have a question about the surplus? Or is it another question about the last block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u376	I didn't know the block on Janssen had already been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u377	That's how fast it can go!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u378	But still a question about that. I understand the Minister's explanation of what the EEA said and the decision taken by the cabinet afterwards. But that means that we may also have to expect a setback around Janssen. What have we learned from the same process with Astra? What does that teach us now when it comes to what we may be facing with Janssen? Above all, I refer to the situation of that one group, that care staff who were under 60 years of age in the Astra group, who would have to be treated with those 35,000 Janssen vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u379	I hope and assume we can continue next week. Then we'll be the people we promised the stuff to, of course, just first. Then it's out, pricking, done. So that's what I hope, which, of course, I'm not sure. There are all kinds of scenarios conceivable. You can't prepare for all the scenarios, but there might be a scenario that the EEA takes another week. There could be a scenario that it is less self-evident and that you first need a further target group advice from the Health Council, where you are still a day away. Anything can happen. I can't foresee that. It is also possible that there will be no clarity for the time being, and I will have to clarify this concern group. So then I have to find an alternative. I can't anticipate that now. But the deal that Mr Van Ark and I made with this group from the hospitals is: we knew we had to do 40,000 after the 40,000 of January. We gave them 40,000 Astra. They couldn't stick them away from people under 60, so they're gonna stick them away from their own staff over 60 years old. And then we said: then there are out of that first delivery of Janssen 35,000 for you. Besides, we had the ggz. Also for the ggz we have said: here you have from that first Janssen delivery the stuff you have been waiting for for for so long. So we're gonna have to serve it first. If Janssen can't do it, I'm gonna have to operate them differently. What's the most important lesson? This morning we were asked: is there a plan B? What if Janssen...? Jaap van Delden, the vaccination boss, said: no, we just have a plan A and that's as quick as you can prick according to the vaccination order we've established. So all the vaccines we have, we're gonna use for the groups where we can. I really don't think so, but if Jansen falls out of the way, then we'll have to prick with the stuff we have and for the target groups we can prick. Then you're slowing down. How much delay is that? Six weeks. By the way, I did that calculation before I heard about Pfizer's additional deliveries, because they speed things up a bit. Have we learned another lesson? We have, of course, learned the lesson that when you pause, you must be convinced of the need for it. Because it's always trouble and hassle. And if you cancel appointments for that reason, don't cancel too many appointments all of a sudden, but do that day by day, so you can start again as soon as possible. That is actually the most important lesson of the first break, which we already used in the second break. Another lesson is: do not stop running vaccines, but drive them out so that they can be applied as soon as possible. That's how you avoid losing days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u380	I would like to ask Members if the Minister can answer all the questions first, otherwise we will be running very late. If there are really urgent questions, they can be asked at the end, but I really want to have dinner break at 7:30. So I'm giving a challenge to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u381	7:30? Dinner break? I look forward to it. I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u382	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u383	The surplus. The eyebrows of the whole Chamber were frowning on this and, frankly, my own too, when I read the newspaper this morning. That was quite different from how I wanted the surplus directive and also different from what Mrs Ploumen had ordered it in the previous debate. After all, we said in the debate that it would be wise to have a surplus directive. Not because there is so much left, because we know that there is very little left at the end of the day, but because we want to prevent it from being wasted and because we want to ensure that it ends up in the upper arms of those who need it most. The surplus directive for general practitioners is super simple: 60-64 year olds are their group, plus the mobile elderly. You can order the vaccine in a certain size and then it does not always come out with the group 60-64-year-olds. If there's any left, you prick upstairs, 65-year-olds and 66-year-olds. Super simple! If a single case with a medical indication squeaks through, that's fine. I've heard that before, but that's just a professional consideration of the general practitioner. As long as it's individual and not group. Then the G.D.D. The GGD actually had it very neatly done. In fact, the GGD had made a directive in which it was stuck in the group at that time. However, each vaccineer may also inject the vaccine into his/her own upper arm when he/she begins to vaccinate. That's the deal we made for general practitioners, institutional doctors, hospital staff and so on. The same goes for the G.D.D. However, they did not do it at the front, but they did it one by one afterwards, at the end of the day. It'll always leave less than one vial. That's two, three, four or five shots. Of course that goes well for a while, because you also hire new employees each time, so you can get ahead for a while. But in the long run all the upper arms of the pricks have been pricked and you still have some surplus. So we had to go to something new. Why was it so nice to agree on a directive? Otherwise, it's gonna be a lot of randomness. I think you pointed that out last time. If it becomes random, it's very annoying for the GGD, but also for the people who think they might get a shot. Then you get stories that at the end of the day people are banging at the gates at the GGD, because they want a shot. Yes, say the GD's, but we can't see which of those people are medically vulnerable and rightly appeal to the possibility. Can we please come to a directive, people asked. That was a wish from the G.D.D. Next, a wish from all of us was also evident from the order last time to make sure that the most vulnerable are eligible. How could you know that? I know that through the medical specialists, because the high-risk groups are there in the card box. Or through the GPs, because they have the flu group in the card box. No one else knows, because there is no central registration of it. We have spoken to them a number of times and that has led to the medical specialists and the general practitioners finally saying that they found it rather complicated to play a role in that. That was unrelated to the question of whether the GDPR is allowed to transfer address information. After all, they are related to medical data. But apart from that question, they say: if we do that, people expect us to be on the phone with the GGD all day long to make sure they get their turn sooner. They found that very complicated, because it is a huge burden on their practice. That experience already has general practitioners and medical specialists. It just turned out it wasn't workable to make a standard appointment. So it was agreed in the national frameworks to prevent pivoting on 13 April that there is a certain order in preventing pivoting. Sorry, dealing with surplus. That's the way I'm supposed to put it. We do this first by preventing spilling, because then you just put most vaccines in the arms that were next. Then you check if you are as close as possible... That's what it says. If there is a risk of remaining vaccine, the VVD will try to resolve this as much as possible within the framework of the national vaccination strategy. For example, citizens can be called with an appointment on the next day to ask if they want to visit a day earlier. It's possible. That's what locations can do. Then you just call tomorrow's people. You pull it out, and you stay in the strategy. A number of GGD's, including North Limburg, the fantastic North Limburg, let me say for a moment that has also been invented, where other GGD-regions and other general practitioners groups and other medical specialists found that very complicated, apparently invented a method that can be used. Apparently, he works there. I would think, my interpretation of how I get the deal is: you can stay within the national vaccination strategy by calling tomorrow's elders and getting them to today. It's possible. That's appropriate. All right. But, yes, why would it not necessarily be appropriate to take someone with an increased medical vulnerability if those general practitioners don't see such a problem in that and would like to provide those lists at the GGD location? I do not see why one should oppose it. There has been a misunderstanding, I think, because it is assumed that VWS should not do so. Well, no, of course we just accept the professional guideline that the GGD makes. I think it is wise that the Health Service has come up with a directive. I very much support that. I also think that the choice to keep you within the strategy and to choose the care workers when you are done with it is sensible, because they fit into the vaccination strategy within the prioritized groups. So stay as close as possible to the vaccination strategy. Actually, that's the deal. Let us leave it to the region to shape it. As long as it fits in here. Apparently that is not the reading and the explanation, because otherwise that article would never have been produced. So apparently that is not the reading and explanation given to it. So I think I have work to do. I thought this would be the lecture, and I totally agreed with it. As little pivoting as possible and when you have pivoting, you prick away the surplus in the group that is actually as close as possible to the group that was next. I am not going to ask the general practitioners throughout the country to do so, because we have actually had a number of discussions about this. Family doctors just don't see that and I'm not gonna force them to do it. But what I do want to do is to give the GGDs who apparently have made such an appointment the room to keep that appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u384	I think this is a very clear answer. I can tell by the reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u385	Okay. Then the delay of the second shot. It was actually my own wish to do that. That was in January and then there was actually no evidence at all to get to work outside the package leaflet. That's when I asked again. That was at the end of February and on 8 March we received an opinion. Then the Health Council said: "Better off not, because we don't really know enough about the effect of the first shot and if the antibody titers decrease, then the level of protection of that first shot also decreases. In particular, the group you are poking, especially the group of older people, is too vulnerable. Thus you would run the theoretical risk of helping an escape mutation in the saddle and you do not want that." In short, better not. That's how the risk weighting was. At that time, D66, among others, together with Mr Wilders, is called 'exotic cooperation'. I wonder if I might have another look at that by the Health Council. In fact, Mr Wilders asked: just do it. The motion was, in the end, "Would you like to have another look at it?" The Health Council has looked into it and I must say that there has been some mystical advice, namely that you could consider it. That was modelled on: all appointments, both appointments, dropped and filled with first shots. That's a tragedy in the execution. I'll get to that in a minute, but there was something else going on. First of all, we put a lot of first shots in the Netherlands. The assumption may be different based on all interviews with this and that about it, but we put a lot of first shots in the Netherlands. In the next few weeks, we're actually putting first shots. I think 75% to 80% are first shots. Internationally, we're at 21.6% first shots. Of course, I'm not looking at all these international lists. Of course not, it's not a competition. But I just happen to know this: 21.6% first shots. That is more than Denmark and more than Germany. That's just a lot. So we're already putting a lot of first shots. Therefore, the profit is relative. If you dropped all the second shots, the winnings in June would be one shot to a few shots. But we can't drop everything, because that 1.4 million... I'd like to go back to the discussion about Astra. That's where we had to cancel a few tens of thousands of shots. That's what's given that huge swell of recent times. That has made a lot of people very restless, angry, sad. That was a few tens of thousands, and then we'd cancel 1.4 million second shots? For 70-plussers, who would be a little more difficult than young people to process that second shot is not going to happen for the time being. They think they're a little less protected. That's so unbelievably disturbing. And it is also a dragon for the execution, because it means that the call centre that actually has to plan all these millions of shots is first and foremost getting all those planned shots out of the agenda. I'm not quite done yet, because I also want to approach this modelically and arithmetically. If you just let go of that 1.4, does it have an advantage at all? I want to calculate that and I want to conclude whether or not to do it, but I really want to leave the 1.4 million second shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u386	A final interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u387	We can also conclude from the advice given by the Health Council today: if we had done this before, we would have benefited quite a lot from it. Although this is in contrast to a previous opinion of the same Health Council, I agree with the Minister, it is of course something that is approaching the strategy that England has been pursuing since 13 January. Then a lot of people called off and that second shot was postponed. With the knowledge we have here today, they have really benefited. Now the Health Council says: if you do this now and indeed call off and postpone those people, it will ultimately save hospitalizations every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u388	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u389	It does mean a lot of calls, but it also saves. It also saves lives. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u390	Two things. One. I think the differences with England are suggested bigger than they actually are. As far as Astra is concerned, you know that they have had a little more Astra there than Europe. We are at the same interval, twelve weeks. So there's no difference. This is supposed to be about Pfizer. We've already taken Pfizer from three to six. By the way, I also indicated in the letter I do not know if you have indicated in the letter that I want to go from four to six at Moderna. So I also want to use a maximized, prolonged puncture interval. With regard to this suggested advantage from the first month: that assumes that we have put all first and second shots very close together. But that actually only happened to the nursing home residents. And rightly so, because they're the most vulnerable. I would have done that for that reason anyway. If you look at how many first shots we have set, if you look at how many first shots are planned for the next four or five weeks, then you should just say: grosso modo we have put first shots. Once again, in the list of Europe, we are fairly well placed at the top of the first shots. 21.6% of the adult population had a first shot. Denmark is under 20%. I think Germany is under 20%. Those are the countries we prefer to reflect on, because they are doing just fine, let us add that. But we have put more first shots than Denmark and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u391	Mrs Hermans, do you have another question about this block? I had actually said: at the end, but I also gave other Members the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u392	It was about this block, about that second shot. I was just asking about a scenario in case of a possible setback with Janssen. I can imagine that postponing that second shot is part of that. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u393	That's one of the reasons why I'm not chatting up the door right now. Imagine that at some point a vaccine would indeed fall. Then I'd like to have the sum of what happens when you switch to an extended interval at the same time. That's why I want to figure it out. But I'm not gonna cancel the 1.4 million shots, you're not gonna ask, because that's gonna make the unrest huge. We've already seen it in a few tens of thousands of shots. Well, if you cancel 1.4 million shots, the country's really too small. Then we can fill talk-show tables with sad people up to juttemis, so I don't think we should do that. What we have to do is make the sum, but make the sum from the moment you start to increase that interval with the new appointments to be made. Then there's something else. Look, that 12-week interval seems interesting now, but by the time you're really ready, namely the month of June, for example, that also plays at the Astrahotline for the people who might want such an Astra if the shots are no longer necessary for the 60-plussers, then people are no longer interested in a shot with a long interval, but just in a short interval. That has everything to do with the vaccination passport, which I'm going to say about later. Because that's what you get when you're fully protected. Then you have to spend a summer holiday in October if you have enjoyed sometime in June Astra. I don't know if anyone's gonna be waiting for a shot with a long interval by then. In my opinion, the discussion in June is about: how can we shorten the puncture interval over and over again? Then Pfizer is of course ideal, because that also has excellent protection during a three week puncture interval. Then I'm gonna go into the other vaccine issues and then I'm gonna make it right before dinner break. After dinner break we continue to test. Why did you not buy alternatives for Janssen and Astra, Mr Wilders asks. Know that we actually put our finger on all the options; I wrote it all out once in a letter of office, I think three Chamber letters ago. When part of Europe, in particular Pfizer and Moderna, so the mRNA vaccines, found it too expensive and said "well, we already have about all the vaccines for our people," we always said: fine, bring up the remaining pro rata part of other countries. That's why we have so much. That is the most extreme thing with Janssen, of which we really have a lot, but also with BioNTech/Pfizer we have nothing to complain about, I would like to say. Are you willing to buy Sputnik? That is what Mrs Pouw-Verweij asked and, in fact, Mr Wilders has been asking weekly, for months, if we have already bought Sputnik. One is: EEA has a rolling review. In this study, EEA's research is already running on Sputnik during the clinical research data that is provided, without the dossier being fully completed. So there is no obstacle to wanting to think about Sputnik. They just haven't crawled through the gate of EEA yet. We really need to leave that there. It doesn't seem quite easy to get all research data collected in a good way, so I shouldn't want to try that on my own. Unlike the other vaccines, where you needed an advance purchase agreement to invest ahead of time in production capacity, Sputnik doesn't need that. The vaccine has been developed. They are already working on the scaling-up of production capacity, so that is not really happening here. Then you could start negotiations at some point from Europe. I know that a number of bilateral initiatives are currently under way. I know there are two lines in Germany, for example. One is the line from Bavaria, where it has been said: we get a plant from Sputnik in 2022, so we are going to produce here; then we want to benefit from it in Bavaria too, so we want to buy Sputnik from 2022. That is not helping us now, but it could be in the portfolio by 2022. Berlin has said: we really want to start the talks with the Russians about Sputnik. We have been in contact with Germany and have indicated that if they do so bilaterally, we are very interested to participate. So if it does not happen from within the Commission, then bilaterally as far as I am concerned. Of course, we can only use the vaccine if EMA has given it its approval and if we have been able to properly assess its content. But know that as far as I am concerned, there is no obstacle to doing business with Sputnik, quite the contrary. If it is a good vaccine, please add it to the portfolio. I do not think it will help us this year, but from 2022 onwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u394	Mr Wilders, too, has a final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u395	Very briefly. That is good news, because the Prime Minister wasn't very happy about it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u396	This is from the past week, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u397	That's good. You say now: if it is toying with the Germans, then we are happy to join or we are doing it bilaterally ourselves. Is there any chance that's before 2022? Because that is very nice, of course, but you will be flooded with vaccines later this year, so of course, it's very useful now. There are also countries, I think Hungary, that have it already. I don't know how they do that, but is there any way that, if the EEA were to be quick, you could get that sooner, perhaps for the next few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u398	Hungary and also Slovakia are the Member States, especially Hungary, which said when we launched this initiative: we are not participating, because then Germany, the Netherlands, Italy and France will first take care of themselves. It wasn't, by the way. We did that right then for the whole of the European Union. That first contract was equal for all Europeans. They could take part in it. Those countries didn't really want to have so much to do with the European vaccination strategy, with all the Member States together. That was the reason they later thought: now they have very little, so we have to turn to the Russians. There is, however, something geopolitical about the vaccines that have been developed. I know that Hungary is indeed open to Sputnik. I know that in Slovakia the Prime Minister was open to Sputnik, but not because it had not yet been approved by the EEA. This did not work out well for the VWS Minister in particular. That's how these things go. We are more in line: we are open to it, but the stuff must be good. We'll get that from the EEA. Bilateral, the Netherlands versus Russia, I don't think is such a great diplomatic success, so I'd like to do that with the Germans. That is also the signal I gave to Mr Spahn. Whether it is actually going to lead to anything in 2021, I wouldn't be too counting on that when I hear what the Russians have to offer in terms of production capacity. That is simply not enough, even to serve the Russians themselves. I honestly believe that it is more likely, if it continues, that it could lead to an addition by 2022. Are we keeping a minimum supply? Yes, I say quite clearly in the direction of Mrs Hermans. That's important. We have been more careful in the stock and right now we are just careless, briefly summarized. That's what we're doing consciously, just so we don't lose speed. The dashboard is also so updated that everyone can just see what's in the stock, which stock has not yet been released because in control and which stock has already been released and is being driven out this week. What would be the minimum stock, but also the weekly? You also saw this this morning in Van Delden's presentation: we are actually every week below our own provision on the minimum stock. And what part has actually been run out, is on the way to being pricked? Mr Heerma asks: how is it that there has been a somewhat higher report of the number of shots this week? This is mainly due to the fact that we did not prick away AstraZeneca as a precaution due to the volatility after the prick break until we could have sufficiently checked with the LHV whether it was actually pricked according to assumptions over that week. That's the most important one. In addition, there was always a 5% pivot. 5% pivoting is not close to reality. It's less than 1% and that's why we stopped 1%. It doesn't matter. In addition, we report in a week. The week starts on Mondays and ends on Sundays. Then we'll report back there all week on Monday. Now we haven't reported at all on Monday because of a technical malfunction. So there was also an increase because there was one more day included in that reporting week. Internationally, there has been a technical malfunction or delay in delivery between the RIVM and the ECDC system a number of times. This has also led to an optically low placement on those rankings a number of times. Of course, I'm not watching it because it's not a competition. Anyway, that has once led to a lower placement. In the meantime we are just sitting neatly in the middle and when it comes to the first stings, we are just a bit higher. Then there's Pfizer's two million. Is it true that that's really extra? Yes. That's really more at least in Q2, because they're from Q4. They came out of the fourth quarter and went to the second quarter, with a pack build bit him a little over 200,000 in April, over 500,000... I even thought 600,000.......................................................................................................................................................................... In short: in June it gets crowded and it gets crowded. That must also be equipped with the puncture capacity. If necessary, Mrs Hermans asks if we are going to sting at night. I don't think it's going to be necessary, because we're going to intensify very much from eight to eight. You could stick to that at the ends of the day for another hour. The GGD is going to do 1.5 million structuralally anyway, and if necessary, we're going to take on the GGD's peak price offer with both hands. They have said: if you know it two weeks in advance, for example, we can really pierce a weekend or stop our practice for a day to pierce all of them. That's a beauty of an offer. The hospitals also made that offer. That's how you get to $2.5 million a week anyway. And the GGD said by mouth of André Rouwvoet: boy, if it is also necessary to continue at night, and if that would help, we will of course do so. But for now, if you don't have enough vaccines, you're not gonna let Grandma come in the middle of the night. That would be a little crazy, of course. Mr. Chairman. I think we have come to an end with that. I just have to go over the vaccination passport. If that were the case, there would be just a bill. So we're going to have that discussion "if, then." JA21 asks why we are so enthusiastic about this green digital pass, that European initiative. At least, that was the short version of the question. We say, of course, there is a medical limitation, because we do not yet know whether you are actually contributing to the spread, to the transmission if you have been vaccinated. We just don't know yet. If we do know that, then we can also get to work with it. That is what we want in the Netherlands too, in the Netherlands really as an alternative to the test certificate. We're gonna discuss how we're gonna use the test certificates next week when we deal with the bill. At least as far as I am concerned, we are going to discuss it, so if you are going to act accordingly. If we add a vaccination certificate as an alternative to a negative test certificate, we will first need a separate treatment of the AMvB. So we're definitely not just gonna do it. Mr Van Haga asks: should you think of that as a kind of vaccination obligation? On the contrary. So it's an indirect duty? On the contrary. We're not gonna make that happen. That was your Chamber's ruling, and that was the cabinet's agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u399	Thank you. Mrs Ploumen asks her last question. After that, Mr Heerma and Mr Segers are very brief. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u400	Thank you to the Minister for the commitment that the GGD North Limburg can continue its approach to the "processing of the remaining vaccines," if I may put it this way. It is good to note that common sense, fortunately, also prevails. So thank you very much for that. My question to the Minister is what is still needed to ensure that this can actually continue. Is there something that needs to be changed in the protocol? Is the Minister's word here in the Lower House sufficient? I would like to be sure that what the Minister is saying here, and what I and others have advocated, is going to happen. Otherwise, we'll be back here next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u401	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u402	I say that my interpretation of the directive made by the Health Service is that this can be done. It does not work that in all regions you can require general practitioners, health care professionals or medical specialists to do so. We've had intensive conversations about that. However, the implementation of this directive seems to me to be: if you have surplus, then stick it away in the group that is as close to the vaccination strategy as possible. If the GGD Noord-Limburg would like to give this effect to that directive, I am not going to lie down for that. That's my deal with you, because that's how you want it to be, and I think it's widely worn in the Chamber. I'm going to talk to the GGD about how this uncertainty can then be. Then why shouldn't this be possible? And does that require an adaptation of the directive? I honestly don't think so, but I'm gonna discuss that with the G.D.D., and I'm gonna put it back with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u403	Clear. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u404	I would like to add my thanks to Mrs Ploumen. I think it is very good that the Minister is clear here and he is taking away clarity. I do think that the noise was partly caused by the talk about this. Indeed, it has been said by the GGD and by the department that this category has been deleted. Then it wouldn't be crazy if certain conclusions were drawn from that. So, following Mrs Ploumen's example, I would like to ask whether there can be an active view of how the noise can be removed. But there's a second element. I understand perfectly well that the Minister says, "I'm not gonna make it." But apparently the GGD Noord-Limburg has found a method that other GGDs might learn from. Does the Minister want to take that into the discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u405	Yeah, I'd love to take that with me in the conversation. Look, in the end, it's always just a few shots out of a half empty vial. So the group itself, which includes 1 million people, has been much more helpful with that other commitment to Mrs Ploumen, namely to see if I can fit it between the group 60-plussers and the group 50-to-59 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u406	I've held up my question, even from another block, until the end. But here I notice: it's about multiple pricks per location per day. And that really counts when you look at it every week and for all locations. I also agree with the Minister when he says that the commitment to Mrs Ploumen, but also to Mrs Westerveld, is potentially much greater. The Minister is working on that. My question is about communication. He explained why it turned out to be more this week. I think that's good news. But my question just had a different load. Because I was able to read in the letter which makes it more. It's about that spillage et cetera. But it took days for that noise to be removed. That has a negative effect in itself. My question was actually: how can you, when you see that this is going wrong, be explained rather that it is not right than Tuesday night at a press conference, where suddenly it turns out that we are 700,000 further and that we are at 650,000? Isn't it possible to nip that noise in the bud sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u407	Yeah, that's almost a philosophical question. If I knew that trick, I'd use it. When I see the coverage of vaccinations and the choice of words you sometimes use, there I am only honest in the subject of vaccinations, I think: well, is that entirely in line with reality? By now, we're at a $4 million stakes. We also said we'd be there right now. Another month we have double, namely 8 million pricks. If the deliveries come through, of course, that's the only obstructive factor. Frankly, I'm not that gloomy at all, even if you compare it with other Member States. We are quite in line, especially with regard to the first shots, namely above France, above Germany, above Denmark. Again, I don't know how I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u408	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u409	As far as the total is concerned, we are simply in the middle of Europe. Is that crazy? No, that's not crazy at all, because in all countries the only obstacle is the delivery, and we have agreed on this with each other on a pro rata basis. In short, should we really be very gloomy about that? I honestly think we shouldn't be, but I can't oblige others to my stoic optimism. I can't do that either. Can I do my best to take it away as well as possible where noise occurs? Yeah, that's what I'm trying to do, of course. I can see that sometimes I'm moderately successful in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u410	It's a lot about states the minister never looks at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u411	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u412	That's pretty special. At the risk of missing an answer, the following. I had asked a question about a doctor who said: if I call people, about 30% will show up. That's in exciting, complicated neighborhoods. Don't you need your own vaccination strategy there? Don't you need some other way to finally get people over that threshold than the proper call from the GGD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u413	No, of course, people who vaccinate the GP aren't summoned by the GGD. The GP invites himself. If there is someone in such a neighborhood, in South, who knows the people and knows how to reach them, it is the GP. Nowhere is the threshold as low as in the GP, I think. To be honest, I wouldn't know, but I'm open to how I could help the general practitioner in South or Delfshaven to do this. But I'm very open to that conversation. It hasn't happened yet, but I also intend to visit there, because I would like to learn this too. It is my tendency to think: when the unrest is a bit lushed again and we are used to the idea "Astra over 60 is actually not only very good, but also very good to use and safe; the rest of the Netherlands is doing it too" then the gloom of those low percentages of today is going to increase and will indeed be used to it. I'm not sure. I don't have a glass ball either. But I think so. That's my assumption. I also had the discussion with Mr Wilders on how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u414	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u415	Of course there is a difference between general practitioners and the GGD, but the freedom that the GGD Limburg gets to deliver customization in a completely different area, you could of course also give to the general practitioners. I think it's okay if the minister looks, because I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u416	How?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u417	Because a GP gets the freedom to... He sets up a district center and he says, guys, come over here, I'm gonna treat everyone who lives around here, and as long as supplies last, we're gonna poke. I shake it off the loose sleeve, but the point is that you have the freedom to have a general practitioner who comes across borders in an exciting place in an exciting city... There's only 30% of the people who could show up. That is extremely worrying. A neighborhood like this might need a different strategy. It's nice to have the Minister look there. It is nice when the minister listens to the general practitioners: what does this district need and how can we help and support these general practitioners in reaching out to more people? Because 30% is, of course, far too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u418	If that's what it's gonna be. You can't say for that reason that the GPs have to see where they put their AstraZeneca stuff. Of course you can't. From the vaccination strategy, 60 to 64 years is the age group to be done by the general practitioners with AstraZeneca. If they're left, prick up to 65 and 66. By the way, they pricked from top to bottom, "and they will meet in the middle," so we finished with the 60-plus group at the end of May. If I were to say to the doctors in Delfshaven "you have to see who you're putting it in," it's gonna be a mess. Then there is no more level to raise who is next and so on. I don't think we can do that. In fact, which doctor would give you that space and which one wouldn't? Is your zip code going to determine whether you're up or much later? Or is your zip code determining what vaccine you get? I don't think that's gonna explain anymore. So we shouldn't do that. I'd really like to see if I can help the GP on his turnout. By the way, I don't want to take on big pants, because I think the GP himself is very capable of explaining to me what could work in his practice. I have the hope and the expectation that if the peace around AstraZeneca returns a bit, the vaccination prepared among the 60-plussers will also increase again. Also I hear from very general practitioners, albeit not in this part of the Netherlands: well, with us it's really not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u419	Thank you. I took a look at how long the restaurant takes to prepare everything. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:30. Then we have a very short block of tests. The Minister for Medical Care then talks about the health bonus. Then it's the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u420	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the development of the coronavirus. I'm gonna wait until the Prime Minister gets here. We have one block left by the US Secretary of State, namely testing the block. And then I think there's a very short block left. Then I will give the floor very quickly to the Minister for Medical Care to answer the questions about the health bonus. I call the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u421	Thank you. A lot of questions have been asked about the access tests. I would like to answer those questions, because there was talk here of "925 million, or even 1.1 billion, just going over the fence towards commercial fun tests for casinos." That was Mrs Marijnissen's text, I believe. I think we really need to talk about this in a different way. That kind of imaging is really harmful and it's just not according to the facts. So I would like to explain what is happening. It is about access tests that allow us to make things possible again that could not have been epidemiologically otherwise. In doing so, we also make things possible for people with their own business that would not otherwise have been possible. Suppose we say to restaurants in step 3 of that open plan: you can get back to business; you can actually have up to 30 people in your business, but if you participate in access tests, you may have 50 or 60 or 70 again. We still have to see what would be responsible. Maybe it's going to be something related to the square meter; a square meter standard. Then there is clearly a better exploitation for such a restaurant owner. Is that throwing money around for fun things for rich people? No, man, you're talking about an entrepreneur who can get his business back together. This is a fantastic investment, not only for the entrepreneur himself, who therefore also needs to ask for less support, but also for the people who can go out again. From the people who participate in the pilot access tests you hear endless stories of "I missed it so much," "finally another day out," "it was fantastic." Happy, ordinary people who are inside after months visit quite ordinary attractions like the Keukenhof again, so not the casino, or Oldhand Animal Park, so not the casino, or Hellendoorn theme park, so not the casino, but just very ordinary fun things for very ordinary fun people. That's what access tests are really about. How did we come to that? It's good to tell that lead. For a long time now, even here in the Chamber, it has been said: do more testing. Some people call it a "test society," others think it's a bit of a creepy image. But whatever you call it, just use it to make things possible again with tests, because with tests there are simply more things possible. There is also a strong plea from VNO-NCW to do so. An own-initiative paper was also submitted by GroenLinks. We treated him together. There are arguments from all the groups, in fact, at some point in the past few months in any debate, which say: do that; get to work on tests, because you can really make things possible again. That's what I want. Then we started these talks with the Minister of EZK, with the Minister of OCW, who has also been very active in them. In December/January, discussions were launched with VNO-NCW on how to set up rapid testing capacity with the help of industry. 'Cause, you know, back to when the G.D.D.s couldn't just have that for a second. They also had to prepare for large-scale vaccination and they already did a lot of tests. So I didn't want to ask the G.D.D.'s. The GGD is from testing when it comes to detecting and fighting the virus, and I really wanted to put this as a separate parallel test infrastructure next to it. But just to do that from the government for a little while is also something. So I was very pleased with the social initiative of the Stichting Open Nederland, in which Tom Middendorp was involved. It was said that we would like to try to stamp that access test capacity out of the ground. We embraced this social initiative with great passion, because the foundation has a non-profit character and brought with it experience in scaling up test capacity. Tom Middendorp had been involved with a number of companies in helping us build up the GGD test capacity in rail 1. That's where he did a great job. I was really very excited that he was the one who said: I dare to do that foundation; I am going to do that, non-profit, with enormous experience and knowledge in the meantime also of testing capacity and its scaling up. And yes, it took speed. It's a mega operation. Investments in testing infrastructure, hardware and software, in human power, in training. That happened in the midst of great uncertainty, because that was never shown anywhere. The exact size of the question was unknown. A plan has been worked out. You could see that; I sent it along with the pieces. In doing so, the construction of this parallel test infrastructure is organised at various stages. It is also a good thing that they did this at different stages, because it was also understood that a government cannot put a lot of money into such an infrastructure at once, no matter how much we want it. Of course, it's taxpayers' money. The first phase, so enabling the foundation to do this, we haven't tendered. We deliberately didn't, because then you'll be six to eight weeks away. So we didn't do that on purpose. Then the foundation itself did not tender in the start-up phase, because that had just caused too much delay. For example, we wouldn't have been able to help the field labs. We could not then have carried out the Hermans motion from the last time. We would do the pilots for the entrance tests in April. Next week, I hope to deal with this bill on access tests with you. Then we've done the field labs, then we've done the experiments, then we've done the pilots with access tests, in April. This is all possible because the Open Netherlands Foundation has done so. That's fantastic work. In doing so, they did indeed use one test purchase company, Lead Healthcare. And why did they choose the first, initial collaboration with that company? They already had a lot of test infrastructure, were experienced, were just good and solid in quality. And so the foundation chose to do that with one company. In short, we have not tendered, but used the social initiative and made it financially possible. That's one. The foundation itself has said to opt for an experienced company first. But you have seen that from the very first service agreement, namely for phase 0, it has been agreed with the foundation that if you start working before the end, if large volumes are going to be turned, the market will have to give it a chance. It is ultimately tax money and all companies must be able to eat with a fair share from the state grape. That is the background to the procurement directive. So: in the start-up phase quickly start and then settle it neatly, so that there is a fair chance for other companies. To control risks, we built in two safety valves. The assignment is divided into phases, so we built in a go/no go decision after each phase. No carte blanche, finger on the wrist, each step deciding on money towards the foundation, which then pays the subcontractors themselves for the services provided. The call for tenders has been made from the outset for further implementation, i.e. after the pilot phase, and that call for tenders is now under way. Furthermore, there is a accountability relationship between VWS and the foundation and it is transparent. VWS provides the funds to the Foundation on the basis of the cost estimates provided by the Foundation. The ministry of VWS also gets insight into the activities and costs of the foundation. The foundation periodically reports to the Ministry on the execution and realization of the assignment and will be audited by an external auditor. In addition, the processes of the Foundation's suppliers are reviewed by an independent external party. The supervision within the foundation is also organised. There is an executive programme organisation which the board of the foundation supervises. The governance is in the process of strengthening the role of supervision within governance. Then back to the question of the money. The cabinet has budgeted a total of EUR 1.1 billion for access tests until the end of August. We don't spend it all at once, but it's budgeted until the end of August. 900 million of these would be for the exploitation of access tests through the Foundation. The other money is intended, among other things, for the purchase of antigen tests and the construction of the XL streets, because that is another task. This cost estimate includes: running and building the test streets, personnel costs, ICT infrastructure, training and training, a call centre and money for research and guidance in the test phase. By reserving that amount..... that is just a budget, an estimate you make... the Cabinet is at least able to pay that access test when a flight is about to take place. Besides, that money wasn't spent, but it's just in our account. By the way, I do not know whether you know the Minister of Finance a bit, but that is not someone who says: yes, put down a billion dollars. It just doesn't work that way. We do that step by step and always well responsible. This way, through access tests, we make beautiful things possible, I really want to emphasise, what people are looking at incredibly; entrepreneurs and people who just feel like going away again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u422	Thank you. I think you've answered all the questions. There are still a few people who would like to ask a follow-up question. First, Mr Kuzu van DENK, then Mr Van Haga of Forum for Democracy, then Mr Stoffer of the SGP, Mr Segers of the Christian Union and Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u423	Apart from the fact that my group is not very enthusiastic about a test society, we have read in that article of Follow the Money that a number of things are not right. The Minister has taken that up. If we can believe the Minister's image, it's all right, it's all right. What those reporters write down is basically bullshit. My question is specifically about possible violation of the law. We have procurement rules in the Netherlands. Where contracts are issued on this scale, a number of lots must be asked to make a tender. With all due respect for Mr Middendorp's record, I would like to ask whether it could not have been done in a different way from what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u424	It could have been otherwise if we had accepted that we could not get to work until the end of May, beginning of June. Well, then we'll be vaccinated before we can get access tests started. And then, when we are in step 3 of the open plan, we should say to restaurant owners, for example: max 30 inside and no more, because that is just dangerous. For the time being, we should say to all the event organizers: no, wait a while; you can't organize anything at all, because it's just too dangerous. In short, through the access tests we make things possible again that we look so incredibly at each other. That is indeed why I have said: better now give gas than color everything neatly within the lines. And yes, I've done that before in this crisis. We did that with laboratory capacity. That's what we did with mouth caps. A pandemic and a procurement directive simply do not always relate equally well to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u425	We are talking about laboratory capacity, but I do not think that has gone well either. In my opinion, we have had enough discussions about this in the past. The Minister is acting as though the whole idea of the test society and the exuberant testing were discovered yesterday or the day before yesterday and as if the Chamber requested it a week ago, but I think we have been having this discussion for several months. I would like to ask the Minister whether he could not have foreseen earlier that this would have happened and could not have just launched a tender, so that other promising entrepreneurs, or people who are starting a social initiative that could have been successful, could have participated fairly. Is this unfair competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u426	No, I really don't think so. What we've done is start with the foundation. That was just a social initiative, and I embraced it. Is it true that we had that conversation for the very first time in December or January? No, of course not. We've done that before. VNO-NCW is one of its great advocates. We have, of course, had that conversation with them before. By the way, it has been clear to me from the beginning that you cannot ask the GGD for this and that something completely new has to be set up for that. It's a huge job to build something like that. So I was very pleased with that social initiative. I wanted to build on that social initiative. Of course we're spending taxpayers' money here. The moment this is really going to take a flight... no entrepreneur could have said that because of those few tests in the field labs he ate one less sandwich. By the way, at this stage, what is it? 8 000 tests or so a day. You can't really make the grand prize out of that. But later it could be 400,000 tests a day, so there is a serious market. So at that point, you really need to deal adequately with public money. And yes, indeed, then you have to give entrepreneurs the chance to go along with this assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u427	That is a comprehensive answer, but it is not an answer to the question I asked. This was foreseen earlier. We had this discussion in December and January. If you launch a tender in January, you really don't have to wait until the end of May or early June. Then we could have done that much sooner, then we would have colored neatly within the rules and then we could have kept to the law. That's one. The second question I would like to ask is about prioritisation. I'm looking at Oldhand Animal Park and Keukenhof. That is all very nice and kind, but during the discussion in the Chamber, during the debate in the Chamber, we also talked about the safe opening up of education. Does education or other priorities set by the Chamber also play a role in testing and opening up schools, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u428	We test in schools much more intensively and we also make much more possible there much earlier. We work there first with guided self-dosing. In the meantime, we are also at the stage of issuing the antigen tests that we ourselves are taking. We have them individually packaged and we ensure that they are delivered to the schools, so that teachers can do a self-test twice a week and the students can do a risk-based self-test. In higher education, we want to make it possible for all students to test themselves. But that's different from access testing. That has really been discussed in detail in the Chamber before. In any case, several chamber letters have been written about it. You have been able to follow this whole process of thinking and that whole policy-making, I think. In education, we want these tests not to be made available, but not in a form where access is obstructive. Let's take the restaurant as an example again. I don't know if that's the best example, but it's obvious. At a restaurant you can let more people be in the business than would actually be justified if you didn't do self-tests. Why is that justified? Because you're pretty sure the bubble of the people inside doesn't carry that infection. That's "almost" because one can always slip through. So almost certainly; that's one. Whatever you can do is make it possible to do something sooner than you could otherwise. For example, in step 2 of the open plan sent to you, you have been able to see: flow-through locations inside. That's an ugly policy word for something like a museum, for example. Actually, they wouldn't be justified yet. Flow-through locations outside, flow-through locations inside not yet in step 2, but you will try to make that possible again with access test. Well, that's a party, I think... for a museum and for people who want to go to a museum, with access tests, all thanks to access tests. In addition, higher education. But look, at access tests at a restaurant, at a museum, you can keep someone out with a negative test result. Well, keeping someone out in higher education isn't what we want to do with each other. We just want those kids to be able to go back to school, because it's been so long since they could physically go to school. So that's where we do it along the line of intensive self-testing. And through these self-tests we know that that meeting, which is actually quite exciting in such large numbers, is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u429	I think I'm on question four of my six questions. And the Minister can rest assured, you know, I'm not going to put everything on this subject. But my last question about this. However, I would like a little more clarity about the time span. We knew this in December or January. In my view, there is a January speech in the Chamber, which DENK did not support. We are not enthusiastic about the idea of exuberant testing; let me say that again. But could the Minister not have foreseen this in January, so that he could have turned off the tender and acted properly? That's one. Secondly, if the Minister says "access testing or testing in schools is not an obstacle to participation in education," then there is also a Chamber ruling on this. But recently we saw in the news that, for example, Radboud University, I think students will want to stay away from the next academic year if they do not provide proof of test. Is the Minister opposed to that? Is he going to address Radboud University with: no, that's not really the intention, we don't want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u430	I've already responded to that. That news came in when I happened to be with Good Morning Netherlands - which is usually too early and that's why I'm so few. But then I said right: that seems a bit strange to me, because that is the new school year and course year. I honestly hope that by then we will just be vaccinated with each other and have that virus under control, so let's not get ahead of ourselves. If you don't have to, that access test for higher education, I'd rather not. Well, we're gonna deal with that bill next week, I hope. And if we get it established tomorrow in the Council of Ministers, and if we can deal with it in the Chamber next week, we can also get to work on it quickly. So that's the timetable. Indeed, the reverse timetable is that, when that social initiative came forward, we said to the Open Netherlands Foundation: embrace it, because it would allow us to move much faster to using test capacity in a start-up phase for the field labs, in a pilot phase ahead of the legislative proposal; after the legislative proposal, we can only do that access test before the answer, but we already want to see how that works in practice. And the experiences with that are simply positive, so it is very nice that we can gain that experience. By the way, there is still a lot to learn about how to do differently. And that experience can be gained now because we have been able to get started so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u431	Thank you. Mr Kuzu, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u432	Mr President, the very last question, because I am not getting a clear answer to it. In January, the Chamber gave its opinion on test certificates and tickets. In his reply, the Minister constantly gives the example of the Open Netherlands foundation. Well, a nice initiative; I think we all understood that. But I would like to know from the Minister whether other providers occurred in January. It may be that that is not the case. Is there fair competition and fair competition? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u433	Yeah, look, I've known that test market for a year or so. And one thing that strikes me in the past year is that all the entrepreneurs involved in testing are not the entrepreneurs to take the most pity. They've been good farmers for the past year; really, all of them. And this, this start-up phase, is not a huge demand we place in the market. That's what we do with the G.D.D. There you can really say: what laboratory capacity has been asked for with each other, that is astronomical. And by the way, a lot of companies are making a big deal out of that. Not at all bad at all, because we really need it, so it's just fine that this all exists. That's for the G.D.D. This start-up phase now, with those few tests at the field labs and those 8,000 or so tests on average per day over the month of April for the pilot access tests, that's not the biggest market share these entrepreneurs really had to jump over. We have said from the beginning: if it actually takes a flight, so if we move to phase 2, in which we are going to do it for the ultrasound, in which it may have been built up to 350,000 to 400,000 tests a day, then it is about a serious assignment. Then it must also be tendered, because that is public money. That is our agreement with the Foundation Open Nederland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u434	And Mr Kuzu's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u435	This was the answer to Mr Kuzu's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u436	Mr Kuzu has asked a question about other providers. Mr. Kuzu, perhaps you could ask your question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u437	Again, I think fair competition and competition are important. The Minister has tried to answer that, but that is about the subsequent implementation. Why was the Open Netherlands Foundation chosen to implement this? Has there been fair competition and competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u438	No, we chose the foundation very consciously. On the contrary, we have deliberately not chosen a tender. There was also no alternative to the Stichting Open Nederland. There's no such thing. Of course, there are commercial test providers. They do exist. But they can be awarded the contract of the Stichting Open Nederland. VWS has therefore deliberately not tendered for the foundation itself. VWS did that together with EZK and OCW. It is a nice social initiative that we have embraced. However, we do believe that this means that tax money goes to suppliers. And so, as soon as it starts to take a flight, the market must be able to share in that. So where they have used the services of one company for the start-up phase, they simply have to make a call for tenders afterwards. And that's really been agreed from the start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u439	I'm sorry, because it's really about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u440	Try to ask the question very concretely!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u441	Yes, but the question is: why the Stichting Open Nederland? I think that's what the article of Follow the Money is based on. Because that's what this is supposed to be about, isn't it? Have there not been any other good social initiatives in the last period that could, or could, do so better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u442	I am not familiar with any other social initiative for this purpose, with this experience, with this proven impact, at least as far as the people involved are concerned. No, I don't know any similar initiative. Of course, I know a lot of commercial test providers. There's a lot of them. These have increased both in volume and in number in the past year. That makes sense, too. And I know a lot of them. But they can't just take this on, which this foundation does. This foundation is responsible for the construction of the entire parallel test infrastructure. And within it, different test providers can then offer their services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u443	It was a bit of a wait, but in the end you get the turn! Of course, I did not ask any questions about the side effects of vaccines, because I did so about six weeks ago. Then it was dismissed as fake news. But I am glad to hear that everyone is asking questions about this now and that the Minister has also noticed that it was not fake news, but that there are just side effects. But now it's about the test society. That's a society we're heading hard for right now. That is something we, as a forum for democracy, really do not want. It is a fundamental change in society. My first question is this. We are now going to use those rapid tests, which are notoriously more unreliable than the PCR test. We're going to test healthy people with low prevalence. So how does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u444	For the sake of Mr Van Haga's introduction, I cannot let that pass. What I spoke to you about then was your unproven suggestion that a lot of people died in the nursing homes after they were vaccinated. This gave you the suggestion that this was due to vaccination. I went into that at the time, and I said that what Forum is constantly doing, what you are constantly doing, is trivialising the seriousness of the virus, contesting the measures against it, and then making the only way out of this crisis suspect again and again, suspecting the vaccination. That's not what we're doing. The debate we have just had with the rest of the Chamber is indeed the serious consideration of possible side effects, of actual side effects, and then let the system do its job. That's early detection of security issues and acting on them. In short, that is something completely different from what your contribution has been in the debate all along. Then it's about the quick testing. The antigen tests are slightly less reliable than the PCR test. That's true. By the way, the PCR test has never been fully applauded by you, but the PCR test is simply the golden standard. It's very reliable. The antigen test has a lesser reliability, but since you take it so frequently, it eliminates the disadvantage. If you do self-test in higher education with all students who come to college, there will be asymptoms in between. They discover by the self-test that they should actually stay at home, even though they have no complaints. Because they didn't feel them, but they do know that they have to stay home that day. It could be that there is indeed a false positive between them. It's possible. But, yeah, better to keep a false positive home and have that day in online class, than to let all kinds of people who are asymptomaticly contagious but do not experience any complaints, go to school and infect the rest. In short, if you use the self-tests very intensively, you know that it is less reliable, but because of the frequency and intensity you still have quite a trap for infectiouss. That's why we want to use them that way. The same applies to access tests. With a 24-hour negative antigen test, we stretch it a bit to make the tests easy to apply.You can really assume that the number of false positives that slip through is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u445	We're not trivializing anything. It's a very serious virus. Only the solutions we propose are different. The false positives in a PCR test, e.g. with a 3% error margin with a 0.1% prevalence, are 97%. If that of the quick tests is even worse, then you really get into a very weird, dystopian situation with a lot of false positives. Anyway, we continue to disagree on that. The problem is that you transferred 925 million to a foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u446	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u447	We shall allow Mr Van Haga to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u448	You're gonna do a pilot, and I'm sure you're gonna do it all. What will happen to the costs of those tests once your test society is in place? Then all these entrepreneurs will be responsible for the costs all the time. That is pointless and unnecessary in our view, but it is a cost increase. How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u449	In all the elements of the question, I only hear false assumptions. Let me peel them off one by one. One. No, I didn't wire 925 million. It just isn't. We didn't. We've built in all kinds of safety valves, and we're doing it phase by phase. Every time we move to a next stage of access testing, we review what is a real cost estimate and what costs the foundation and its subcontractors have to make. Then we arrive at an advance payment et cetera. We then simply pay the costs actually incurred. So, no, no 925 million euros have been transferred. Two. I'm not after a test society. I think it's good to explain, because that word sticks a bit. The word was once coined by Jesse Klaver in a debate in which he was somewhat creepy in my opinion, together with Pieter Heerma, came to enthusiasm for the development of a test society. That's how it happened. That was also an exotic collaboration. So I thought it was creepy. I've always thought: we shouldn't have a test society as a target. It's not an ideal idea that you can only participate in society after you've been tested. That is also where your initial hesitation or repulsion against the test society is. Honestly, I do understand some of that, although you might find that crazy to hear. Without seeing this whole test society as an ideal image, you're going to want, very sober and practical, of course again just that you can go to a restaurant with a little more people. That restaurant owner would like that, though! You also want to be able to go back to a museum. Mrs Marijnissen dares never say it again, but she might want to go to Feijenoord-Vitesse by the end of the month. That is not possible at all, unless Mrs Marijnissen participates in access tests. Now, however, Mrs Marijnissen has already said all sorts of ugly things about access tests. In short, I think access tests are going to make a lot of people very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u450	And your answer to Mr Van Haga's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u451	Well, that was actually this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u452	No matter how interesting the treatise is, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u453	I thought it was a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u454	The cost to the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u455	There aren't any, because we pay... You even thought I'd already wired it, but we'll pay it with each other. There are therefore no costs for entrepreneurs. What could happen at some point is that you ask for your own contribution, but then we really are a lot further. That own contribution does not go to entrepreneurs, because that own contribution is for the people who buy a ticket for Lowlands or for another festival where you have to test access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u456	That's good to hear. So you can promise me... At least, I just conclude from this that an entrepreneur never has to pay for tests to get into his restaurant. That's never gonna happen, because the government's gonna facilitate that. The government's gonna pay it, and we're basically gonna pay it all together. The taxpayer's gonna pay for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u457	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u458	Okay. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u459	That's nice, isn't it? A restaurant becomes more exploitable and for entrepreneurs it is really only very good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u460	Well, no, that's not good news at all. I don't think a lot of people want to do that at all. Anyway, if it had to be paid for, then it was completely annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u461	Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u462	I have another follow-up question, Mr. Chairman. Then it would be either death or amputate your arm. Anyway, you're gonna pay for it all. We're all gonna pay for it. Fine. You have to start setting up that test society for zoos, churches and schools. Have you studied the social impact on children when you start applying that test society to schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u463	"Applying the Test Society" are words I don't recognize. We're not gonna do that. What you want is for it to be safe in basic education. By the way, we will only do so at risk for children. We do it for teachers, because teachers sometimes feel unsafe when they are in the classroom with young children all the time, for example on the vo. After all, we know that the virus can go around pretty well there. This also applies to the superstructure of primary education. That's why teachers love that they have more certainty. It's just an offer, a service offer. It's not a duty or anything, it's just an offer to the vo and to the p.o. Teachers are offered periodic testing and we only do so at risk with students, so only in the event of an outbreak, for example, or after contact with someone who has come up in the source and contact research. In higher education, a lot of students are together, and that's why we say to higher education, "Go do it." That's what we're gonna say to the MBO. That's what students want to do when they go to school. On the morning after brushing their teeth, they can swap for a while. Did we investigate the impact of that? Well, no, we haven't really had that chance either, because we don't have an example elsewhere. However, there are several countries that are doing this. But we don't have any research data on that. We just want to do it to make things possible there again. Otherwise we should say to higher education: otherwise we all find it a little too exciting, but under the condition of self-testing it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u464	It hasn't been investigated. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u465	So it hasn't been investigated and we don't know what traumatic effects this has on children. In any case, I am glad to hear that this is not going to be compulsory in any way, not in secondary schools, nor for the students. It'll never be mandatory to test yourself before you can go in. It's just a little preemptive. I have one final comment to make. Isn't it better to reduce this test society a little bit and only apply it at times when you enter a nursing home, for example, because there are vulnerable people there? You can't test there and not at a university or a festival, where you let perfectly healthy people under 50 go in. Those are people who aren't at all at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u466	Of course, "no" isn't right. By the way, you say something very interesting here. I'm not in favour of a test society, am I? It's not gonna be a test society either. No, you're going to make beautiful things, the things we love in our society, possible again by temporarily intensive testing. This way we keep the risks limited and we can do nice things again. That's what we're gonna do. Why doesn't it have to be in nursing homes? That's your example. It doesn't have to be there, because that's where we started vaccinating. You weren't excited about that. In fact, you tried to make that suspicious. We did that anyway and luckily in large numbers. I will come back to this in response to a question from Mrs Pouw, but that is why it is now in the nursing homes, where fully vaccinated,... A lot of people have been vaccinated there and if their visit has also been vaccinated, there is no need for an entry test at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u467	Mr. Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u468	Yeah, well, finally. We're not against vaccination. It is fine if people are voluntarily vaccinated; especially for vulnerable people that can be very good. But the scientists tell us that there are thousands of mutations, so your vaccination will be completed in six months. So maybe it's good to have that test society, or maybe you didn't want to use that word, to set up that test only for groups living somewhere together or something and who are vulnerable. I'll give you that. That they are now vaccinated: fine. But in six months we'll have another, I know what, The Hague variant...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u469	Well, that Hague variant talks so much that it can never get infected!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u470	...and then they're not protected anymore and we'd better run a test before we enter the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u471	I've been trying to read the letter the Minister sent us fairly well. What struck me on the first page was that the vaccines are the way out of the crisis. The Minister, as the son of Reformed Bundesdominee, will understand that I see it a bit in the light of the Heidelberg catechism, Sunday 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u472	Me, the son of a Reformed Federal Reverend? Don't let my dad hear it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u473	Confessionally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u474	Yes, confessionally of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u475	Oh, but then you know the catechism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u476	Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u477	I'm sorry I made a mistake. I see it in that light, but if you look at it pragmatically...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u478	Mr Paternotte has checked out. You're gonna have to catch up with him later. Something about church history could use that boy, I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u479	Exactly, exactly, but he's quite teachable, you know!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u480	That's a personal fact, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u481	"Researches all things and preserves the good": Thessalonians, the letters of Apostle Paul. I think it is very important that the Minister has that principle in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u482	Well, absolutely! That is why we are investigating access tests and preserving the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u483	That my little mistake led to this, I like it. We drink coffee once in a while, Mr. Paternotte! Anyway, if we look at it pragmatically, I agree with the Minister and I think the vaccines are going to offer a way out in about four or five months. It also looks pretty solid, I must say. I followed that technical briefing. Defense is also in the background once again ready to control the situation. I think that might be true. Then we've got about five months to cover. That's what we're doing with these tests for now. That's why we're gonna set up a whole thing. But one thing is triggering me. The minister said we're gonna do something that's never been shown before, so we're not sure if it works either. Then I'll think back to last year. At that time we also had the place fairly open with protocols for companies, amusement parks, museums, and so on. My question is actually: has the Minister also put these two situations side by side, so as things went last year with protocols, which we know works, versus testing now, in which we put a lot of money and which is still the question of whether it will work? I'd like a piece of floor and an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u484	First of all, I like what you say: I do believe that we can get out of this crisis along the line of vaccination. It is very important that you, the SGP, express that view. I like that. Two. Does this work? Yeah, we know that by now based on the field labs. The scientific experiment was about whether you could be in a safe bubble behind the gate. That's possible, because it's been tested. By the way, not all tests have been equally successful. There were a few of them where a number of people were infected. But most have been quite successful with no or at most a single infection. That is precisely where many infections at the gate were stopped, so that you could send those people to the GGD, do source and contact research, etc., to stop the infection there again. So the field labs were the scientific experiments to see if this works the way we want it to work. Are you keeping the infections out and staying in? That works. Now we are in the pilots trying out the phenomenon of access testing at all. Any luck with those who come in to work with that app? Does that app work practically at all? Does it work for entrepreneurs to use that check app, that other side of it, the checker side, properly? Is the appointment system working? So we're actually doing pilots in today's practice to see if it works that way. If we know these two things and can learn from them, then we will be able to do it before the end of the day. My expectation is indeed that in a few months' time this will be quite practical for smaller activities as well. I mentioned restaurants. By the way, I am quite sure that restaurants, if they can, want to get rid of it as soon as possible and simply complete their business. Then I come to your question about what we learned from last year. If we are very honest, we learned from last year that we have gone far too far in letting go of the measures. That was the dispute just after the summer: shouldn't the cabinet have kept a firmer basis for action? Haven't we gone too far in relaxing that? I think you should say that afterwards about last summer. We're not gonna make that mistake again. We're going down the stairs carefully. That's how you see the open plan. Access testing is a temporary part of it. If we're really a few months away, I think, if I had to estimate it now, that by then we're just gonna be doing bigger events, where you're really back together with thousands of people, with those access tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u485	Returning to the Minister's first remark. I don't think any SGP guy ever said: vaccines don't work, not a single vaccine. Only the question is whether you rely on a vaccine or on God, and that is considered differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u486	Maybe it's not either. Well, you can still do that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u487	It can be, I admit. But there's this differentiation. So should the suggestion be that SGPs say "a vaccine wouldn't work": it's not. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u488	We'll do that another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u489	Exactly, but it's good to share that here for a while. We're about to get on that pilot. What if that pilot doesn't work? Is the alternative for the protocols to come back? Is that an alternative weighting, where we might do it more carefully, less long? Anyway, then, I think, a lot of people have been vaccinated. Are those scenarios in there, too? Could that pilot fail, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u490	Sure. That pilot could fail. What we want to do with these access tests is to make more things possible or rather to make things possible. We never want to set a threshold for something that could have been done without access tests. Why don't you take that restaurant again? Suppose it would have been safe to sit in that restaurant with hundreds of them, a very large restaurant then: Van der Valk, three halls full of et cetera without access tests. Then why would you do access tests? It's gonna take a few cents, we've seen each other. It is also quite an organisation, also for those entrepreneurs. So if we don't have to, of course we won't. So you do it to make things possible before or to make more things possible. That's the only reason to do it. In practice, therefore, it is not yet working properly. It may well be that we are now looking at a sector where we want to, but after a while you say: this is so clumsy; is this really necessary or can we organise it in another way? I'm pretty sure there's a couple of sectors in between where the net doesn't work. Then we shouldn't do it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u491	Mr Segers. And I would like to ask the Minister to give us a short answer, because we also have another minister who would like to say something about the health bonus. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u492	The minister says we started with the field labs and we're doing pilots to stick the toe in the water and see how that goes. That sounds small-scale, a little trial-and-error. If I go through that list, I think we have such a wide-ranging society with so many activities, and then I see 27 casinos with 11,000 people going in there. Then I think, "Why?" That's not a pilot anymore, is it? That's a mass event.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u493	No. Mr Segers seems to be falling a bit over the casino. A sinful place for rich right-wing people, that is a bit of the image that Mr Segers should have. You know, you don't have to go there. I'm not going either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u494	But your answer to Mr Segers is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u495	There are also small, cute museums in between. There are family parks, amusement parks. There's a lot of stuff in there. And why? Because we just want to try it out in practice. In your question you make the suggestion that we are actually secretly opening a bit. I also read that in the OMT recommendation. I just don't share that. When we look at the activities, we see that there are about 100 activities throughout the month of April, spread across all kinds of sectors. This has been discussed very intensively by my colleagues from EZK, from OCW and from Sport, and so there is also a lot of things in it, about the full breadth of society. Of all the industries that have said "we are going to participate in these pilots," we have said: well, fun, join in, we are going to make that possible. If you look at the whole of the activities, that is very clear. It's about on average about 8,000 tickets a day, 8,000, so let's say you have to go back and forth and about 16,000 moves. From an epidemiological point of view, it is negligible on the whole of the movements we have in society. If you have a little bowl, you can test it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u496	Last question from Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u497	If you look at business activities: these are a few training agencies. These are a few small-scale activities under the heading of business meetings. But if you're going to look at casinos and gambling halls, yes, I have certain feelings about that, but I think: okay, that's got to have a pilot somewhere too, so there's 27 for 11,000 people. For 11,000 people! I mean, do you really need one? The OMT says: that's really too large-scale, we don't need that to know whether it works or not. Maybe I'm a bad person, but then I think there's a business interest in this too. There is a greater interest in this and perhaps a very good lobby. All that might be possible, but I really can't place 27 casinos with 11,000 people in all of the activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u498	There's a business interest in access testing at all. And why? Because entrepreneurs want to make their business more exploitable with that access testing. That's the driver for entrepreneurs to want to participate in access tests. You're barely up to anything. For example, the groups are 30 large in step 3 of the open plan, but with 30 you can't run your cinema, you can't run your theatre and you might not be able to run your restaurant if it's a very large restaurant. And so you can use access tests more. That's the driver for entrepreneurs to participate in access tests. That is why I do not find it difficult at all to spend taxpayers' money on access tests, because that makes entrepreneurs more exploitable, which means they need less of the support measures. So there is definitely a business interest. There is an economic interest. By the way, people have their paychecks again, so that's not something dirty or anything. That's not a bad thing or a scary thing. That's just how the economy has to run. Money must be earned first. So that's fine. That's totally fine. In this pilot phase, no company gets rich, because behind the gate of the access tests at 1.5 meters there is still so little that no company, not even a casino, actually incurs its costs here. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u499	Mrs Hermans had an interruption. I don't see her right now, but I do now. We have a very neat order. And then Mr. Dassen comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u500	Excuse me, I thought Mr. Dassen was still mine. One point I need to make right. In an interruption debate with Mrs Marijnissen in the first place, I quickly tested and got everything mixed up, but of course it was about the access tests in the form of rapid tests. Anyway, to correct the ambiguity I caused. Then my question to the Minister. I understand and I share the importance of this foundation. My first question to the Minister was: why was the letter of 23 February, which described in detail that this foundation was being set up, not saying anything about the finances and expenditures planned for or for this foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u501	Why, you mean? I don't know. There's no intention. In my opinion, because we also sometimes write letters of some magnitude, I have really shared every thought development over the past few months when it comes to testing and when it comes to track 2, so 2a access testing, 2b safer working, 2c safer studying. We have really shared every step of our thinking with the Chamber. I believe that I have written down and written down that we wanted to move to stage 0 and that we would also take care of the funding, but it may well be that we did not mention the numbers. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u502	In that sense, I did agree with Mrs Marijnissen: when it comes to such a large amount, it is good and also important to give an insight into it in time. My urgent request would therefore be to include in these extended letters something about all the steps that will follow from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u503	I get that very well, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u504	We have also discussed in detail today the extent to which the measures already in place have been accepted and reduced. I was wondering: has the analysis of these field labs taken into account the consequences that the image of photos of this kind of big events could have on complying with the measures that we still have with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u505	To be honest, I am not sure what the consequences will be for compliance. What I do know, because you've just heard and seen, is that people who could do something again on that day had oxygen right away. They thought right away: yes, this shows possibilities. There have been people to that interland in that Amsterdam stadium and they have enjoyed it. They were back together and could sing another national anthem. They've had a great time, I understand on Twitter. 'Cause that's where I get to. There have been more people who have just had a fantastic day and that is of course absolutely beautiful. So it did give them perspective. To be honest, I am afraid to say whether it has done anything about compliance. I don't think there's any record of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u506	I can imagine that at the moment that other people see that, they think: so do I. If they are not eligible, the willingness to comply with the measures themselves may fall. I would ask the Minister to look closely at the consequences of these events and to take them into account in the communication of these events, including towards society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u507	I get that. We're definitely trying to do that for the people who are part of this pilot. Then you'll be invited to come. You bought a ticket, you take your ticket to the test street and you take your test. If that test is positive, you have to do source and contact research, for example. In fact, the people who take part are being encouraged to comply with the measures. But the other people? It's a good thing you're giving me that point. To be honest, I didn't put that on my retina that way. By the way, I understand that "yes, I do" feeling very well. I hope that is precisely the trigger for people, for entrepreneurs, for example, to participate and for people to want to be part of it. I just hope that that "yes, I do" feeling is going to bring us nice things in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u508	I certainly hope so. I just think that with the current ic capacity, which is rather heavily occupied, with the number of infections that are still very high and with all the uncertainties that are coming towards us, there must still be a certain urgency to ensure that the measures that have been taken are complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u509	Absolutely, absolutely. Very true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u510	I hope you will take that into account, including in communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u511	Also in communication. Absolutely. A good point, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u512	Thank you. Then I'd like to ask the Minister to stop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u513	Stop at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u514	If there are any questions left, we still have a second term. I thank the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. We're gonna go clean for a little while. Ah, Mr. Wilders. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u515	Sorry. I had a question that didn't fall under a block and it was about the nursing homes. If that's okay, one more question. The latest OMT advice presented new rules for nursing homes. It says that in nursing homes where the vaccination rate is higher than 80% may be slightly higher. Of course that's nice, but I was wondering: if you have a nursing home where more than 80% has been vaccinated, why isn't the time come for you to go back to the old normal? Why, for example, would you not be able to leave it to the nursing staff themselves, voluntarily, if they still want to wear protective clothing? At present, one or a few persons may keep a distance less than 1.5 metres in an older person's home who has been vaccinated. Why should you if you have been vaccinated and the nursing home has been vaccinated for more than 80% of the time?Sometimes it's 86%, 87% or 88%. So nice that it's relaxed, but I was wondering why we don't go back to that old normal when almost everyone is vaccinated and people are vaccinated in their own room. Can you take another look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u516	Yes, very fair question. This was also Mrs Pouw-Verweij's question. It was a somewhat abrupt end, but this is a very fair question. I feel so sorry for you. The point is that at the moment the prevalence outside the nursing home is still very high. There are 160,000 infectious agents. The odds of someone entering that nursing home for visitation with that virus under its feet are pretty high. 80% protection means that 20% is not. And the people who are protected, of course, are all people with weak immune systems. Then you're not quite sure how high that protection is. So if 100 people are protected with 92% protection after the second shot of Pfizer, you have to assume that 8% of people can still get that infection. Reinfection is also very conceivable in people at this age. That's what we hear from the nursing homes. In short, I think it is a good thing that we had the experts look into this. But I think your question actually has a background: are we not overly cautious? This is also the subject of our discussion with the sector. And the sector says: we're not, but we do understand that we have something to do with our client councils, too, with our residents, to see what can be done. So there is no intention to keep things still closed out of excessive caution, but the intention to see what can be done. From that last intention one wants to see on location how far you could go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u517	A lot of people are doing this. It is felt that there should be a little more to be done than now when the mother or grandmother has been vaccinated and almost everyone in that room has been vaccinated, and for example grandmother or mother's birthday. Perhaps you could pay some attention to this in the next letter you send to the Chamber for the next debate. I think it's next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u518	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u519	In that letter, could you give some thought to the question of whether there could be more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u520	I don't know if I can do that next week. But at least I'll do that in another letter. If it doesn't work next week, one or two weeks later. I would very much like to go into that. What is the state of mind in the sector? And how can we further promote this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u521	I would like to thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for his comprehensive response in the first term. There is now a small changement. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u522	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall answer a number of questions immediately. Most are about the health bonus, but I have also been asked about the extra hands on the bed, about youth competitions, about the trade in live animals and about the slaughterhouses. That's my agenda, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the bonus scheme. Today the Chamber has often spoken and repeated that our healthcare professionals have been showing their enormous commitment during the corona pandemic for over a year. I am not the only one who appreciates this very much; I taste it in the Chamber and I taste it throughout society. That's why we promised on Princess Day that we'd have another bonus of €500 for 2021. That's what the books say. The budget also states that an amount of EUR 720 million has been earmarked for this purpose. Where did that come from? The bonus has been promised in line with the 2020 bonus scheme. It was meant to be a token of appreciation. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, my breathing's a little off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u523	It's okay. Take a breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u524	I've been through this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u525	It's okay. It's okay. Why don't we just suspend for a little while? Perhaps you'd like a glass of water? I can imagine it, because you have of course been in the same position for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u526	No, you don't have to suspend. It's just a wrong beginning in the sense, and that goes wrong in my breathing. There's nothing else to worry about. This bonus has therefore been promised in line with the 2020 bonus scheme. And that bonus scheme was, of course, based on the motion that was adopted very widely in the Chamber. This scheme was about the appreciation for healthcare professionals, who have performed an excellent performance in the fight against COOVID-19. The Minister of VWS mentioned this, as did the Prime Minister. Everyone in health care works hard, but this was the battle against COOVID-19. The bonus scheme has been used to a large extent. I'll say a little more about that later. We had a budget of 1.44 billion for that bonus scheme. This has been pushed up by EUR 800 million, bringing a total of EUR 3 billion in the budget for the years 2020 and 2021 for the bonus. Last Friday I let you know what the options are for the bonus payment in 2021. That has everything to do with it. I hope I will have the time to explain to you the extent to which healthcare providers have requested the bonus. That means that I expect that the amount for 2021 cannot lead to a bonus of €500, if we calculate it in the same way. What's that all about? The 2020 budget has been estimated with the assumption that not every healthcare professional does work in the fight against covid.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The assumption was then that about two thirds of the employees would. The application rate for the 2020 bonus was around 88%. The application was so wide that, although unintentionally, the bonus was given the character of a generic reward, rather than a specific remuneration for covid care. We have a budget established by the Chamber. The cabinet is a missionary. This means that the bonus for 2021 should take shape within the available budget. That is something I also reported to the Chamber in the letter of 8 December, the co-vid letter. In the direction of Mrs Westerveld, I would like to say that this is also the reason why you cannot just give everyone €500. That's where the hard choice comes from. Also because it is a bonus that is originally based on a ruling from the Chamber, I would like to discuss that choice with the Chamber. I see two options. Either all health care professionals receive a lower bonus than the net €500, depending on how many people they apply for between €200 and €240, or we choose a bonus of €500, but then you have to frame the group of healthcare professionals. I will answer your questions and give my own reflection on them at the end, as Mrs Hermans asked. In both situations, we are working with a closed budget, because only then will we be sure that the budget will not be exceeded again. The total budget currently amounts to some EUR 3 billion. Those are huge amounts of money. Converted means that about €200 will have to be paid by every adult Dutchman. A closed budget means that we fix the final bonus amount when we know the final number of applications. In response to Mr Paternotte's questions, I will also indicate how I see it, but in practical terms it means that the more targeted employers apply for this bonus in the light of the exceptional covid care performance, the higher the amount available for an individual bonus. Where did the time pressure come from? Of course, we want to give people as short as possible at the time when the covid care is delivered the bonus. This means that, with the approximately two months of time needed for the subsidy scheme to regulate its implementation properly, we need to take decisions at this point in time. There's a choice. I will answer the questions that have been asked about this and also give my own reflection, but I would like to stress once again that the respect for all health care providers is extremely great for the work they do in health care, both in terms of covid, and in terms of regular care and catching up care. This is also what I say in the direction of Mr Kuzu, who asked: how did it happen? Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte, I also tasted it with others, asking whether it is possible to see for whom the bonus is actually intended. We made a handout last year as a VWS. The final consideration of who gets the bonus lies with the healthcare providers, because that is where the best view is on who meets the conditions. We have learned from the 2020 bonus that healthcare providers make different considerations in this regard. I think it is all the more important now that we ensure that the bonus ends up with the caregivers who should actually receive it in the light of the intention of this scheme. I therefore intend to update the hand-out that I made earlier. I will also talk to employers to find out if they have any suggestions on how to promote a good selection, because the more targeted the bonus can be applied for, the higher it may fall. At the opening of the window, I will once again draw the attention of the applicants to make that selection. Mr Segers asked: could one and a half modes be applied to option 2, as with option 1? He asked: how are we doing with the one and a half modes and who would fall out? I heard widely in the Chamber that ICU employees should at least be included. You could lower the income limit on option 2 from two modes to one and a half modes. This means that the bonus will increase by about €30, depending on the application rate, so just over the thumb, compared to the income limit of twice the modal. Because we are looking at the beginning of the scale, the specialist nurse, for example the nurse working on the ic or on the ambulance, is still eligible for the bonus at the income limit of one and a half times the modal. Who doesn't? The group between one and a half modes and two modes is the FWG 70 group. That's a pretty diverse group. I cannot put it exactly this way here, but it is often a question of university-educated care workers. Think of a clinical psychologist, low-grade doctors and a number of management functions. Mr President, I am coming towards the end of this block. Mr Paternotte referred to the letter from the VGN and asked: what about the employees in disability care, who also made an extra effort? Yes, they have, I say in his direction. That is why it is a difficult dilemma. Then how do you make that choice? How did that choice come about in Option 1? I tried to outline that dilemma. With option 1 you look at the question: which branches have provided intensive care for covid patients; who is really in the front line? Then you come to the general practitioners, the health centers, the umc's, the hospitals, the ambulance services, the care and home care. What are you getting that on? That's relative, because that doesn't affect the performance of people in other sectors. It's about a relatively high absenteeism. Then you look at other sectors, such as disability care. Then you see that the pressure of covid patients was relatively less. This doesn't mean I see the examples in my own environment too, which hasn't worked very hard there. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the last question of this block. It belongs to Mrs Hermans, who says: how would you do it yourself? You may have noticed from my non-verbal communication just now that I find it difficult to choose a sector, but that is one of the possibilities. My choice in this dilemma would be next. I am happy to put it here now, so that the Chamber can also take that into account, for example for the second term. I would like to shape option 2 myself. This has to do with the fact that health care is extremely diverse and that work is very hard everywhere and that the consequences of corona are also visible everywhere. I have weekly consultations myself, and if necessary more often, with all sectors of health care in the broadest possible range. This includes ggz, youth care, disability care, vvt and hospital care shoulder to shoulder to fight the corona crisis. I would then like to put aside the choice between sectors for the idea that we are doing it together. We also say that only together can we handle corona. I'd still like to take that team feeling and say, "We'll do it together." I also honestly think that it might be a little better for our folk spirit that we treat people who work equally hard the same way. Then everyone a little less, but together shoulder to shoulder. I would like to say to the Chamber that I hope it will give its opinion on this matter and that I would like to give shape to option 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u527	I'm sorry to say it, but I think it's a really bad story. The Minister needs a lot of text to explain to him that she is not going to keep her own promise to caregivers. This cabinet has promised that caregivers will receive a one-off bonus of €500. And she's just gonna come back to that now. I find that not only shameless, but also irresponsible. Of all those people in healthcare, who have been leading the fight against this virus for more than a year, we are asking extremely much again. We need them all, all of them, all of them. Then we can't use that. What I think is perhaps the worst of all, is that the Minister is doing it to say a little between the nose and the lips, as the letter also said: "Do you know what it costs, such a bonus for caregivers? This costs up to €200 per Dutchman!" Why do we never hear that when it was just about the billion that goes to business or about the support for KLM? Then I never read in the letters of the cabinet: gosh, do you know what this costs per Dutchman? We never hear or see that! And then this minister performed it first of all to not keep his own promise, so to give caregivers a slap in the face, because it is promised to them, but it is not kept, and secondly to say for a moment and password: do you know what that cost per person? I told you, but I find this really shameless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u528	The 2021 budget makes it very clear that a bonus of €500 will be available, which is € 720 million in the books. Those are two things that are incompatible. Why? This has proved to be the case in recent months. The percentage we expected would be applied for is simply much higher. So it's two and one. You can't do 500 euros for 720 million euros. We're a missionary cabinet. The budget was adopted by the entire House of Representatives. Moreover, it is also the case that a outgoing cabinet produces a policy-poor spring note. Then I find the amount of EUR 3 billion that stands for 2020 and 2021 of an order of magnitude that sometimes I find it difficult for myself to determine how you imagine it. That is why I indicated that this is €200 per adult Dutchman. I am trying to indicate to the Chamber: something has happened since we put this in the books, we have had experience with the 2020 scheme; how are we going to do it in 2021? In December, when we were still missionary, I indicated to the Chamber: it is one thing and another; it is the total amount for which we will have to do it. I took that up after we shared it with the Chamber. That's right in front of this. I sincerely believe that, with the choice that is now being made, we want to pay a bonus across the healthcare sector, and we also give our hands and feet to that appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u529	The Minister is now hiding behind the fact that the cabinet is decommissioned, but that argument is not valid either. We have just heard the Prime Minister and passerby say: those packages of support are just going on, you guys. The billions are flying out of this place. That's just going to go on. It's just been reported. We just had a discussion here about more than one billion going to business, the financial basis of which was not even in the information we received as a Chamber. Apparently, none of that matters. Then it's not a problem that the cabinet is a missionary. And now, precisely in relation to the promise made to carers, that group for which there is so much appreciation and which we need so much, to return to that promise, of all things, with such a false argument, because it is an unfair argument, I really do not think it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u530	Maybe we should go back. I already indicated in December that this is the amount that is in front of it, so I will involve it in the design of the 2021 scheme. One point of attention raised by Mr Paternotte is that you can also talk to employers about how to make selection criteria. The fact is that the government depends on how employers apply. We saw that in the previous arrangement. Based on the figures and insights we had, we expected that this would apply to two thirds of the healthcare staff, but it has been requested for more than 80% of the employees. That doesn't change the fact that there has been hard work in the care sector, but employers in the care sector also have their regular means of rewarding people who have performed a special achievement or a good performance. The total amount involved here is EUR 3 billion. This is available to the Cabinet for the bonus scheme in 2020 and 2021. I believe that with EUR 3 billion, we are in a very good way expressing the appreciation of the cabinet and also the Chamber for our healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u531	Mrs. Marijnissen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u532	Sure. The minister says that the previous bonus for 80% of the caregivers had been requested. Very nice, I'd say. Very good, because the minister completely ignores in her argument that working in care is of course a team sport. You're right. You're only doing that together. If extra hard work is required in one department, it will obviously also put pressure on other departments and other sectors of care. The last thing we need to do is play those caregivers against each other. I think that's a really bad way to do it. We have all those caregivers, in all these sectors, whether it is home care, the ic's, the disability care, call it all as much as it is necessary on........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because of this cabinet is to all of them, but that was not invented by them themselves, €500 promised and they are just entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u533	I understand that I had indicated both elements in the budget: 720 million and the €500, but it cannot be both. The total comes to 3 billion. In this way, the cabinet believes that we should discuss this choice with the Chamber. I tried that through this letter. I've also been asked what I think of it. I know very well what Mrs Marijnissen says: that feeling that we are doing it together. I think it would be better for us to put it down for the big group and divide it up with each other. In the spirit of the call originally made by the Chamber, I say that there are regular means of remuneration and this is specifically about people who have performed an extraordinary achievement in covid care. This also means that there is a choice for employers. That is a statement I make in response to the appeal from the Chamber. It's also in this bonus scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u534	Then there is a final question from Mr Paternotte and then from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u535	I have two questions and one remark, but I will try to cluster them very much. On disability care, the Minister says that it is an important task, but not in the front line. Earlier today, I saw that 37% of the healthcare providers in Limburg have experienced a corona contamination in disability care. They have to work in protective clothing with people who, because of their intellectual disabilities, are sometimes unable to deal with them at all. I can imagine that this feels very bad if it is on the frontline of this crisis. I understand what the Minister is saying, but I think it's good to establish that with each other. Two. The Minister says that the ICU nurses fall within the scope of this one and a half-time mode, because you look at the beginning of the scale. Do I understand that overtime allowances and such things can't cause ICU nurses to cross that line after all? Thirdly, I wonder if the Minister could comment on the pgbs in the Social Security Fund. I read in the letter that it will come back to this later, but on what basis will it look at it from now on? That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u536	Thank you. If the Minister wishes to deal with this in the second term... No? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u537	At first, yes. This is also my experience with disability care. You go looking with a dilemma: what could it look like and on what criteria do you base it? So we are indeed on the relative criteria I have mentioned. But I fully recognize the image and that's why I feel more senang on option two. Then the ic nurses: that's right. The PGB and the Health Insurance Act. Let me tell you about the thumb, because I don't know exactly. In fact, I have to keep some EUR 45 million. This regulation will be made later, because it will require a different implementation. We also saw this in the 2020 bonus scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u538	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u539	If I'm gonna spend money in my family, I'm gonna start by counting to see if I have that money. Otherwise, I won't spend it. On Prinsjesdag it was said that the care staff in the Netherlands would receive a bonus of €500. If that is said, I assume that there has been someone who has released a calculation and said: well, we have that money. Then we can also quietly say that they get it, because then we can just spend the money. But now it turns out it's not. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u540	No, Mrs Van der Plas is right to say this. In the summer there was talk about the implementation of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's motion on a bonus scheme for 2020. He's been supported by the House of Commons. That's when we started math, of course. We have had discussions with the employers and with all kinds of organisations and we have looked at how many people work in the front line of covid care. The assumption was: about two thirds, around 67%. That has been the basis for the 2020 bonus, which has been budgeted in the current year. It has also been included in the budget. In the run-up to a discussion on structural valuation, the cabinet said that we cannot do that in our last year, and that is why we are also doing a bonus scheme for 2021. We use the same assumptions as before 2020. At two thirds, you'll be up to 720 million. Well, then the window opened and then much more was requested than was expected. That has led to an adjustment in the Autumn note from.I say it from my mind.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At that time, the cabinet did say: we now have 3 billion in total and we will have to do so too. That's what the December letter says. And that means 720 million for 2021. That doesn't relate to the percentage of applications. In retrospect, you can say that the assumption was too cautious or that the amount was too low, depending on which side of the discussion you are looking at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u541	Mrs. Van der Plas, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u542	I think it makes sense for more applications to be made. Because if you throw it over the fence of the healthcare providers and say, "Determining who your dearest children are and who they are" there are, of course, healthcare providers who say: we are not going to do that, because we think everyone should have that. So there have probably been healthcare providers who have just requested this for everyone. And then you get to a higher amount. Then, as a government, you better say: we think that care personnel should be valued at €500? In the Netherlands, everything is registered, including those who work in healthcare. That's the number you're gonna do once $500. That's the amount you have for that. Don't we have that amount? Well, then it's gonna be $300, and eventually you're gonna bring an amount out. The amount of €500 has therefore been released without it being clear whether that money is there at all. That is why I believe we are having this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u543	What Mrs Van der Plas says, I recognise very much, because that is also what Mrs Marijnissen says. Whatever I recognize is that it's just really hard to distinguish. It doesn't fit in with our popularity, and of course it doesn't fit in with health care organisations, where there is always teamwork. In fact, I have a great deal of sympathy for employers. However, the point is that we had used it as an assumption in this scheme. It turns out to be wrong, and then you have to draw a consequence. And as far as I'm concerned, given the situation, it can go two ways: the same amount for fewer people or all people a slightly lower amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u544	Excuse me, you have no further questions. We've been a little generous in time. And, Mrs Ploumen, you've also run out of questions. If you are very brief and concise, I will give you a very brief opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u545	It is very short and concise: just pay out €500 to the healthcare staff in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u546	Yes, but I do have a budget set by the House of Representatives, with 720 million in it. By the way, for those two years it is 3 billion. That is a budget that has been established by the House of Representatives, and I have to stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u547	I find the Minister's argument really shameful. One: "The cabinet is missionary on corona." Those are not my words, but those are the words of the Prime Minister. Two: all care workers have worked very hard. That confirms the Minister, because she thinks they should all get a bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u548	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u549	Three: if you ask this Chamber, "do I get room from this Chamber to make sure that all healthcare workers can claim that bonus?', It must be crazy if it is not to be voted for. And those who vote against should look themselves in the mirror tonight. So once again to the Minister, don't do this. The billions are flying out the door, indeed, for KLM, for bossy foundations that are going to do access tests. Why not just for those care workers? They deserve it. Without them, we are completely lost with this cabinet without any strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u550	Let me answer Mrs Ploumen's question. Yes, the cabinet is missionary on corona. But it was even in missionary status on December 8, 2020. At that time, I wrote to the Chamber: in view of the significant overrun in 2020, I would like to express my appreciation for 2021 in such a way that it fits within the 720 million reserved. And that, in conjunction with the budget adopted, is a missionary mission, and I want to stick to that. I believe that the options put forward here are right on all sides of this issue. And I would certainly like to get to work on this arrangement. A number of other questions. Mrs. Den Haan asked about the absenteeism in the care, and about the match there is with the people who are available. Additional hands for care currently have many staff available, including qualified doctors and nurses: there are some 129 doctors, some 249 HBO nurses, 276 MBO nurses and 13 nursing specialists. And it would also be very nice if care organisations called on them. But we also see, and this is, of course, a fact of this topicality, that care organisations sometimes run into the limits of their own absorption capacity when it comes to the deployment of temporary extra people. But we're really doing everything we can to put as many people temporarily; for example, the 1,400 people who are also ready to help with vaccination have been actively brought to the attention of the GGDs. Then Mrs Van der Plas asked if it would be possible to start youth competitions in the region next Saturday. I recognize this wish; I hear it more often and I understand the need behind it very well. At the moment, competitions against other clubs and competitions are not allowed simply because they contribute to more social contacts and travel movements. And that has to do with the speech of the Prime Minister and my colleague, Mr De Jonge, about the lack of epidemiological space to allow this relaxation at the moment. But youth up to 26 years old can play games at their own club. And of course, we all want this to change as soon as possible. Then Mrs Van Esch, who asked about the trade in live animals on markets. And that the World Health Organization has advised us to stop this trade; are we prepared to follow that advice? Given the origin of the corona virus outbreak, I understand the concerns that the WHO has about this, and also the advice they have. It is a call that we take very seriously and also support in substance. We are going to talk to the World Health Organisation about their call, how they want to give them their hands and feet and how they want to develop them further in practice. I do this in collaboration with the Ministry of LNV. She specifically asked about the annual meeting and the motion that was adopted last year. Mrs Van Esch referred to this. At that time, COOVID-19 did not succeed, but I will try to put this on the agenda of the World Health Organisation, although I assume that they will do so themselves. Then there are Mrs van Esch's questions about the slaughterhouses and the letter of fire that has been sent about them. I know that burn note. The Minister for Agriculture informed me about this too. At the end of last week, KDS management informed NVWA that there are concerns about the corona safety of KDS employees in the slaughterhouses. The NVWA is in daily conversation with the management of KDS and they continue to work together, each on their own responsibility, to keep the working conditions safe. In the previous debate, we have already referred to the division of roles, so I will not do so extensively now, also in view of the time. In any case, in companies that test their employees themselves, the doctor concerned has a duty to report the infection to the GGD. If there are multiple infections at a company, this is linked by the source and contact research. Then the GGD or the Inspection SZW can take action. If the NVWA has the impression that there are many infections, she also reports this to the GGD. This ensures an effective approach as the number of corona cases increases significantly. We have already referred in the letter to the escalation ladder of the NVWA. It has been deployed five times since December 2020 and has resulted in one stoppage. In cases where this was not done, the conditions for safe operation were restored in good time. I said something last time that turned out to be wrong. I had indicated that the SZW inspection had carried out an inspection at Vion Boxtel's location on March 2nd. I understood that during that debate. But after the debate, the SZW inspection informed me that it had not carried out that inspection, but that on 8 March there was contact with the Boxtel branch following a notification, which, moreover, did not lead to closure. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of completeness, I'd like to mention that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u551	Thank you. That is noted, among other things in the Acts. Mrs Van Esch has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u552	First of all, I'm going to deal briefly with the wildlife trade. Thank you very much for the Minister's willingness to take a look at that. I'd like to know what kind of time limit it's gonna be. I know, for example, that it has already been worked on in the United States and that there is a legislative proposal. In Canada, they're working on this. I would therefore like to make the urgent appeal that this should not be left behind for very long. It is an urgent appeal from the World Health Organisation. So I also like having a time limit to come back to it here. I would therefore like to know whether this information can still be given. Then I can look at it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u553	I'll have to check it out. Can I do that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u554	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u555	I feel that I should stand here when it comes to the situation in slaughterhouses. I notice that there is some sort of paper reality. With that paper reality it seems as if the rules are there, but that they are simply not being complied with. Those letters confirm it again. It is said that, unfortunately, the role of the NVWA is not adequate in this respect. They do not intervene in existing situations. That's gonna be put here. These letters make an urgent appeal to the ministries to intervene. You said three weeks ago that you think these signals should be taken seriously. I can repeat your words now, but I believe you still have them. Then it cannot be that there are two letters with the very explicit call for intervention, and that we still do not intervene. It's not gonna happen. It is said that we are being deceived. Reports are being made. The moment we start inspecting, of course, everyone wears a mouth cap. And then they're gone and then they go, go, off with the mouth cap. So the signals are coming in, but we're not gonna intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u556	Also building on my knowledge as a former portfolio holder of the Inspection SZW: an inspection has an independent responsibility. As a ruler, you cannot say: go there and do an inspection, or do it this way. What does happen is that those signals are being heard and that they are being acted on. The letter of fire that was sent, I think it's a strong signal. I'm assuming that's what they're looking at. By the way, if a works council or a trade union makes a report, the Inspection SZW should look into that. What I can do in connection with this debate is to contact and ask what happened. But I maintain what I said to Mrs Van Esch last time: if it is unsafe, then action must be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u557	I'm sticking with it. Then why hasn't there been any intervention? We're literally getting the numbers put in letters. We're getting the situations ahead of us. It is said that people are being fooled. There are still infections taking place. It says: there is a major risk of contamination in other slaughterhouses, because KDS employees have to approve throughout the Netherlands. The risks are literally given to us in several letters, but we do not continue to intervene. Next week we are going to talk about the motion adopted by GroenLinks and Party for the Animals to close companies, where there are more than three infections. Next week's bill is coming up. I think there are companies here where there are many more infections and we are still not talking about temporary closure. How is this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u558	I indicated that the escalation ladder has been deployed five times since December 2020 and has once resulted in closure. So it's not like nothing happened. In other cases, it is ensured that the conditions for safe operation have been restored. Let me put it this way, as Mrs Van Esch points out, I take it very seriously. She knows that, too. One stop, so in 20% of the cases you're gonna watch the company shut down, I think it's a hell of a lot. I am certainly prepared to pass on what she says today to the relevant inspections and to ask what has been done about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u559	Rounding up. These letters are there for a reason. They are really there to indicate that the situation there cannot continue in this way. The paper reality is different from the reality that is taking place there. I believe it when you say you're taking the signals seriously, but it needs action now. It cannot be that we give the employees these risks of corona contamination and let them work throughout the country. It really can't be, and it really has to be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u560	Thank you. You've made your call clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u561	I think we will see each other again next week and I hope to know more about what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u562	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. The final question is for Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u563	I would like to support my colleague Van Esch. This is the second time there's been a major outbreak. We do have fire letters coming in. The working conditions of the people who work there are very bad. It's been that way for a long time. It has also been told a number of times, especially by the Party for Animals. I would like to ask the Minister what exactly she can do. Can it give us a commitment that, for example, she will be talking to the mayor to ensure that working conditions are improved in the short term, but also the safety of the people who work in that company? Of course, this applies to more slaughterhouses. I would like to see how she reacts to this and when she can inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u564	The method I was talking about, which is good to take it up in the next corona letter, is the result of a debate we held last year with the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of the United States of America and the Secretary of State of the United States of America. That last one was me at the time. That was precisely because different kinds of supervision come together at a slaughterhouse. This resulted in a method whereby the GGD, the NVWA, the Inspection SZW and the security regions cooperate with each other. So it would be my suggestion that I use that method... There is also a new Chamber, and perhaps it is good for the people who have not yet experienced this debate, unlike you, to include that information. I would like to say to Mrs Van Esch that I will see what follow-up has been given to the reports as indicated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u565	That could be included in the next corona letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u566	I repeat it to the VWS minister: if it were next week, it might be too soon. I'm gonna do my best to make it, but otherwise it's gonna be after.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u567	In any case, Mrs Van Esch and Mrs Westerveld's appeal will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u568	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u569	Then I would like to thank the Minister, if there is not another interruption by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u570	Yeah, sorry, Chairman. I still don't think she's ready, but okay. I have a question about the ic-capacity. I find it incredible that a year after the crisis reached its low point, it still hasn't managed to scale up to those 1,700 ic-spots. I think at last year's peak at this time we had about the number we have now. You've had a year to recruit staff. How many times have I asked to attract staff, not only for the care reserve but also for the ICUs, and to pay them better? It just didn't work out. It's been a year. Minister De Jonge said exactly a year ago in May: "That reservoir of deferred care needs to be emptied. That is why we need to structurally move towards a capacity of 1,700 ic-beds to be scaled." That's what the minister said a year ago. We've been a year and again we haven't managed to get those 1,700 beds. What have you been doing for the past year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u571	Before the corona epidemic, our regular ic-capacity was around 1,150 beds max. Often it was under 1,000 and that is normally sufficient. By the way, whatever system, whatever care system you have, we all run into borders in a corona epidemic. From the summer the number of beds is scaled up to 1,350 with the possibility to switch to 1,700. That's what we agreed with the health care people. By the way, we have given them an important voice by asking: how could you organise this? So there is also a bit of clinical capacity behind that. The problem isn't the beds or the stuff. The problem is the people. Training an ic nurse takes about 18 months. At this time, of course, we have not been able to achieve this. What's the problem with this scaling up? Even now you can see that. The scaling-up to 1,550 we're standing for now is possible. I also spoke to the President of the LNAZ about this this afternoon. It's at the expense of something else, let alone scaling you to 1,700. That means immediately scaling down operating rooms. There are hospitals where ic-capacity is now being set up, but there are operating rooms leaving at the same time. It means you're actually putting some of the care you need to deliver on your credit card within six weeks. Sec the number of 1,700 doesn't say that much. Mr Wilders has tabled motions on this subject, but what we have learned from this crisis is that you must have some flexibility. I liked to get on with it and I like to continue with it, because I think it is a very important subject to put in the climbers. But during this stage of the corona crisis, where it is all hands on deck... I was at the hospital in Hoorn last week and surgery rooms are being converted into ICUs! It is now just all hands on deck, but after that we will indeed have to achieve that flexibility in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u572	Mr. Wilders, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u573	Finishing? I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u574	Well, you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u575	I won't take too long, Mr. Chairman. You should have just taken care of it. Then don't say "I've been there and I'm gonna do this." You should have taken care of it! I asked you and your colleagues last year to take care of it. I have tabled dozens of motions asking to invest in the staff. And you didn't! So what's the result? You can solve the crisis in two ways. You can do this first of all by voluntarily vaccinating as many people as possible as soon as possible. Well, that hasn't exactly been a success in the Netherlands and certainly in the beginning. Or you can make sure you increase the ic capacity in case of an emergency. Of course, you'd like to do both. If you don't do that and you haven't done both well, not only you, but also your cabinet, you'll make sure we're still locked. But you also make sure that that regular care is now scaled down again. People who need cancer surgery or open heart surgery and people who are waiting for a kidney transplant are now being sent home again. And you have said: I do not want that to happen anymore. You yell it every time and you say every time 'I agree with Mr Wilders, because this is so important', but you didn't do it. You should have just arranged that in one year you had at least trained a number of people for that and had furnished a few hundred more ic-spots. Why didn't you? Why do you keep saying "it's important" and talking to me, but don't do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u576	It's done. Last summer hundreds of beds were added, both on ic and clinical beds, with staff. We have also scaled up to 1,550, which is truly unprecedented for Dutch concepts. But it's not enough, because the wave is too high and the wave takes too long. So it's not enough, and with a motion, I won't open a can of nurses. Because it takes me a year and a half to train people. We're gonna have to do it smarter in the future, and now we're gonna have to do it with the people we have. I'm grateful to the people in all those hospitals for coming out of surgery, for turning in their free hours. And yes, I agree with Mr Wilders that we should do better for the future, but after the first wave we asked health care what we could do and they said: scale up and people there. We did, but it's not enough. That is not the fault of the people in the care, it is because of this crisis. I would also like to mention what was already discussed earlier this evening: this is the legitimacy why we are asking the Netherlands "please stick to it". The intensivist I spoke to last Tuesday said, "I'm in a world here in the hospital and the people outside have no idea what's going on here." Dertigers are over there. Pregnant women lie there. Younger and younger people. This is a pandemic of such an unprecedented magnitude, no motion against it. We'll all have to do that, and we'll have to learn the lessons from it. I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u577	But you didn't do it! You didn't do it! You come with all of them, from "I've seen them and those." It's always the same debate trick. "I was with them" and "I spoke to them" and "it's so bad and we have to do this." But you're not doing it! You do say that you are grateful to the people in the care, but the question is whether they are grateful. Your party has made sure in recent years that we only have fewer ic-spots. Your party has made sure that in recent years we have fired employees on the ICU. We've had less thanks to the VVD, so don't put on those big pants: you've cut them off. And if I ask you to do something about it last year, you won't do it. Twice wrong. Once you cut them off and the second time you didn't bring them in. We could have asked you to do that. We didn't ask last week, we asked last year, but you left it out, you let it go, you didn't do it. You should take a good look in the mirror, because that's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u578	In the past three-quarters of a year after the first wave, we have taken stock of what we need to do. We have asked the health services, we have had debates about it here in the Chamber. We have said: we have to scale up the ic capacity, with people. We need to scale up the clinical capacity with humans. That's what happened last summer. We have asked the people in health care: how could you best do that? And they've gone to work. It's done. Is it enough, given the state of the pandemic? No, it's not enough, but what's agreed is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u579	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the directors for the first term. We have reached the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u580	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for all the answers. The Prime Minister was clear about the support for entrepreneurs to get through the crisis, but also later, when we have left behind the worst of the crisis, in order to recover. We look forward to the cabinet's proposal. Then about the vaccinations. Many questions, long answers, but much is also clarified, that has to be said. Two more points on behalf of my group. First of all, an important commitment to Mrs Westerveld to proceed with Mrs Kröger's motion on giving priority to risk groups aged between 18 and 60 years. But one more question about that. It is, in the end, a large group again and I can imagine that, in order to make it manageable and manageable, we will have to bring it back to smaller groups. Does the Minister also do this in consultation with medical specialists, so that we can see which groups of patients with conditions can be targeted? I think of patients with lung diseases such as CF, cystic fibrosis. Then I come to my second point. I asked for a scenario for the unexpected case that there is a setback with Janssen. I think the Minister is too reluctant in that regard. From the slow start of vaccination at the beginning of this year we have actually learned how important it is to have scenarios ready. I would therefore ask the Minister to start working on a scenario now in case it is disappointing, of course in the hope that we will never need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u581	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66 for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u582	Mr President, I shall first table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Health Council recommended that everyone under 60 years of age should not inoculate with the AstraZeneca vaccine, but that for most people within this group the benefits of this vaccine outweigh the disadvantages;]] [[Whereas such advice is likely to apply in the future to other vaccines and that, when properly informed, people may choose to still want to be vaccinated with these vaccines;]] [[Whereas vaccination planning may include a time when these vaccines are available but are no longer administered according to the vaccination strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to give people the freedom to choose these vaccines with the right information in the case of vaccines which are no longer used within the vaccination strategy but are available, so that they have the option to be vaccinated earlier or to wait for the vaccine intended for them within the strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Paternotte, Westerveld, Segers, Dassen, Van Esch, Den Haan, Stoffer, Pouw-Verweij, Van der Plas, Kuzu, Van Haga, Ploumen and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u583	Of course, this includes the legal backup for the caregivers who administer this shot, so that they also have to do so. That is also why this calls for a policy change. I hope the Minister will be able to promise this. I fully agree with what Mrs Hermans said about Janssen and the fact that we will really have to get that one-prick strategy behind us next week, especially if there is a disappointing message from Janssen next week. I would like to ask the Minister if at that time he has prepared the manoeuvrability which would allow us to apply the advice of the Health Council next week and also to discuss it further. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u584	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u585	Thank you, Mr President. It could really piss me off. The vaccination policy is a mess. The ic-building is a mess. Meanwhile, the Netherlands is losing its freedom. And we're all gonna have to take it. Thanks, however, to the Minister of VWS for his commitment to the GGD in beautiful Limburg. I've got three more motions. They're all about freedom and reopening. I'll start with the terraces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the terraces are reopened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u586	Then another motion. This one's about King's Day. Earlier, a motion from me was passed to allow King's Day to continue. I mean, of course, the outdoor activities. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the Government, following the Wilders motion adopted (25295, No. 1001) to communicate widely that the outdoor activities will continue on King's Day 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u587	I'm just getting through it in time. Finally, one more motion on my favourite amusement park, the Efteling. This is also Mr Van Haga's favourite amusement park, given the signature. We'd like it to open soon. You can do that according to all the tests and rules. That's what we should do. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the one and a half meter measure in amusement parks is difficult to implement;]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the Government to reopen the Efteling in accordance with the guidelines established by the park itself,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u588	Those guidelines of the park itself are therefore that you have to keep your distance, but that you can replace that distance inside with a mouth cap. That's what they say. That worked, too. That's also apparent from all the field tests and I know what's been going on. So I'd say do that. You make people, including Mr Van Haga and especially myself, very happy about that. Maybe we can go on the Dream Flight again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u589	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that I have a motion on the health bonus that healthcare providers have been promised. The cabinet has to keep that promise. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the missionary cabinet wants to reduce the €500 health bonus or to pay a lower amount to healthcare providers;]] [[points out that the pressure on carers is enormous and that they are now more than ever worthy of this expression of appreciation;]] [[calls on the government to maintain the level of the health bonus at €500 per person and to use additional financial resources if it appears that the intended budget for the bonus is exceeded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Westerveld, Mr Wilders, Mr Kuzu, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Dassen, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u591	Then I have another motion. It's about problems in the border region. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on arrival in Germany on 6 April, people must show a negative COOVID-19 test result and comply with an obligation to register;]] [[noting that this causes problems for many Dutch people, such as those who go to school across the border, work or have family or care for them;]] [[noting that it is becoming a cost for many Dutch to have to obtain a negative test result from a commercial provider each time;]] [[invites the Government to enter into consultations with Germany as soon as possible and to reach a solution for these Dutch, and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u592	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the commitment that the GGD in North Limburg can continue to vaccinate vulnerable people with vaccines that remain at the end of the day. I call once again on the Prime Minister to stop giving false hope about easing and to base himself on data and data that are objectivable. Mr. Chairman. Together with Mr Van der Plas, I also had a motion to find a solution for the border workers with Germany. I would suggest to Mrs van der Plas and Mrs Marijnissen that we take a look together to see if we can merge these two motions. Then I'll hold on to mine, in the confidence that all of that will be collegially okay. I can tell by Mrs Marijnissen. Mr President, I have one other motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in many general practitioners' practices, 25% to 50% of the 60-plussers no longer want AstraZeneca vaccine;]] [[Whereas the risks of a serious course of corona for many people under 60 years of age, including those with vulnerable health, are greater than the risks of serious adverse reactions, and a first shot already protects them;]] [[Whereas vaccination contributes not only to the protection of individuals but also to the protection of society as a whole;]] [[calls on the Government to allow vulnerable people under 60 years of age to benefit from vaccination with AstraZeneca vaccines outside the vaccination strategy or left at the end of the day, on the advice of their GP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Esch, Mr Westerveld and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u594	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I sincerely welcome the promise that the Minister will address the call made by my colleague Kröger on 24 March to give priority to people with an increased medical risk in vaccination policy. We are also very curious about the results that are to come. I would also like to tell the Ministers that we have concerns about the disabled living at home. A group of them would get AstraZeneca. Today I received an e-mail from a father who works in health care and who has a disabled son living at home who gets help again. None of the people who cross the floor with them have been vaccinated, while this son has an increased medical risk. It was actually their turn at the beginning of April. They canceled, and now they have to wait a few months. I see the minister looking desperate and I'll ask this gentleman if I can forward the mail, but this is the group of people we're talking about. I also see in my timeline on Twitter that several people recognize themselves in stories like this, so that shows how important it is to really pay attention to this group, which doesn't sometimes feel forgotten for nothing. Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion. It's about a waiting list. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch vaccination centres do not have reserve lists and that there is no national waiting list for vaccination;]] [[Whereas more than 1 million people in the Netherlands with an increased medical risk are waiting for vaccination;]] [[Whereas many countries, including Belgium, the United Kingdom and the United States, have a vaccination waiting list;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a national vaccination waiting list, allowing vaccineing parties to easily summon citizens and thus prevent spilling;]] [[calls on the government to give priority to those in the Netherlands with an increased medical risk on the waiting list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Forum for Democracy rejects a test society because it is traumatising for children and increasing costs for entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet, supported by a majority of the House of Representatives, is committed to a test society;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt children up to 18 years of age from this test society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u597	Next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Forum for Democracy rejects a test society because it is traumatising for children and increasing costs for entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet, supported by a majority of the House of Representatives, is committed to a test society;]] [[calls on the Government to bear and provide free testing costs when establishing a test society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u598	You're welcome. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many entrepreneurs cannot benefit from the Tozo allowance;]] [[calls on the government to raise the Tozo to the legal minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u599	Next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is hardly any contamination in the outdoor air;]] [[calls on the Government to allow all outdoor activities immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga, Wilders and Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u600	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the hospitality sector is now closed for almost six months and the hospitality sector has sounded the alarm clock;]] [[Whereas the reopening of the terraces could save many catering operators;]] [[Whereas the risk of contamination is reduced when the terraces are reopened;]] [[requests the government to open the terraces immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga, Wilders and Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u601	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u602	Otherwise there will be such a strange silence these days when a motion has been tabled. But I don't know if this is it at all, I'm just saying honestly. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u603	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the slaughterhouses first. Thank you very much, in any case, for the commitment to return to what has been and is to be done with this urgent appeal. Is it also possible to indicate how many infections there are at that time and how many reports have been made, so to include the actual information in that letter? I would like to return, of course, to a ban on trade in wild animals through animal fairs and animal markets in the Netherlands. In any case, thanks to the Minister for taking a serious look at that appeal from the WTO. It would come back to it in a second period when it could come back to it. That is in itself very nice, and I would like to thank her for that, but I would nevertheless like to put forward a motion to strengthen that request of ours. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wild and exotic animals are traded in the Netherlands at animal fairs and animal markets;]] [[noting that there is a risk of transmission of infectious diseases from animals to humans, according to virologists, wherever animals are traded (wild and exotic),]] [[noting that the World Health Organisation is once again strongly calling on countries to suspend wildlife markets;]] [[calls on the Government to stop allowing the exhibition and trade of animals through animal fairs and animal markets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u604	No. "Thank you" doesn't have to be said in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u605	I shall then give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union, who will probably also table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u606	Thank you, Mr President. I have one comment and two motions for resolutions. First of all, thank you for the answers given. I have a comment to make to the Minister for Medical Care. I share her preference for option two when it comes to the health bonus. I would like it if the income limit of one-and-a-half times would be applied there, as was the case in the first option. That means that the ICU nurses and the paramedics are included. An extra euro is more important for people with a slightly lower income. Hence my preference, which I like to give her. Then two motions, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on the self-tests. That's also about people with a narrow scholarship. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the long term, the opening up of society is likely to increase the number of people and to increase the safety of self-tests;]] [[Whereas paying for a test for people with a narrow scholarship is a threshold to participate in society;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what is necessary to make free self-tests available to social minima, and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u607	And the second motion concerns an interrupting debate I had with the VWS Minister about casinos, about the size of the pilots. I have some thoughts on that, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to start the day after tomorrow with quick test pilots with casinos and gaming halls, in which more than 11,000 people will visit 27 different casinos or gaming halls in the coming days;]] [[Whereas, according to the OMT, the large scale of the pilots gives the false impression that relaxation is possible and the size of the pilots is not necessary to collect relevant test results;]] [[calls on the government to rethink and at least shape the rapid test pilots with casinos and gaming halls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u608	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's tired of this virus. That was also reflected in today's debate. The problem is that a virus doesn't care. I told you in my first term, thousands of people get sick every day. Some of them will end up in hospital or in ICU, and some of them will stay ill for a long time. We cannot hide behind arguments such as: declining support. Portrait fights you. I would suggest that the outgoing cabinet should again express the sense of urgency more actively. Mrs Simons said in her contribution that the cabinet has chosen a strategy of controlled contagion. I think she's right. The difficult thing about the situation now, more than a year later, is that inadequate support, or diminished confidence of people in policy, can be used as an excuse to allow this situation of many infections, too many long-term sick and too many deaths to be overwhelmed. We may not have that much, and yet there are many new infections today, namely around 7,000. Vaccinate must be faster and as fast as possible. And so Volt supports, among other things, the motion that has been tabled to ensure that people can be vaccinated with AstraZeneca if they want to. I really want to ask the cabinet to look at their own communication. Make sure that people are reached, that the urgency is felt again. And also make sure that we use those test experiments where they are needed right now: at primary schools, MBOs, HBOs and universities. I'm sure the casinos will be able to wait a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u609	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers for their answers. I particularly thank the Prime Minister, because I was actually planning to table a motion on the impact management team. But in our enlightening little debate on the interrupting microphone, the Prime Minister explained to me that the Chamber already has all the means to create exactly the situation that our group has in mind. Well, thank you for that; I'd like to be advised by him, because he's been around here a little longer than I have. So I've had a little talk with Mr Segers. After all, it was his motion that was passed. My group is going to work to ensure that, in addition to the technical briefing of the OMT, we will also receive such a technical briefing from an economic and social point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u611	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u612	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate, including on the access tests. I have one more comment to make. "An access test will never be required, in any situation." That is what Minister De Jonge said in response to a question from Mr Van Haga. I would like to highlight that, because the cabinet, in the draft bill coming to the Chamber tomorrow, wants to set up a mandatory access test for, for example, cafes and restaurants. So I would like to hear another brief confirmation: that access test will not be, will never be required. The rest of the debate on that law is going to take place sometime in the next few weeks. Mr. Chairman. I've got two more motions. I've had a little bit of doubt about the first one. It's about the affiliates. I have quite a lot of confidence in the Prime Minister's commitment that he really has an eye for those companies and for those 300,000 jobs. But on the other hand, I can also imagine that he cannot remember all that. So I'm not the worst and I thought, you know, I'm just gonna write it down. That motion is as follows. I would like to leave out all the considerations contained in my motion for a moment, because I do not manage to read them all in time. I shall table the motion later modified, with all the considerations in it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase financial support for branch companies as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u613	Then I have a second motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of visitors to wedding and funeral ceremonies has been limited for months;]] [[Whereas, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, increasing the maximum number of visitors to funerals and weddings contributes to general well-being;]] [[Whereas the previous Roadmap did not cover maximum number of funerals;]] [[calls on the government to give greater priority in the open plan to increasing visitor numbers in mourning and wedding ceremonies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer, Mr Kuzu and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u614	Mr. Chairman. Due to the hassle with the vaccine of AstraZeneca in recent times and also with Janssen's, the support for taking the vaccine has decreased. Freedom of choice will help. This morning, during the technical briefing, we understood that this cannot be done immediately. So if the Minister is about to interpret the motion: it is about freedom of choice when it is possible, I say it explicitly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vaccines are offered from different manufacturers;]] [[noting that four out of ten over 60 people do not like the AstraZeneca vaccine;]] [[noting that Denmark has now completely discontinued the AstraZeneca vaccine and suspended the administration of the Janssen vaccine;]] [[Whereas the willingness to vaccinate can be increased when citizens are free to choose which vaccine they are given;]] [[calls on the government to give citizens freedom of choice as to which vaccine they want to be administered when possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u615	And the final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are universities, such as Radboud University, that want to exclude students from campus in the coming academic year based on vaccination or test status;]] [[Whereas this will lead to the exclusion of students for physical education;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no educational institution may refuse students or pupils on the basis of vaccination or test status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u616	And next time, I'll make up for those ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u617	Look, that's a deal. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to all the directors for answering the questions. I would like to say the following to Mrs Van Ark in particular. The labour market in care is a huge problem. You know that better than anyone. It was before the corona pandemic. On this, absenteeism rates rise to about 15%. That's really huge. I understand from a lot of healthcare professionals that they want even more than a health bonus to reduce the workload. Despite your clear answer, I would like to know whether it is possible to investigate how this match between supply and demand can be made better, so that we can make the most of all those who want to put their hands together. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to current corona rules a household may only receive one visitor a day;]] [[Whereas this also applies to elderly people living at home who are largely already vaccinated, while many of them have been in social isolation for more than a year due to all corona measures;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the visitor scheme for elderly people living at home who have already been vaccinated to two visitors per day or contact one other household per day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u619	Then the second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that couples who are 75 years of age or older and fall into a different age group are often given the opportunity to be vaccinated together;]] [[Whereas this would also be an outcome for older people below 75 years of age and would improve efficiency;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the coulance regime so that all couples over 65 years of age can be vaccinated together,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Stoffer and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u620	Thank you, Mr President. Is she really gonna file her? Yeah, I'm really gonna file her. Just to be clear, there are app groups in which you can only send as an administrator. There are no LOL emotions, memes, or all thumbs up. That's what this is about. By the way, who's gonna be the manager, we can still dim it. I'll be on our first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only invasive (antigen) corona rapid tests are currently granted a temporary exemption;]] [[Whereas these tests are considered to be burdensome by many citizens;]] [[Whereas tests are also available which are not considered to be burdensome by citizens, such as odour tests;]] [[Whereas these so-called non-invasive tests are 3 times cheaper than the cheapest approved self-test and are even 50 times cheaper than, for example, PCR tests;]] [[Calls on the Government to allow exemption under Article 8 of the Medical Devices Act (Wmh) for non-antigen rapid testing;]] [[and continues to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u621	We have examined the Rules of Procedure and we did not see anywhere that this was compulsory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u622	That's right. There are a lot of things not in the Rules of Procedure. Think of the maiden speech, the speaking time. Those are the so-called customs. I hope you can get a little bit of that, because otherwise we will get a lot of diversity in the motions, and it's all a bit, for the messengers and everyone else, to manage all of that in the right direction. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u623	Can I at least say it one more time on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u624	If you change the motion after that. If we can agree to that, you can file the motion. If you change the motion afterwards, we are pleased. And then we make a suggestion to the Working Method Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u625	We're going to talk about it. The motion: append before leaking. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that MPs are dependent on leaking to the press to become aware of the decisions and intentions regarding corona in the so-called Catshuis consultation;]] [[Whereas, as representatives of the people, we are considered to be the first to be aware of cabinet decisions and proposals;]] [[whereas the cabinet is full of transparency and new leadership;]] [[calls on the cabinet to stop leaking, but first to inform all MPs through the modern forms of communication, such as WhatsApp or something similar, of cabinet decisions and intentions around corona before making statements to the press,]] [[and continues to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u626	The rulers are ready to give their appreciation of all motions. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u627	Mr President, thank you. There was one more question from Mrs Simons. She is not here now, but I shall reply briefly for the Acts. It was about financial support for sex workers. Let me just say that I understand that question. It's also a vulnerable group. They can't get to work either. There is, of course, the danger of illegality. That is why, through the Acts, I would also like to draw attention to the aid measures for which they are eligible to compensate for income losses. That could be the Tozo, in case there'szzp'erschap. In the case of employment contracts, the NOW can of course be used. And in other cases, for example, when working on the basis of a so-called opting-in scheme, there is the possibility of applying for assistance if they meet the conditions for general assistance. In addition, sex workers may claim the TONK. This in turn depends on the personal situation and the effect that is given locally to the TONK. Municipalities check the applications and can provide clarity on this. That's an answer to a question from Mrs Simons, she's back! It's about the sex workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u628	The answer sounds very familiar to me. These are the rules. They can also be found online. But the practice is different. Somehow we have to get to a situation where all these rules, which sound very beautiful on paper, actually work, including for sex workers. I am nevertheless looking for an explanation of how this group itself says that they are not eligible for the Tozo, and that they have to meet so many obligations for that opt-in. It doesn't work. That is a paper problem, but in practice it means that there are people who are going bankrupt, have to leave their homes. There are even people here and there who don't like it so much that they take their own life. That the rules are invented, I'm very happy with that, but somehow they don't work in practice. We have to find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u629	May I ask Mrs Simons to pass those signals on to me as well? I think I'll pass it on to Wouter Koolmees to look at that, but maybe those signals can be sent through me, through General Affairs. Step 2 of the open plan provides that they will be able to get back to work; of course, only when step 2 is on the agenda, but that is quite early in the open plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u630	I will certainly comply with that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u631	I'd love to. I appreciate that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The Wilders c.s. motion. in piece No. 1107 is not recommended, with reference to the debate. The Wilders c.s. motion. in piece No. 1108: advise against, because activities can only be within the applicable rules. The Wilders/Van Haga motion in part No. 1109: dissuade. That is a loosening that unfortunately cannot be done now. The Van Haga motion in part No. 1116: Dissuade. The level of the Tozo is consistent with the treatment of other people who, as a result of the corona crisis, have to rely on the regular Participation Act. We continue to support self-employed people in need, but this motion is not recommended. The Van Haga c.s. motion. in piece No. 1117: Dissuade, for that is a relaxation. The Van Haga c.s. motion. in piece No. 1118: idem, with reference to the debate, I must say. At the Stoffer/Van Haga motion in part No. 1122 I would like to ask you to keep these. We've discussed this extensively here. EZK now works intensively with industry organisations and entrepreneurs of the large retail business. A delegation from the large retail sector presented the proposal, as I said. The desirability and feasibility are now being considered. I don't really want to anticipate that. It is foreseen that in May the letter will be sent by the Ministers for Finance, Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs and Social Affairs on the support package. This issue will also be discussed in greater detail. My question would be to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u632	Is that somewhere in the middle of May?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u633	Yeah, looks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u634	Then we'll hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u635	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u636	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u637	Then the motion-stoffer c.s. in piece No. 1123. As far as funeral ceremonies are concerned, there is an extension of 50 to 100, if all can be done. This motion again deals with enlargements which cannot yet be foreseen, so I regret to say that I do not recommend this motion. The Den Haan motion in part No. 1127 I must also advise against. Extending the visit advice is the next step in the roadmap, so step 1. Unfortunately, that is not yet possible. The Van der Plas motion in part No. I would also advise against 1130. Our intention is to inform the Lower House as soon as possible after decision-making in the Cabinet. That's what we're trying to do on Tuesday. This is often not possible before the press conference, but at least it will happen on the same evening a few hours after the press conference. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u638	Thank you. There's a little change. I call the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a number of questions. D66 asks to ensure that, if Janssen has to be deployed differently, we prepare ourselves for all possible scenarios. Of course. The same applies to Mrs Hermans' question of the VVD. She asked for the development of scenarios in case the possibilities of Janssen were disappointing. Of course. Yeah, we do. Furthermore, the VVD asks for further selection of the medical indications, namely the flu group. It's not the medical specialist who does that, it's the GP. By the way, this is a fairly broad group, of 1 million, which is now classified by the Health Council. So we have to deal with the million after the 60-plussers and the people at high medical risk. The people with an actual high risk between 70 and 80 years have already been selected in more detail, and that is much less. The e-mail Mrs Westerveld referred to, I'd like to receive. She's not in the room right now. Oh, yes, I do. Excuse me. I have to look so far to the left! How much left did GroenLinks turn out to be? Unbelievable! I'd like to receive that e-mail. Then I'll go after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u640	Mr Paternotte wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u641	Thank you for the scenario commitment given to Mrs Hermans' question which I had joined. In my view, the Minister indicated that he was going to chew further on the Health Council's consideration of the one-prick strategy. If Janssen is indeed disappointing, we may need that one-prick strategy a little more. I think that is where Mrs Hermans' question came from and that is where I come from. Is that a scenario that you do have ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u642	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u643	Yeah, 'cause we're gonna go through with that. I also told you that 1.4 million appointments would have to be cancelled and how annoying that would be for those people. So I have quite a lot of comments to make. But, yeah, I'm gonna keep doing that. I haven't definitely slammed the door for that yet. Indeed, at the moment that Janssen is really disappointing this option would become less uninteresting again. Let me put it this way. Then there's the motions. The judgment on the Paternotte c.s. motion in piece No. I leave it to the Chamber, but I have two comments to make. One remark is that I am working out this scenario. I will develop several scenarios anyway in case vaccines can no longer be applied within the vaccination strategy, but are still available. So that's what it says in the operative part. I would like to make a second comment. We cannot really do that until we have prepared the vaccines to the people who need them most, namely 60-plussers. So it takes a while before we could get into this scenario. I'll get back to the Chamber on that. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion-Ploumen c.s. in piece No. 1112. I am going to discourage this motion by referring to everything I said about it in the first term. Otherwise, we're all gonna do it again. Then there is the Westerveld/Ploumen motion in part No. 1113. I'm gonna dissuade them, too. Indeed, there is a surplus directive for the general practitioner and a surplus directive for the GGD. I'm not going to add one more thing to that, because that makes it all very complex, and I'm sure that doesn't work any faster in the execution. Then there is the Kuzu/Stoffer motion in part No. 1124. That's a hell of a jump.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u644	The motion in part No. 1124, you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u645	Yes. No, I don't have to do that at all; I have to do it in the right order. The Marijnissen/Segers motion in part No. 1111 for example, the motion of the SP across the border with Germany. I have to apologize to Mr Dassen, because I did not answer his question on the same point in the first period. I am now doing so through Mrs Marijnissen's motion. I would like to leave this to the Chamber, because I know that Mr Knops is doing the same. He's already engaged in that conversation. I just don't know exactly what the latest state of affairs is. I would have liked to have said that to Mr Dassen. So I'm going to leave the verdict to the Chamber. I cannot promise how it will be resolved, because Germany simply sees us as a high-risk country and they are right. But for border workers that is incredibly impractical, so it has to be solved, and Knops is working on it. So I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber, and either he or I'll get back to you on that. Then the motion to part No. 1114: To exempt children up to the age of 18 from the test society. Well, there's not gonna be a test society. And exempt children until 18... Well, they only have bad luck of their own, because then, for example, they can't go in on access tests. And by the way, in education, it also helps them to be safer in school banks. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 1115 calls on the government to bear the costs of testing and to provide them free of charge when establishing a test society, which we are not going to do. We're gonna pay the costs. And yet this needs to be in a little more precision. So I'm going to ask Mr Van Haga to hold this motion. If it pleases your chairman and pleases the chairman of the permanent Committee on Health, Mrs Agema, we are going to deal with the legislative proposal next week, and that legislative proposal will deal fully with this issue. So let's do that before this motion is put to the vote. That would be my suggestion, but it's up to you, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u646	Yeah, we'll hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u647	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u648	Perhaps I should answer the question of the SGP right now. For Mr Stoffer recapitulated my argument with Van Haga by asking: did I understand correctly, the entry test is never required, in any situation? And you wanted to mark that for a moment, because in the concept version there is a mandatory entrance test for cafes and restaurants for example. "I would like a brief confirmation," says Mr Stoffer, "not, never, mandatory." Well, very precisely, but also this is what we are going to do next week, of course, in the legislative process: it will not be mandatory for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs should not be obliged to participate. But the option is that you can do less with your case, or open later or with fewer people, but you can. People aren't required to be subjected to an entrance test either, because you don't have to go to that restaurant, and you don't have to go to that theater, you don't have to do that. You can also go to that theatre that doesn't participate in those entrance tests, or not go to a theatre at all and listen to a beautiful DVD. It's all possible. So all those things you don't have to go to, they can use access tests. If you want to go to that theater where they use access tests, because they can be with more people behind the gate, then you are supposed to participate in access tests. Well, that's an obligation, you could say, and that has to be a legal basis and that's exactly what the bill is about. Education, and say the important facilities where you can't go without it, for example, there will be no access tests. So I hope I've answered it as accurately as possible, and otherwise next week, I hope. Then motion to part No. 1120, from the Christian Union: research free quick tests for minima. Yes... I'm not for that. I'm just not for that. Look, what we're doing is that for those situations where it's really necessary: access tests, government bill; testing in education, self-testing in education, government bill. We are contributing 450 million towards safer workplaces, because employers can claim co-financing. And it's been beautiful once in a while, so for the rest I wouldn't be in favour of going to the Etos with test coupons. So I'm just not really in favour of it, so I'm deceiving this motion. Then reconsider the casinos and the arcades. You'll have to explain to me again what you have against the casinos. I think they're just participating in the pilots access tests, so I wouldn't want that at all. I'm gonna dissuade this one. As long as I don't have to go. Then motion to part No. 1124: freedom of choice for citizens whenever possible. That is not possible, at least not if you do not want to go to huge delays. So we're not gonna do that. Dissuade. Then testing resources, deploying for more open education. That's a misunderstanding; I'm going to dissuade it. That doesn't have to be an or-or-choice. We pay a lot of money to use self-tests in education. We are also going to provide them and make them possible. We buy them in and there's plenty of distribution. By the way, we are also working on access tests. We're both gonna do that. We also help employers. So we're gonna do a lot of tests. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1126. I ask the petitioner to hold it until the bill is dealt with. It is in the bill, but nothing like something we want to oblige for that day per week physical education. Suppose you would like to hold very large lectures there with a lot of students, then it could be a choice, further to be decided and to be debated. So let's grab this next week at the bill. I would now like to ask you to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u649	I would just like to look at Mr Kuzu if he is prepared to make the motion in part No. 1126 to be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u650	Let's do that. We'll talk about it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u651	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u652	Then the motion to part No. 1128. I'm gonna dissuade them. It's a very sympathetic thought, but the ratio back then was: they're older people, we had fewer locations then, so sometimes partners had to help each other get to the location if they didn't want to use the offered transport, et cetera. Now we are really in a very different age category. If that's where I'm gonna organize these things, then everybody's not gonna be in the right order anymore. So I'm going to discourage this motion in this form. Then the motion on the possibility of non-invasive testing. I'm not going to recommend this motion. There is a great deal to be said about it, but the President is probably not going to give room for it. This motion actually confuses many forms of testing. So I'm really going to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u653	That's the motion in part No. 1129.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u654	Mr. Chairman. That's it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u655	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u656	Yeah, I think, to be honest, it's a little too easy. You say that we can say a great deal about it, and the President is probably not going to give me permission to do so. So you're actually making the decision for the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u657	I shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u658	You say: because there is a lot to say about it and a lot is mixed up, I advise against the motion. I think it is fine that you should advise against a motion, but I would like to have a little more clarity as to why. Maybe I can even live with it. It's possible. Maybe not. This way, it's a little too easy for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u659	I get that. What we do every time is to look carefully at what tests are on the market. Then we are indeed looking at less invasive methods. For example, they are already fully used for children at the GGD-test streets. I don't need to grant an exemption for that at all. So less invasive methods and exemptions certainly do not necessarily have to do with each other. What was I supposed to grant that waiver for? For a test that was put on the market as a medical device, which was put on the market as a medical device, and is now actually being used as a self-help device. That test had never gone through a CE marking path for that. And that's why that waiver was necessary. In the direction of the cabinet, it is requested to grant an exemption for non-antigen tests. It refers to less invasive methods. But those two things certainly do not necessarily have to do with each other. In short, we are always looking for less invasive test methods, especially if they can be applied more easily, for example for children but also for the elderly. So that's what we're gonna do anyway. Furthermore, we have granted the exemption, otherwise we would have to go through a complete CE marking pathway. That's just taking too much time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u660	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u661	As far as I know, there are tests available that are just CE certified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u662	Sure. But then I won't have to grant an exemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u663	Apparently, there are people who have market tests that shouldn't be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u664	Yes, but where they should apply, we have just granted the exemption. If they're sufficiently validated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u665	Then I would like to make this motion, because I would like to make it even more detailed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u666	We're going to study on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u667	We're going to study on it. At least I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u668	Me too. I'm even going to promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u669	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u670	I'm even going to promote it. We're gonna study on it and we're gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u671	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u672	Then there are two more motions in which an appreciation must be given, the motions in part Nos. 1110 and 1119.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u673	Thank you, Mr President. The motion in part No. 1110 is about the health bonus. I advise against this motion. There is no cover, and I have an established budget, still from missionary times. I'll also tell the Chamber that if you gave everyone the $500 bonus, in line with the expectations, you'd be up to 765 million extra. Mr Segers said: consider one and a half modes. I would like to look into that, but I would like to say to Mr Segers that I would first like to see what this means for implementation. It would be a different limit from the previous one, so that would have consequences for employers. I tasted the freedom to find out, so I'll look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u674	When can the Minister come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u675	If that's the way we figure it out, I'll see if I can do it. If we can't, we're a little tight in time, so I'll wait on Tuesday. We already have contacts with the performer, because we would like to open the window on 15 June, so that people in care get the money in a period that is still related to the covid time. I have tasted the freedom that I should be allowed to act as things stand, or else I would like to hear it from Mr Segers. Then the motion to part No. 1119 by Mrs Van Esch. I have just agreed this motion with LNV, because we had the discussion about the markets of wild and exotic animals. By the way, the World Health Organisation is discussing this at the end of May. So that's the deadline we're talking about. However, the operative part of the motion refers to animal fairs and animal markets. That's going a little further. That is why I advise against the motion, but we do want to significantly reduce the risk of zoonoses. We did not exchange it in this debate, but the expert group on zoonoses will present a report. That's what the Cabinet bases its measures on. This motion has therefore been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u676	That raises a question for Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u677	I will hold the motion for a moment, because I do see that we have written 'animals', when I have specifically talked about wild animals and mentioned a number of them. I'll come back to it. I had asked a number of second-term questions about the number of notifications and the number of infections in slaughterhouses at the moment. You yourself would come back in second place when more information would come about the WTO's request. So I'm still missing some answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u678	The WTO request is at the end of May. That's what I told you. We will discuss this at the end of May. I admit, however much I said in the first period, that in the next letter I will deal in detail with the situation in slaughterhouses, including the figures. That will be in next week's letter, or if that's too soon, then the one after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u679	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-15-tweedekamer-14.u680	Voting on the motions will take place next Tuesday. I thank the three rulers. I thank the MPs and the viewers at home, and I close the meeting.
