ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 35242, Amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017. We need the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to all those who have spoken on this matter this morning. I would just like to state what my structure is; that might help those who are present today. I'll start by saying something in an introductory manner. Much has been discussed this morning, not only the legislative proposal but also the context of the legislative proposal. Then I divided it as follows. First of all, the questions about bulk data. Then questions on supervision, European case law, the signing of the Convention 108+ et cetera. The third part is the implementation of the Wiv 2017. Then I will also deal with the evaluation, other institutions and such things. Finally, some specific questions that were more about the services and their work. That's the structure. Here and there it hits each other, but I tried to sort it out that way. Initiating. On the agenda is the bill Amendment of the Act on Intelligence and Security Services 2017. It has emerged, as many have reminded us today, from the consultative referendum on the Wiv. That was in March 2018. The outcome of that referendum was a clear signal to me and the cabinet that we really had to take additional measures, especially in the careful handling of data. It is therefore a question of additional safeguards. We did. Those measures have therefore entered into force immediately. That's very important to say. At the same time, we saw that policy rules were insufficient. We wanted it to be established in a legislative amendment. So we really wanted a formal commitment to that part of those measures. That's the legislative change that's going on here. Making a law takes time. Treating a law takes time, too. In the meantime, of course, the world has not stood still in many ways: technological developments, digital opportunities, the development of a threat to national security and the development of our security services. Those developments are moving fast. That is why I understand very well that questions have been asked about this and that comments have been made. We now have the report of the evaluation committee Wiv 2017. It is important to say that before the law came into force, it was agreed to start an early assessment of the law. An evaluation committee has been set up relatively soon after entry into force, also because of the agreement that has been made on this subject. It has produced a report by now. You can also see it from that report: there are developments and there are bottlenecks in the law and in the application of the law. The evaluation committee recommends amending the law on a number of points. We have also received a report from the General Court, which also identifies these bottlenecks. These are all reasons to say: this change of law is necessary. That is actually the legislative amendment resulting from the 2008 referendum and the measures taken at that time. We're seeing another change in the law, but it's not here yet. It can't be that fast. This automatically leads to the question raised by many this morning: is this proposal necessary in this way? Should we perhaps wait for a new proposal so that we can address all the other issues? The answer is: yes, this change of law is necessary, because it sees what we have already agreed on in the past. What we have already promised and done, we are now legally recording. That, I think, is very important. But the law will indeed have to be changed more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u4	But this is really about something: it is about the demand for focus, really a very important guarantee, of course, in the daily work of the services, and that it is legally anchored. We're already doing it, but it's legally anchored. And the same goes for the unevaluated data: if you share it with other services in an international cooperation, then there is a reporting obligation towards the CTIVD. This is also regulated in a legal way, i.e. with a legal guarantee. Finally, and that is what I think is very important about the proposal before us: a vulnerability in the system of scrutiny and supervision is actually being removed, because the proposal provides for the appointment of alternate members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, the TIB. That was indeed not foreseen. You can always say afterwards: how is that even possible, that they didn't think about that at the time? Well, I guess that's 'in committee' then, I'll say, because no one had that clear enough at the time. Because that is not settled, and otherwise it would have been settled already. And I'm really glad we can fix that now. Finally, and I shall come back to that in a moment, questions have been asked and comments made on the report of the evaluation committee. So that gives cause for thought, and I am also pleased to see that this Chamber has taken the initiative to discuss this with the evaluation committee itself, as well as with the supervisors, as well as with the services. That seems sensible and good to me, and that is what your Chamber is all about. But there is no proposal from the cabinet; this cabinet or the next cabinet. All we have done is embrace the report and announce that that will mean that there will be a change of law. And I would like to say here: it is not ahead; everything still has to be done, I would almost say. But I will always do it, and so I would like to hand it over to a next cabinet, if that is what happens: do it with consideration of all interests. That must be done incredibly carefully, especially with this law. And then you have to make sure that the safeguards necessary for privacy are in there; that what the services have to do for national security is secured; and that you also have an eye for the feasibility. I will come to that in a moment, because there have been questions about that too. But I cannot anticipate these matters. Once again, that is only when we start working on the elaboration of the recommendations of the evaluation committee, so how we deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u5	I therefore call on Members to focus in the debate on the legislative proposal that is now before us, otherwise it will be a very large policy debate, and that will come when the next legislative proposal is tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u6	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I will be on a number of points, because it has been discussed quite urgently... That's where it gets to, but indeed, there's no bill for it. Then the bulk data. Questions have been asked and comments have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr Nicolaï is already coming forward, because he does not agree? Go ahead, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u8	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. This was a general introduction, you might say. But does the Minister go further into the fact that there was an important ruling by the European Court of Justice two weeks ago, and to what extent does that go through in the examination of current legislation and future legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u9	I am going to answer Mr Nicolaï's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u10	As far as the current law is concerned. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. I understand the Minister had come to the end of the introductory block. On the remaining blocks, I noticed that there was no return to the referendum. But I asked a question this morning, and it hasn't been answered yet. I'd still like to ask him. I assume that the referendum will give rise to this law, as the Minister says. I have asked whether the Minister sees these changes, which are now contained in this bill, as improvements and thus also says that referenda can lead to legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u12	I heard your question. I hadn't forgotten him; I was going to answer it later. I think it's improvements to the law. As I said in my introduction, they are the direct result of the outcome of the consultative referendum that was held. So I can only actually answer yes twice. I would also like to say to Mr Koole that it is quite conceivable that we could have come to these insights in other ways, for example from reports from supervisors or, for example, from an evaluation report as it is now. I think it's nice that we were able to make these improvements in 2018. But I hope that we have set up the system in such a way that, even without holding a consultative referendum, we always have an eye for those guarantees and that balance between privacy on the one hand and national security on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u13	I welcome this answer. Of course, there are other ways that can lead to insight. A referendum is not the only way, but I also note that the Minister agrees with me that the consultative referendum on this issue has led to improvements in this legislative proposal and that this can therefore be the effect of referendums.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. Then the bulk data. There have been specific questions about it, but if I try to hang over it a little bit, then I also experience concern in this Chamber about the use of bulk datasets. Some people wonder if it is necessary to do so at all. Others see the processing and destruction of it in particular. That's why I'd like to take the Chamber for a brief moment. Mr Nicolaï even asked if the services could do their job without bulk datasets. The answer to that is actually quite simple, namely no. But the answer is also that it has always been. The work of security services has, in fact, always consisted of assessing and using bulk data. Except that's not what we used to call it. We used to call it a database. These are databases that we can all imagine, at least those of us who are so old that they used to just have a phone book next to the phone. That's also a bulk dataset. That's also a database. So its use is really necessary. I also really believe that everyone is convinced that this is the case, not only the services themselves, but also the supervisors, the evaluation committee and the European Court of Human Rights. Everyone knows that security services have to work with that kind of data in order to do their job properly. So basically, the use of those bulk datasets, those databases, is very old. That's really nothing new. What is, of course, new is how we can now collect these bulk datasets. With the advent of information technology, new opportunities have emerged and large bulk datasets have been created. Mr Nicolaï also asked "that's a related question "How the use of bulk datasets relates to the innocence charge'. This does not really play a role in the implementation of the work of the security services, because they have a mission, namely to investigate threats, known threats and unprecedented threats. That doesn't depend on whether someone's guilty or innocent. That's also something that plays in criminal law. It's a criminal charge. The security services have a defined policy area that looks at national security and that is based on threats. Those threats have to be able to find them. Of course, it is not relevant at that time whether someone is guilty or innocent. That's not what the service's about. They're only interested in the threat. That is also the framework within which they work. Which bulk datasets do the services use now? Someone - I thought it was Mr Koole - mentioned the example of passenger data. That is indeed a very good example. It is also an example of bulk dataset use that is really indispensable for the services, for example in terrorist investigations or in research into hostile activities of foreign services and their way of working, precisely when it is disguised, because that is how it is done. Mr Nicolaï asked for examples. With the help of bulk data obtained with the hacking permission, locations have been identified by Dutch extravagants in former ISIS area. It's data that has also played a role in the investigation into the use of improvised explosive devices against Dutch military. Those bulk data also provided intelligence that helped to clear up the likely involvement of the Iranian service in liquidations in the Netherlands. And finally, bulk data obtained with the hacking power play a role in investigations of international interest, for example establishing the identity of persons involved in nerve gas attacks in Syria. That was in the period 2016-2017. These are not examples that I now make public here, these are examples that have been used earlier in reports and that are also included in the report of the evaluation committee, for example. These are examples in which you can see directly the application of bulk data and the results that services can achieve thanks to the fact that they can use that tool. I hope that this is clear and convincing for Mr Nicolaï as well. So I think it is important that the services can work with these bulk data, and at the same time I think it is equally important that it is handled very carefully and that a balance is always made that respects the protection of national security, because of being able to recognise that threat, while at the same time doing just as much justice to the right to privacy that we all have. This means that you look closely at why you want certain bulk data, which part of that data is relevant and which part of it needs to be saved. As far as I am concerned, this always applies: to keep as little data as possible unnecessarily long. So that actually starts with the acquisition and you have to go all the way to the ultimate destruction. I'd like to go through that with the Room, too. First of all, the acquisition. They may be bulk datasets, but there must always be a legal basis for that. Services can do this in different ways. You can acquire bulk datasets by hacking. It can be done through the deployment of agents, it can be done through the deployment of informants. Mr Koole asked for it. Passenger data gets the services through the Royal Marechaussee. That's public information. It's done on the basis of the informant's authority. I am glad that Mr Koole asked that question because I think that a lot of people have a very different picture of informants. So it doesn't have to be an individual at all. It may well be about an organization. It may even be about a government branch, as in the case of the Royal Marechaussee. The evaluation committee also looked at this. It is one of the committee's proposals that a separate basis should be established for the acquisition by a co-government, a government branch. Then you don't have to go through the route of informant privilege anymore. That's the way it's organized now. It is clear that there are certain data in it that can help to protect our national security. However, bulk data also acquires data that in itself does not answer research questions at all. Sometimes the whole set matters. Sometimes only part of the set matters. So that's what you have to judge. This is what intelligence services do: extracting from a whole set of data something that is very relevant to the intelligence position. The question is of course: how can you throw away as much as possible what is not relevant and keep as little as possible what is relevant. So you must first acquire as focused as possible and then reduce as focused as possible. That's how the services work: as focused as possible. We have also described it in the explanatory memorandum and the response. It depends on the research, on the stage in which the research is being conducted, on the threat there is, but also on the technical reality. Sometimes you can only acquire a great deal. You can't acquire a piece. This means that, after acquisition, efforts can be made to reduce the data set. However, the services must always motivate why they want to acquire a bulk dataset and they must also motivate it to be necessary, proportionate, subsidiary and as targeted as possible. Only then will they be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u15	Now the CTIVD in report number 70 has looked at how this is going. It appears that not always is selected in relevant and irrelevant data. The services themselves have also indicated that it is sometimes too short a period. It turns out that in certain situations the Minister has said: we regard everything as relevant, without that selection being made within a year and a half, while in Article 27, paragraphs 1 and 3 we have agreed that the selection must be made within a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u16	So the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u17	The question is: how can it be that everything is declared relevant without selection, which means that those data are kept for longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u18	I wanted to get to that point, because you asked that question in the first period. I think it is a little more nuanced than Mr Dittrich just described. First of all, Mr Bijleveld and I agree with the CTIVD that these bulk datasets are necessary and that they can have long-term value. So there's no dispute about that. There's really only one point where we haven't been able to find each other at all. That is the interpretation of the concept of "relevance assessment." It has been used in this way for the first time in the implementation of this law. The fact that you sometimes have to look a little bit for what was meant by the legislator is not that crazy to me. It therefore states that the services must, within a maximum of 1,5 years of their acquisition, assess whether the data acquired is relevant for information research. With the introduction of the new law, the services are to apply to the bulk datasets acquired. They have looked at the relevance of a part, a small part, a large part or the whole set. For example, the concept of "relevance assessment" has been defined by the services. That was done very seriously. A number of sets were completely or partially destroyed after that assessment after 1,5 years, as the relevance assessment indicated. Other sets proved to be relevant to the services in their entirety. That is actually the bottleneck of the interpretation and of the dispute that ensued between the services and therefore the responsible directors... and the supervisor. I insist that the relevance assessment has been carried out as required by the law, namely: see if the data is relevant to the intelligence investigations. And that's what happened. Part of it is completely destroyed or part of the set is destroyed. In some cases it is considered that the whole set is still relevant. That is what the services are doing within the law, we have said. The CTIVD explains that differently. Although she agrees with us that sets can have operational value, she believes that these sets should be destroyed after 1.5 years. It is therefore a question of interpretation. It's never very nice to have such a conversation with the supervisor, because you look at it differently. That is why we have also asked the evaluation committee to assist us in this. The evaluation committee did the same. What we're going to do with that is to follow, because that change of law is yet to come. This is in the core the difference of understanding that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u19	I understand that, because there is indeed a difference of opinion or a difference of understanding about the relevance. If you look at the history of law, you can see that various groups in the Second and in the First Chamber have said that there really needs to be a selection. The fact that the services say "everything is relevant because the investigation is relevant" nevertheless ignores the content of the objections raised at the time in the legal history. My question remains: how do we solve this situation? It may well be that the legislative proposal on the basis of the evaluation committee and anyone who is then heard is still waiting for a year or two, while there is a big difference of opinion on this subject with an important supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u20	That is another justified question from Mr Dittrich. We have also seen this and of course we have wondered whether we can resolve it quickly. We also discussed it with the CTIVD. Could you make a legislative change that explicitly empowers you to use that set for longer? Well, that's complicated. We now have this law amendment. We see from the evaluation committee and from the issues that need to be clarified in the law that there is still a bit more legislative change to come. Given the report written by the evaluation committee, we have said that this amendment is actually so robust that it is not obvious to do so in some sort of repair law. It is too complicated a subject for that. That is not what we have chosen. This means that in the meantime we will continue to work on this difference of understanding between the supervisor and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u21	Finally, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u22	Finally. Can you assure us that a judge will not say: the law states in paragraphs 1 and 3 a total of 1.5 years; yet all these data are kept without any selection; there is a line going through?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u23	That is not the case. There has certainly been a selection. All bulk datasets have been assessed for relevance. A large part has been destroyed. Only in what remains, there is a difference of insight about the relevance of the whole set. Once again, I think it is very clear that we are dealing with exceptional cases and that we can very well demonstrate that relevance. Of course, I can never sit on a judge's seat, but that is the statement I am defending here, because I can stand for it from my own responsibility, without any problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u24	I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole. I would suggest that we have the Minister round off each block, otherwise we will always have the question of whether there will be another question. We'll lose a lot of time with that. Most of the questions will probably still be answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u25	I'm also trying to follow those cubes, but if the minister is there... I think she's now talking about bulk data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u26	Is the cube ready yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u27	No, I'm not quite done with the bulk data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u28	I didn't think so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u29	This morning I talked about the possibility of a dead sparrow. This had everything to do with the attempt in this legislative proposal to apply the criterion "as targeted as possible." This has been one of the consequences of the referendum. The evaluation committee states that this draft law does not contain sufficient grounds for appropriate application of the criterion "as targeted as possible in the case of bulk acquisition." If the evaluation committee already states that this legislative proposal does not provide an adequate criterion, how can this bill on bulk processing apply the criterion "as targeted as possible"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u30	Look, the focus requirement sees everything. That's also shown on the bulk data. I find it difficult because I myself now also call in the evaluation report every time, when I said at the beginning that this is not really the subject of the debate. The services have been operating with the target requirement since May 2018. That's also been tested. If the evaluation committee says it can do even better, or if the CTIVD says it can do even better, it can, but that does not mean that the services are not doing it now. This was done precisely in 2018. That orientation has been multiplied and that means that for the bulk data, too, that orientation requirement is provided for and that, for all specific cases, for each form of acquisition, explanations should be given about that orientation and that ultimately can be verified by the supervisor and by the Chamber. I do not believe that the requirement for targeting has not been fulfilled until now. On the contrary, it has been filled in since 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u31	The Minister says: we'll talk about the evaluation committee's report next time. But the report says on pages 49 and 50 on the explanatory memorandum to this bill: that is too vague. This is the legislative proposal that we want to take into account the outcome of the referendum. If such an evaluation committee has looked at it and finds this bill too vague...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u32	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u33	... is it not, so I ask the Minister again, a dead sparrow that has actually remained a dead sparrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u34	No. Again, I think we have recognised this since 2018. The motion-Recourt was: as directed as possible. That is what we have laid down in the policy rule. That's how the services started to operate. Just because it might be even better doesn't mean it hasn't happened so far. That would be my statement back. We work with the target requirement. The evaluation committee has said that you could further elaborate on this requirement. That's not gonna tell you it's not gonna happen. It's an addition to what's happened now. Besides, if that didn't happen right now, we'd still have a TIB. The TIB must assess the legality in advance. I therefore believe that it is clear to everyone that this means that the services do. Maybe it's good to say the following. I have just answered Mr Dittrich's question, but I forgot to add that we have drawn up a supplementary policy rule for bulk datasets on this point. We are going to change the law, but we have already established a policy rule, the Temporary Arrangement further processing bulk datasets. In addition to the current law, we have introduced additional safeguards for the transitional period on the way to the next legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u35	That's how you got to the end of the bulk data block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u36	I think so, because of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u37	Thanks to the interruptions, even?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u38	Thanks to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u39	That's very nice. Mr. Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u40	The Minister says that the criterion "as targeted as possible" is already being applied, in accordance with the Recourt motion and that it is already laid down in the law. But what does it mean in practice? Does it mean looking at it and motivating it to be as targeted as possible, but that the conclusion is that it is very common in bulk data that "as focused as possible" means: no selection at all? I mean, it's not foreseeable. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u41	That's a tricky concept, that provisionability. It is foreseeable for the citizen. In all cases, the services must motivate. The same applies to the bulk datasets. They need to motivate why they want to acquire those datasets. That is what they must support: it must be necessary, proportionate, subsidiary and as targeted as possible. Only then can you get permission. So that's in the front. Mr Koole's question is whether the focus is foreseeable for the citizen. Yes, that's actually automatic, because that orientation requirement is in the policy rule and is now in the law. That makes it foreseeable in itself. It is, of course, a complicated discussion of bulk data. What I just said, bulk data is about a lot of data. A phone book is also a bulk dataset. Is it then foreseeable for the citizen, who, of course, is extremely active on the Internet? The law is there and it makes demands. The explanatory memorandum shows that the target criterion is being applied and that therefore consent must always be given. That's where the providence comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u42	Thank you for the Minister's comprehensive answer to my questions. I still have a problem. The examples that the minister mentioned called hacking and a number of other examples were all related to more research-oriented interception for my opinion. The ruling of the European Court of Justice specifically concerned the collection of data from millions of clearly innocent people and the subsequent analysis. You'll always find something. That was my example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u43	I will come to your point about the ruling of the European Court of Justice. Still, I'd like to turn it around for a while. It's not like you can swim in bulk data until you come across something, because you already have to give permission at the front. Then that point of focus is already a requirement. No matter how you acquire it, whether it's by a hack or by an informant, like we did with that passenger data: there's got to be a reason to get that bulk data on the front. Once they have been acquired, the processing begins and you have to assess it by relevance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u44	What about the European Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u45	I will return to the European Court in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u46	That's in block two, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u48	I had asked the Minister about the exchange of bulk datasets abroad. This may lead to inconsistencies if those services abroad do not decide within one and a half years what to do with those bulk datasets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u49	I will come back to that in a moment, but I can say a few words about that. We work with other services. Our services are subject to our legislation and supervision, i.e. for the acquisition and processing of bulk datasets. For sharing with other services, we have also laid down criteria in the weighting note. It says something about the cooperation and the type of services you share that information with. Of course, information is shared, including with us. Fortunately, because that is incredibly important for intelligence. It is true that bulk data may be shared with services from other countries that have different legislation, have a different form of supervision and thus deal with bulk data differently. By the way, this will hardly ever be about data from Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u50	We've had a piece of block two. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u51	I will come back to the block about bulk data, because I had asked a few more questions about that. In view of the statement of the AIVD Summit that from now on only wahabi-salafism is being discussed instead of just the problem of Islam, my question is first of all whether there are any obstacles to the use of bulk datasets if certain terms in the eyes of the AIVD-top are inappropriate. My second point is that the Minister says that the degree of focus must always be substantiated. Can the Minister provide some insight into the balance-of-payments framework which can properly determine the degree of focus, proportionality and subsidiarity? Is there a framework for that? How does that balancing framework come about? What is the policy on this? It's unclear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u52	With Mr Van Hattem's permission, I would like to come back to that in block four. That is where I put his questions and the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u53	I would suggest that Members be patient if their question has not yet been answered. Most of the time, it's about something. We are losing a lot of time by constantly asking whether the question is still coming. Most of the time, he shows up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u54	Then I would like to answer the questions that were about supervision, case law, etc. Perhaps first of all, the more overarching questions. Does that supervision work well, asked Mr Koole? Mr De Vries asked whether there was any comprehensive supervision. I really think that we can proudly say that the Netherlands has a very robust system of monitoring and monitoring the security services. All the activities of the services shall be covered by that system, subject to an interim and post-term review and supervision. The two supervisors we now have, the TIB and the CTIVD, have heavy powers to carry out their tasks. Proposals have been made by the evaluation committee to improve or rearrange this, but in all cases, even if you do what the evaluation committee says, there is an integral system in which all activities are covered by both supervisors; from prior authorisation to ex post evaluation. Now the evaluation committee proposes to focus the ex-ante review by the TIB on the acquisition of data, and to apply the dynamic monitoring that is now being carried out by the CTIVD to the further processing and thus, in fact, to the use of the data. That is what the evaluation committee is proposing because it fits in with a certain degree of dynamism and manoeuvrability. This is inherent in the work of the services and in research practice. The evaluation committee is proposing to solve something that you're running into right now. Moreover, the evaluation committee has also proposed that there should be more exchange between the two supervisors so that the stick between the two can always be handed over. It's just a strong supervisory system. Whatever changes we are going to have to make with the amendment of the law, that should not affect that system or the practice of research. Both supervisors have, of course, sent out a signal. We have to take that very seriously. By the way, further work on the legislative amendment also involves a very good and serious discussion with the supervisors. They will certainly come back to that. Mr Nicolaï asked why the CTIVD's recommendations were not binding. You could indeed put it this way: the TIB tests for legality at the front; you have to get the green light for that, otherwise it simply doesn't happen. That is, by definition, binding. The CTIVD reports on the work of the services and can make recommendations. The choice of whether or not to adopt recommendations lies with the ministers. They shall be responsible for the conduct of the service concerned at all times. Ministers must be accountable to Parliament for whether or not they accept the recommendations. That's how the system works. There's gonna be a report from the CTIVD. That goes to both rooms. The cabinet responds to this and says that it accepts the recommendation or not, of course, is motivated. In the only case that a minister decides not to take a recommendation, the parliament can hold the minister accountable. That is very effective, I think, and also does justice to our system, to the ministerial responsibility and the role of Parliament. You'd like to keep that. That is also what the evaluation committee concluded. As far as the cabinet is concerned, there is absolutely no question about the role of supervision. As I said, we are proud to have such a good supervisory system. Since the entry into force of the Wiv, the CTIVD has made 74 recommendations. Seventy of them have been taken over. The fact that four have not been taken over had to do with current discussions on the legal requirements to assess, for example, data obtained with the use of special powers to be relevant, precisely the point that we were just discussing. If there is a difference of opinion on the interpretation of the law and the application of the law, we inform the Chambers. This makes the system robust, transparent and functioning, with a role for parliament. I think this is important for Parliament itself. Then there is Mr Dittrich's question, who said that you might be able to put TIB and CTIVD together. He also suggested moving the complaint handling department to the National Ombudsman. It is possible to bring the two supervisors together. I think we should just look at it, but I would point out that you must have an organization with very high Chinese walls. After all, one room must not interfere with the other. One has to check at the front and then it gets a bit crazy like the same organization that said yes at the front, at the back should be very critical about how things went. So it can be done, but then we have to work with Chinese walls. So I don't see exactly what this adds. It's not taboo for me, but I'm not exactly sure why this helps. Then there's the complaint treatment. The external complaint procedure went from the National Ombudsman to the CTIVD when the Wiv was created. This means a new task for the CTIVD, with a new department. Previously, the CTIVD had only a complaint and advisory function, but now it gives a binding opinion on complaints. That was a necessary change at the time. That also depends on that commitment. The binding judgment that the CTIVD now has is again different from how the National Ombudsman usually acts, because it can be characterised as a semi-judicial activity. That's a choice that's been made, which I do support. I'd like to keep that. I come now to Mr Nicolaï's questions. He asked a question about compatibility with the ECHR. Actually, he asked two questions. He asked whether the cabinet would like to have an external examination of whether the proposal made by the evaluation committee met the requirements of the ECHR. He also asked if Convention 108+ meant that the CTIVD should be given perseverance. The evaluation committee came quickly at the request of the Chamber, and I think it is even laid down in the government agreement, so that is what groups in the Chamber have determined. The evaluation committee is by definition an independent body. It consisted of expert, external persons, who had expertise in a multitude of fields, of course in the field of intelligence work, but also in the field of human rights, for example. So it was a wide-ranging committee. So the external report is actually already there. That report explicitly addressed the significance of European privacy rules. So that's one. Following on, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Dittrich asked how the rulings of these European judges relate to the law and to possible future amendments. Well, these are very relevant statements, that's right. They're being studied in great detail. It is also quite a pile of paper; I think Mr Nicolaï is familiar with it. My department is following the developments in the case law very closely, because as a department you should always consider whether there might be an impact on the performance of the task of the intelligence and security services in this case, and possibly also on the legal framework. That is therefore a logical question from Mr Nicolaï. I would very much like the lawyers in my department to do that analysis, and I can very well imagine that I share that analysis with this Chamber, if the Chamber appreciates it. The analysis is not yet complete, because it really needs to be done very thoroughly. I would therefore say that this is relevant case law in the further run-up to the preparation of a legislative proposal implementing the recommendation of the evaluation committee. I'm willing to share that analysis with your room as soon as we get to the department. And then, of course, we go through the whole process of drafting the legislative proposals, including the consultation phase. And of course, by then, I don't know when that will be, but I'm pretty sure that with a new cabinet that will be the Council of State will look into it as well. Then there is the expert legal advice. Mr President, I thought those were the questions on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u55	Block two. Was this block two, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u56	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u57	Do I understand that the ratification of 108+ will be taken into account in the analysis of the recent case law? And the second question, linked to it, is: when can we expect ratification?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u58	It is very good that Mr Dittrich reminds me of that, because I also had to answer that question. Indeed, we are simply planning to ratify the Treaty. It is a proposal for an approval law, and we are already very far along with it. That law could've been there by now, but it's going to be a state law. We didn't think that at first, but we chose to make it a state law. That means that that approval must have been given throughout the Kingdom and that has slowed it down a bit. The planning is now that we have it on the agenda at the first National Council after the summer recess. This means that the submission of the bill and ratification will be after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u59	The Minister has referred several times to the possible consequences of the proposals of the evaluation committee. The term that the cabinet has embraced the proposals has been used. What does this mean, given all the developments that were there after that? Think of the judgments of the European judges and the report of the Court of Auditors. Wouldn't it be wise to at least take a lot of time to think about what's going on? And two: I would like to hear from the Minister whether the proposals of the evaluation committee are the framework on which the new law is made. Or is there also the possibility that other insights may be introduced, which may not take over all the proposals of the evaluation committee, or that other proposals may also be accepted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u60	With this question, I'm going seamlessly into block three, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u61	There he is again, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u62	Is that okay? Yes. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u63	If Mr Koole is satisfied with that, I suggest we wait for that. Then it also comes into context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u64	I was a little distracted from the Minister's argument that she believes that prior consent from the TIB is always required, but that is of course not the case at all. For example, Article 60 of the law states that the services are competent to carry out automated data analysis on a whole range of issues. We don't need permission to do that. That's the bulk data I've been talking about and which could contain a lot of innocent data. I would therefore like the Minister to comment on that. I have a second question. I asked why the Supervisory Commission would not be given a power of perseverance. In fact, no answer has been given to that question. In her reply, the Minister says that there is now parliamentary control, but that is not my question. My question is whether there should be a perseverance force, in which the Minister is obliged to follow what the Supervisory Board says to follow. Then you can always go to a board judge. That is actually a very normal situation in administrative law. I don't have an answer to that question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u65	Two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u66	I'll start with the first question. When acquiring, permission must be given by the TIB. It's different when it comes to processing. Then the data is already there. Then they need to be processed. It does not require the TIB's consent, but it simply has to comply with the agreements that have been made on this matter and the law that sees it. This is therefore also about the relevance assessment with regard to the bulk data. Then I come to the second question. I just outlined this. Quite simply, if the CTIVD were to exercise binding supervision, the CTIVD's recommendations would always have to be adopted one-on-one. In that case, Parliament is going to put itself out of business, I say very loudly. It is now the case that the recommendations are being accepted or not, and that they are being held accountable to Parliament. If that's in the CTIVD, then it won't be in Parliament anymore. That's just how I tried to explain it. At least that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u67	There are all kinds of very important permits granted by the Minister. Then you can also say: if you do not do that well, you can call him to account in parliament. Still, you can just go over those permits to the board judge. So I still do not understand the Minister's speech. It is also not in line with the articles in 108+, which states that administrative sanctions must be imposed by an external body.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u68	I'm gonna find an intelligence team something else. I recognize, of course, that the situation in which it is so organized exists. That's fine, too. But in the case of intelligence services and the Intelligence Act, I think it's a good thing we organized things differently there. That is a different type of work, another type of execution organisation, I would almost say. Part of it's confidential. This cannot be discussed in public. As far as accountability is concerned, something has been organized for that. Part of it's public. Often those reports of the CTIVD see on matters that we can simply discuss with each other in public. In the current situation, the reports of the CTIVD are, of course, judged very seriously by the Cabinet. The recommendations are accepted and if not, it is up to the Parliament to judge whether the cabinet has done the right thing or not. In that respect, Parliament simply has the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u69	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u70	Yeah, finally. I just asked another question. How does the Minister see it when we start ratifying 108+? It is quite clear that administrative sanctions must be imposed by an external institution, and that is not the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u71	According to my analysis of the Convention 108+, it provides for exceptions and reasons why a country can choose to redesign it. In our view, our system fits within the framework set by Convention 108+ for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. Then I go to the next part: the implementation and related questions. I shall come straight to Mr Koole's point, but others had also asked questions about it. Let me start with Mr Van Hattem. It was one of his very first points. Wasn't it all too fast? Shouldn't we have paid more attention to implementation? We can now take advantage of reports written by the CTIVD, by the evaluation committee, by the Court of Auditors. Indeed, when the law was enacted, more attention should have been paid to the implementation of the law. This does not affect the importance of the law, since the previous law of 2002 was obsolete and required a thorough review. So it really was a modernisation of powers. In the discussion and in the law, it was very much about cable interception. When the law came into force and was implemented, we also found it very important that the services could continue to do their job. During the implementation the store had to keep running. The store stayed open. During the course it appeared that the renovation was quite intensive. We also applied additional safeguards after that. I just spoke about this in the referendum. I think we should learn from that. You have to see that the implementation of such a major legislative amendment is not as easy as it might have been thought. Then there is Mr Koole's question. How does this legislative amendment relate to the evaluation and how does the evaluation relate to a legislative change in the future? First of all, I would like to make the following point. That is what this morning's debate was about. We had the announcement of the legislative amendment and the installation of the evaluation committee. The evaluation committee has already been able to take note of the current legislative amendment during its investigation. That is an important point. I hope that this Chamber will support this small legislative change and that we will focus on the evaluation committee and on what will have to be changed to the law in the future in order to improve it. I think that the cabinet has wanted to say: it is nice that the evaluation committee has done its work, that it has succeeded in doing so in time and that the evaluation committee makes very serious recommendations on a number of issues that we face together, both from the implementation of the services and from the responsibility of ministers and supervisors. I think that we can conclude that that is what I mean by 'encompassing' what the evaluation committee has said about a legislative amendment. There's no other way. That must be done very carefully. That's what I was trying to say in my introduction. Especially in this type of work, you have to do this very carefully with each other, because the work is sensitive to privacy. It concerns national security and the work of the General Intelligence and Security Service. This also includes involving the supervisors. They are part of the system. Of course, this will also have to be discussed with the supervisors. As far as I'm concerned, there's room for that at that stage, in the time we have to take to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u72	Is this block ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u73	I have a few more, but they are actually about other matters, namely data collection by the other public authorities. Perhaps it is good to leave Mr Koole to the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u74	I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u75	I felt it. Sometimes I don't know if you're at the end of the block, so you just miss the debate. Do I hear the Minister say that the preparation of a new legislative proposal should not be limited, nor should it remain limited, to the recommendations of the evaluation committee alone, but that other insights from the supervisor and the General Court and the European rulings are also taken into account and can lead to different outcomes than the evaluation committee has now advocated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u76	Let me put it this way: the report of the evaluation committee is extremely important. As I said, this committee is made up of highly qualified people, in all kinds of areas. They have done a really good job. That report's there. In general, we try to take reports from external committees very seriously. That's just what we're doing with this report. The conclusion that we will have to work on a legislative amendment is also based on the findings of the committee. So in that sense, the cabinet simply said, "This is the report. We welcome the report and we believe it is a reason for a legislative amendment. But in line with that, supervisors have views. There is indeed also a report from the General Court. We may also experience bottlenecks ourselves. Of course, all this must be taken into account in the legislative proposal you are making." So in that sense the answer to Mr Koole's question is: yes, that is possible. I just can't say exactly right now... The evaluation committee provides the starting point for us, but we will have to consider how other insights can play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u77	I understand that in any case it is not taken over one-on-one and that there is therefore room for other insights. My question was also raised this morning by Mrs Gerkens. That question is: can we assume that the legislative changes, which may be adopted with this proposal, will not be reversed in a forthcoming legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u78	There seems to me to be no reason to assume that, also on the basis of the report of the evaluation committee, because the evaluation committee does not make any proposals to reverse what is contained in this legislative proposal. But I have just said that, for example, the supervisory system must be covering, from the ex ante review to the ex post judgement. Of course, the evaluation committee does not change that either. Then there are a few points that touch here and I had to give them a place. The first is data collection from open sources by public authorities other than the services. That is not really about this bill, but I understand that there are questions about it. Just now they called the LIMC, the NCTV and the municipalities. Once again, it looks at the services, but if something has to be done, then of course there is already a framework for these other public authorities. That's the GDPR, because the GDPR just applies to the government. The GDPR actually regulates very much in detail also that form of data collection and data processing. Fortunately, in the Netherlands, we have even more legislation that looks at privacy. I refer to Article 10 of the Constitution, Article 8 of the ECHR, the Police Data Act, the Judicial and Criminal Data Act and the Basic Registration Persons Act. The debate we have seen on the dossiers that I have just mentioned and which have also been discussed this morning is often about their application. This has happened, for example, at the LIMC, the NCTV and the municipalities. This means that within the framework of the GDPR we must indeed pay very close attention to the correct application of that framework in the different sub-domains. So I don't think there's any need for a new generic framework, because there is. At the same time, we need to apply it correctly. Mr Bijleveld explained about the LIMC. It also informed the Chamber by letter and wrote in that letter that that data acquisition would be discontinued. In the case of the NCTV, Mr Grapperhaus has informed us that, insofar as this data collection is needed, we must ensure that the NCTV has a legitimate basis through legislation. Together with the VNG, I am looking very closely at what was going on recently in the municipalities. What can and what can't be done? I promised the House of Representatives that I would come back to that at least before the summer recess. Finally. I thought it was Mr De Vries from the Otten Group who asked whether the CTIVD might then have to supervise the NCTV. The cabinet has made it very clear that we do not want NCTV to become a third intelligence service. I hope this Chamber agrees with me. There is no reason for that, because we have a nice system with two intelligence services. The NCTV really has a different task and is not part of the Wiv either. The CTIVD supervises the intelligence and security services and therefore it is not logical to think that the CTIVD should monitor the NCTV. That was the third block, Mr President, and I can now move on to the last part. Those are the questions that relate to the concrete working methods of the services, the capacity and that sort of thing. I shall begin with the latter, something that Mr Koole asked for. He wanted to know whether the capacity of the services was in order. We have, of course, seen the report of the General Court, which says that the impact of the Wiv has actually been considerable. I just said that in response to Mr Van Hattem. Both this new law and all the changes we see around us mean that there's quite a lot to do. I am thinking, for example, of the threat of geopolitics. We are also seeing a huge increase in the number of cyber attacks. Finally, we see that we must also pay close attention to our economic security. All this is independent of the legislative amendment and implementation. It does mean it's pinching. That is true, but fortunately I have always been able to say that what needs to be done for national security is happening. But it's pinching. If more is needed, it will have to be on the tables and a decision will have to be taken. Mr Koole's second question was about supervisors and capacity. We have already seen at the TIB that the amount of requests the TIB had to deal with was actually too much to check within the deadlines we had set for them. That is why the Minister for General Affairs, who is responsible for this, decided to extend the secretariat from 3 to 6 fte. That's being worked on right now. After the adoption of this proposal, we can recruit four alternate members of the TIB. It is expected that with this extension, both of the support and of the alternate members, there will be sufficient capacity and that the TIB will be able to carry out its legal tasks. By the way, the TIB can always talk to the Ministry of General Affairs; she has done so. For now, it seems to be under control this way. The budget for the CTIVD was substantially increased by 2.5 million per year when the Wiv entered into force, in order to also fulfil the legal tasks. There are no signs now that capacity is not sufficient. The CTIVD and the Ministry of General Affairs also hold regular consultations. Such a discussion could address a capacity problem. A more general question by Mr Van Hattem, which was already put by Mr Nicolaï, was: what is the concrete framework for consideration of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity? I have just said that the legislative proposal is based on the codification requirement, which is a new concept. However, the requirements of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity have, of course, been recognised for decades, and decades are also being worked on in this way. It is always a question of the use of a certain power to answer research questions. They follow from the mission or the task of the service, where you must also be able to assess whether the seriousness of the use of the means, i.e. the choice of the means you are using, outweighs the breach of privacy, i.e. privacy. It should also always be considered whether there is another lighter means to achieve the same result. That depends very much on the context and it must also be motivated every time, so that the person granting the consent... That is the TIB for those cases where the TIB conducts that review. Of course, there are also situations in which it is further delegated in the service itself, but the law lays down in which cases the TIB gives that judgment. That must be well-founded. That's the ex ante review. The CTIVD will then be able to assess in the work carried out by the CTIVD whether compliance with the CTIVD is sufficient. Mr Koole asked about journalists...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u79	Thanks for the answer, but it's kind of general. The Minister says that proportionality and subsidiarity are long-standing concepts. That is absolutely the case, but it is just the specific application to the focus criterion. The minister says it's something the service needs within the duties and authority of the service. How can the Minister prevent this from applying a standard or non-standard reasoning in order to arrive at a balance-of-payments framework or that requirement of focus without a proper balance-of-payments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u80	Mr Van Hattem thinks my answer is a bit general. Maybe I can say back that that is also very general and that the problem is that it is contextual. This need, proportionality, subsidiarity and focus are general requirements which must be explained and substantiated each time specifically, depending on the situation. That's what's gonna happen. Both the front and the CTIVD can be checked on the back. And I can do that the moment I have to give that permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u81	We have to conclude that the degree of focus is determined only by fulfilling those requirements on a situational basis. There is no further framework or consideration. If it is delegated to certain departments, it is not included in a certain format either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u82	I would almost say: on the contrary, because the passing of things can only be done because the law allows for that. In many cases it just goes to the minister and thus also to the TIB. The review carried out by that Committee of Inquiry is fairly robust. The justification of the criteria is different from one case to another and quite extensive, so that the TIB can really form an opinion on this. We have seen that I have also taken responsibility for this, which at least in the beginning, when the TIB was still new, the law was still new and the services still had to work with it, the TIB has also been quite critical and has said that it could really be improved on parts. At the time, it rejected a lot and after that the services actually got better at it, so that this percentage has fortunately fallen significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u83	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u84	Finally, Mr President. Could the Minister please state explicitly once again how it will not be possible to use a purpose-based reasoning in this process, so that it does not become too obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u85	I find that difficult, because Mr Van Hattem then assumes that there is a purpose-based approach. Of course, that is not the case. The services act within their mission, namely to recognise unprecedented and known threats. That's what they support. In doing so, they must always consider whether it is directed, whether it might be possible to use a lighter agent, why it is intended to be used. All this needs to be substantiated and then tested and the TIB gives an opinion on it. If the TIB considers that it can be done, then this is fulfilled and therefore there could never have been a purpose reason. Then there's just an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u86	A short question, because then there can be clarity in the second term. I heard the Minister say that the provisions in 108+ can be waived. I referred to Article 15. I would very much like to know where that Article 108 convention states that if you have ratified that convention, you could deviate from it as a country. That's a practical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u87	That is a practical question which I would like to return to in the second term. We have also taken care in the negotiations on the Convention and on this Convention that it was organized in the Netherlands in a way that is fitable in the existing system, including supervision, but I will come back to Mr Nicolaï's question. Mr Koole said that the further statement of reply states that data related to a journalist is "in principle" not provided to foreign services. He wondered how to explain that "in principle." Ms Gerkens asked how the law helps to prevent data from being shared by journalists or whistleblowers with foreign services. Precisely because journalists, as well as lawyers, have a special and important position in our democratic rule of law, there are safeguards for this. This was also the subject of a political debate during the outcome of the referendum, which is certainly understandable and good. We decided that if the AIVD or the STUDY encounters data from the journalist, this data is not shared with a foreign partner service, unless... The services can only deviate from that if necessary from national security and that is really a very serious criterion. In such cases, the provision of information from journalists to a partner service requires a very strong consideration, because we consider freedom of the press and the protection of journalistic sources to be of major importance. So then you must have very good reasons, driven from national security, to call in that "no, unless." That actually applies to all forms of data. The evaluation committee has now recommended that additional substantive standards should be laid down in the law when providing data to foreign services in relation to journalists, lawyers, whistleblowers and dissidents. And that is one of those recommendations that the cabinet has embraced with the cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u88	I find this answer very interesting, because the Minister is really talking about journalists. That's also in the Wiv text. Now, in other debates with Minister Grapperhaus about going to terrorist areas, we in the First Chamber have asked: can that not be included in that bill? Minister Grapperhaus, the Minister for Justice and Security, then says to us: no, because the term "journalist" is indeterminate; vloggers, bloggers,zzp'ers, you name it, include everyone, so we cannot frame or limit that. But in this bill and in this answer, it does. So my question to the Minister is: who are journalists in the sense of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u89	Yeah, that's a very good question. I would also like to suggest to Mr Dittrich that I come back to that in the second term, because I would like to take a look at the explanation given by Mr Grapperhaus. I am also, of course, familiar with that discussion.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And there are, of course, weighings to be made: is this a journalist? We handle it quite widely. I can be very open about that; as far as I am concerned, in the broadest sense of the word. And that is workable within the framework that we have and which we are dealing with. But I should like to ask one more question so that I can also make the comparison that Mr Dittrich himself is making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u90	May I issue a profit warning? I am going to suspend at exactly 6.05 p.m. for dinner break, in connection with a number of working groups and committees that are starting at that time and in which part of you should also be present. So that's why we're going to maintain that fairly strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u91	I have a few more questions to answer, Mr. Chairman. So I'd already answered that question. A further two or three questions from Mr Van Hattem. He asked why the AIVD mentions conservative-Christian views in the annual report. The AIVD focuses solely on threat, and this can become a threat if certain beliefs take an extremist form. Then there may be a danger or threat to the democratic rule of law. And so, of course, conservative-Christian ideas are not in themselves relevant to the AIVD, but in conjunction with right-wing extremism it can pose a threat, and that can lead to research by the AIVD. He also asked about the redefinition of the term "salafism." Well, that's kind of the same point: the focus on threat. We have clarified it on wahabi-salafism, because that is the form of salafism that runs counter to our democratic rule of law, and therefore has the attention of the AIVD. Finally, the issue of the repatriation that took place this weekend. Mr Van Hattem has asked a question about this, but I think that I should simply refer to the letter from colleagues in the fields of justice and security and foreign affairs. The Chambers were informed by that letter of 5 June. I think it would be better to have that debate in that context, and not on the basis of these legislative amendments. That was my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u92	Thank you, Minister. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 7:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u93	The next item is the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 35242, Amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017. We're due for the second term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. I do have a few points that are open. I heard the Minister just at the end of her first term answer my questions about the concept framework around salafism, or wahabi-salafism, as it is now suddenly referred to by the AIVD summit. The Minister said that this is a clarification, because that would be the real problem. Thus, the Minister implies that other forms of Islam, of Islamization, would suddenly not be a problem as a threat. Could she explain once again why it is specifically limited to the so-called wahabi-salafism and what this means, given the application of this law, for checking, for example, the bulk data and other powers of the law? Is this also only concentrated around the so-called wahabi-salafism? As far as PVV is concerned, it is clear: Islam is Islam, and that is a threat. It needs to be dealt with very specifically, whether it's wahabi or some other form of salafism. Whatever taste it is, it's all different flavors of that same Islam. They all need to be dealt with hard, where necessary. Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Koole talk about a dead sparrow around the target. I think that is a very striking typification, because the outcome of the referendum was clear. There was a vote against most of the voters. Those voters were actually expecting the bill to be withdrawn, as was also stated in Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act. That didn't happen. The Minister has passed this law in its entirety. So again my question: why didn't the Minister just repeal this law? Why has it not come up with another bill which fully met the needs of the electorate, and in particular those who voted against it? Why is it not asked wider in society than just via the so-called internet consultation? Because this internet consultation is a bit of an instrument for the insiders. Mr. Chairman. The opponents, and therefore the majority of the Dutch voters, are therefore pleased with this dead sparrow, with this bill. That is why the PVV Group will vote against this bill, because we are not going to support a dead sparrow. So far, Chairman, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I shall then give the floor to Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for cleaning up so well, because a dead sparrow doesn't smell good, I can tell you. I welcome the detailed answer given by the Minister. I still have a question, also to check it out. In the first term, I proposed that we, as a Chamber, get a good overview of the possible consequences of the recent ruling of the European Court of Justice, and also of the possible consequences if we ratify 108+......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Dittrich has actually asked the same questions. I would just like to check whether the Minister can confirm that as a Chamber we are given a legal analysis of the extent to which the proposals of the evaluation committee are contrary to the recent ruling of the European Court of Justice or are contrary to the provisions of Convention 108+. It would be very nice if I could have that confirmed again, because then I would not have to table a motion. The second question, then, is that I have learned that we should immediately ask the Minister when we can expect that piece. I would also very much like to receive an answer to that question. That's the main point. Once we get this piece, we can have another good discussion. I agree with many other senators that this debate really needs to be conducted very well. I will be pleased if we as the First Chamber can have some kind of lead role in this, because it is about constitutional principles that we must take good care of. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have expressed concerns about acquiring, dealing with and analysing that bulk data. In fact, I understood from the Minister that it is a bit unusual that she says: yes, don't worry, because at the front is the TIB, and it has to approve. The counter argument against these concerns is that it is fortunately looked at in advance. But if we look at the proposals of the evaluation committee and see that these proposals have been embraced by the cabinet, then the consequence is that this control will disappear on the front. I see the Minister shaking no, but on the front it disappears, because when it comes to the evaluation committee, we get a dynamic review. And that's not in the front, it's in the process. Actually, that worries me a lot more. If the Minister's entire defence is based on the fact that it is being looked at in advance, which is being abolished, then the Minister is actually saying: Nicolaï, you are right, you are right to worry. So I'd like to get another response to that in the second term. I hope then that I can understand the extent to which you can deviate from Article 15 of the Convention 108+. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u97	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her first-term input. Of course, I would also like to thank her for the answers she has given. With this bill, careful improvements can be seen. Careful, because there's more to be done. That'll be next year. I have three comments and two questions. The first concerns the point that Mr Nicolaï has just mentioned. What happens to the cases of the evaluation committee? It is my appeal to the Minister to really take the time to do so. I have concluded that the Minister said that the opinions of the evaluation committee are a starting point, but not necessarily a one-on-one, because there are so many other things going on: the ruling of the European Court of Justice, the General Court of Auditors and so on. Will the Minister take the necessary time and space to process other insights? So that embrace doesn't mean take one-on-one. My second comment is that I am pleased that the Minister has said that there should not be a third intelligence and security service. I believe that was said in response to the NCTV. This means that the safeguards that apply to the AIVD and STIVD must remain. Other services outside the government are not allowed to collect all kinds of data on their own. In any case, there must be an explicit legal basis for this. The third point I am pleased about is that the TIB capacity has been increased and that there are no short-term problems. But in the services themselves, the minister said, it's pinching. I find that worrying, because it should not be so hard that between now and next year's legislative proposal, the services cannot do their job properly and would therefore be at stake for the state security of the Netherlands. Maybe the Minister can still respond to that. Then I have two more questions. One is about the term "foreseeability" in the bulk data. The Minister said that the provision is about the citizen, because the citizen cannot foresee it. Then I'll just take the report from the evaluation committee. On page 51 it says that in bulk acquisition, the target binding is generally less unambiguous, because sometimes specific uses can only be defined at the time of processing. In the case of information research, it is not always known in advance which persons and/or organisations, and therefore which specific data from the bulk data, are of interest. In the Committee's view, the demand for too sharp a definition presupposes that the acquisition is aimed at known threats with known targets. Bulk processing is often aimed at obtaining an information position in the event of a threat the targets of which are not yet known or but are partly known. However, according to the law, the services should also obtain bulk data as targeted as possible. The explanatory memorandum also contains too few references in the pending legislative amendment for an adequate application of this criterion in bulk processing. That is what the evaluation committee says about this bill. I didn't say it was a dead sparrow, but I did ask if it was a dead sparrow. Will the Minister respond to this? In practice, this legislative proposal adds something to this point, given the views of the evaluation committee. Then there's the last question. It's about parliament. The debate before dinner was about whether there could be binding supervision by the CTIVD. The minister said you shouldn't want to, because you're gonna put Parliament out of play. The president of the CTIVD said that there is currently no effective supervision. Maybe the Minister can respond to that again. But if dynamic supervision means dynamically that you have to carry out the supervision at the time itself, something has not gone well, of course you want to be able to intervene at that time. When you say that the ultimate responsibility lies with Parliament, isn't Parliament always too late? Or not, I'll ask the Minister. All in all, I think the very cautious steps are in the right direction. I am still waiting for these questions to be answered, but my group's tendency is to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u99	Thank you, Mr Koole. Then I give the floor to Mr Dittrich on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for answering the many questions raised in the first term. I have six points of my own. The first is the discussion about the retention period I had with the Minister on Article 27 of the Wiv. In Article 27, Parliament approved the retention of 1.5 years of data. We know that the CTIVD says that this retention period is sometimes exceeded without a proper selection of data, so I call it "relevant and irrelevant data." The minister says that's a difference of opinion about the law and the legal text. She says that we must learn to live with this difference of opinion, so I have noted it, and that this will soon be restored to the legislative proposal itself. Can we afford that? What if a judge says: what is the practice now is contrary to the legal text itself? We would like an answer from the Minister. I heard the Minister say that we do not want to highlight one thing in some sort of emergency legislation. I get that. On the other hand, we're at risk. I would like the Minister's reflection on that. Then there is the second point. I told you that, if you look at the history of law, we've made work visits to the supervisors and talked to the services, you're wondering why we don't just have one big supervisor with different rooms. The minister mentioned a Chinese wall and such. She said: there is no taboo on it, but what does it actually solve? In any case, I hope that discussion will come back to the legislative proposal itself. Otherwise, of course, we will be feeding them ourselves. What I do worry about, as others have already said, is that the evaluation committee has said about the TIB: we want to remove the proportionality test and cut it, and then real-time monitoring must lie with the CTIVD. The TIB says that we need to be able to ask questions to properly assess legality. I would like to say that my group is concerned about this. The TIB and the CTIVD are doing important work. As Members of Parliament, we cannot really get the finger out of all sorts of things. We must be able to trust that supervision is properly designed. That is a matter of concern and we shall return to it in the legal proceedings. I am very pleased that a legal analysis is being carried out and that it is being abandoned on the recent case law plus 108+ of the Council of Europe, the treaty that is to be ratified. The Chamber, the Parliament, at least the First Chamber, gets it before the legal process takes place. My question is, in my view, Mr Nicolaï asked this when we get that analysis. It's an analysis done by department officials. We are, of course, looking forward to that, but we will also present it to other bodies, so that we will have a lot of input to see how this is all going to work out. Of course, the Council of State will also have its say on this in due course. But I would like to talk to the Minister about this in good time before the legal process begins. I have noted that the ratification of the 108+ Treaty of the Council of Europe is proposed immediately after the summer in the form of a rich law. We'll wait and see. Thank you for that. I still get an answer to the question of who is actually journalists. I am very curious to hear the answer in relation to the other bill that is still in the Chamber and that we are discussing it with Minister Grapperhaus. My final point is that I have noted that the Minister has said, and I believe that Mr Koole referred to this as well, that although we have an important report from the Jones-Bos Committee, the evaluation committee, other insights are also, of course, taken into account in the examination of the legislative proposal. I have also heard the Minister say that there will of course be good discussions with the supervisors, so that all this can be included as input in the legislative proposal. That is what we are waiting for with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u101	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Rombouts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u102	Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. Has it perhaps escaped the Minister that there was at least one contribution this morning that might not have been caught in the cubes? What a horrible word, by the way. What are the viewers supposed to think through the live stream that we are filling blocks here? That contribution did include a three-tier compliment: one for the services which, according to that group, are of a high international standard, one for the supervisory committees with which our country is fortunate and one for a cabinet that has found a very reasonable balance in these proposals, when it comes to security and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u103	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I call Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u104	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's reply raised a number of further questions with our group. First, the Minister indicated that the NCTV cannot be classified as an intelligence service. According to the Minister, what are the differences between the NCTV and the AIVD, which does qualify the AIVD as an intelligence service and the NCTV is not? Second. Why does the AIVD and the STIVD fall under the CTIVD and does the Minister not think that supervision of the NCTV is necessary? Finally. How often has the Minister consulted with her colleague Minister Grapperhaus for Justice and Security on the activities of the NCTV in relation to the interfaces between the AIVD and the NCTV? I would like to give you a further explanation of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u105	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Finally, Mrs Gerkens has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister will understand that these legislative changes do not suddenly make us welcome this law. It remains an undesirable law for the SP Group for the reasons we mentioned in the first term. The changes that lie here are steps in the right direction, albeit briefly. I therefore welcome the Minister's commitment that it is the cabinet's commitment to maintain these elements in the evaluation. It is true, as the speakers before me have said, that the evaluation committee wants to weaken important monitoring elements. That's not supposed to happen, is it? However, there are still many concerns about the security of journalists and their sources, among others. The opinions in the evaluation are also based there. The Minister said it a bit and I also mentioned it in my first term: on the basis of the evaluation, we can conclude that the law is difficult to implement and that the law therefore needs to be amended. However, we can also say that the services must be organised and that they can carry out these statutory tasks properly. I think the Minister himself indicated that that pinches. Leaving bulk data is proof of that. Because, yeah, after a year and a half, you must have worked through that data, because you don't want to keep it anymore. What solutions does the Minister see? Mr. Chairman. I told you, the law needs to be better. We therefore call on the Cabinet to take up the evaluation and to do so in conjunction with the other insights that lie ahead, so that the balance we want may be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u107	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? No? Do you want five or ten minutes? It's gonna be ten minutes. Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u108	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will just walk by the speakers and try to be as complete as possible. Mr Van Hattem referred to the concept framework and the concept of wahabisalafism. I would like to emphasise once again that this is about the threat and not about a movement within a belief, or whatever. It's about the threat. If you're talking about salafism, it's important that the AIVD focus precisely on the group that is causing the threat. That's exactly why we're making it. That is why the word wahabi-salafism has been used. The threat determines the research assignment that the AIVD has. It then determines the use of powers. There may also be a threat beyond wahabi-salafism. It's being investigated. That's how it's done. Then the dead sparrow. That was about the consultative referendum. We have already had other debates on this. We took the outcome of that consultative referendum very seriously. It has led to this legislative change, to policy rules and to adaptation. But it didn't automatically lead to withdrawal. That was decided in the consultative referendum. A political weighting was then made. This political weighting has meant that we have adapted and built in additional safeguards. They are now ahead of this bill. I do not want to repeat the debate, but Mr Van Hattem specifically asked for it. I thought it would be good to explain it one more time from the cabinet's perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u110	I think I heard the Minister say at Mr Koole's questions that the referendum made a useful contribution to achieving this. My qualification for that is something else, but okay. The Minister said: even if it had not been for the referendum, we would probably have reached this conclusion on the basis of other studies, sources, reports and so on. I'll come back to the dead sparrow, so to speak. Has it really had added value in this way? The Minister says that it would have come to this in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u111	It is always very difficult to say afterwards: if that had not happened, something else would have happened. Of course, I can't make that hard. I also admitted to Mr Koole that, because of the outcome of the referendum, we have looked again very carefully at the concerns of those who voted against. Of course, you can't deduce that one-on-one from the result, but we analyzed that they were mainly in the protection of data and the careful handling of people's data. That is why we have improved these guarantees. Same for data sharing with foreign services. That's what happened. Those improvements have been made. I believe that sufficient care has already been taken in the law and in the way the services operate, but I do think that it has added value to better anchor these safeguards, also legally, as requested by the Recourt motion later. Would that have happened if you hadn't? We have a system in which we often talk about it. We have external supervisors and independent supervisors who point to certain elements. So I guess that's what happened, but of course I can't make that happen. It was not necessary, because it had already happened on the cabinet's own initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u112	Then the point remains that the repeal of the law would have been more purer. Apart from that discussion: in order to come to this new legislative amendment, the Minister felt that an internet consultation was sufficient. On the other hand, we always see the Minister coming up with all kinds of initiatives about civil fora, festivals of democracy, etc. Now, the niche instrument of internet consultation was sufficient to involve society and citizens. Can the Minister explain again why an internet consultation should be sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u113	The legislative proposal before us is in itself a clear proposal. It was also the outcome of the consultative referendum. The People's Assembly is, of course, fully involved, as every legislative change involves the people's representatives. Internet consultation is standard part of the way we deal with laws and legal changes in the Netherlands. In doing so, all relevant parties shall be given the opportunity to provide input in advance. That is quite different from civic participation. Of this, I think that you should weigh up every time, and I think that this is also important from the point of view of my responsibility to, for example, the other public authorities, which always have a good look at how citizens are involved at the front. We often have a debate about this in this Chamber when it comes to the Environment Act, which brings about a substantial improvement in this respect for involving citizens on the front. I myself do not think that this bill lends itself to adding anything to the process we are going through for a legislative proposal and a legislative amendment. Those were Mr Van Hattem's questions. Then I come to Mr Nicolaï. I owed him an answer on the Convention 108+. He asked in what article is the exception that we are applying now. That exception is contained in Article 11 (3). There is the exception for national security. This makes it explicitly possible, for national security reasons, to make an exception to Article 15 (2) (c) referred to by Mr Nicolaï. The current legal system is part of that exception clause. For example, we have ruled on this Convention 108+, which we are going to ratify. The bill on that is coming. Let me now turn to Mr Nicolaï's comment on my first-term commitment. I'd like to clarify something. I said that we are doing an analysis of the case law anyway. I think it'll be ready after the summer. I'd like to share that with the Room, too. "After the summer," that means well before there is even a next bill to change the Wiv. As far as ratification is concerned, that is also a bill that comes after the summer. Of course, the Court can expect an explanation on this point in the explanatory memorandum to that approval law. Through these two pathways, the legal analysis of the statements and the draft national law for the Convention 108+, I think Mr Nicolaï gets the insight he wants to have. Mr Dittrich also asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u114	I understand that a legal analysis is being made, but I think my question was that Mr Dittrich's question is as follows. Is this an analysis of whether the proposal of the evaluation committee is in line with that case-law and, where appropriate, with the provisions of the Convention 108+?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u115	It is an analysis of the case law, of the possible effects of legislation on it and also of what is going on around the legislation. I do not rule out the possibility of making a link with the evaluation committee, but I do not want to anticipate that. That analysis hasn't come up yet. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u116	I hear the minister say, "I'm not ruling it out." However, the question is what would be wrong if this analysis were to be taken into account as to whether the proposal of the evaluation committee is in line with the results of the analysis of case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u117	There's nothing against that. Mr Nicolaï can probably do that very well himself, but the report of the evaluation committee is there. The cabinet's proposal on how to deal with this, on what kind of legislative amendment it leads to and on exactly how we shape it in the law, is not yet there. I don't want to create some kind of intermediate step on the way to the law amendment right now. That's the reservation I'm making. That is why it seemed to me to be purer to simply give a legal analysis of the case law and not to make the comparison with the report immediately. The report is from the evaluation committee. The cabinet has said that this report is very relevant and also determines the direction of the legislative change. But, of course, we still have to work that out on parts. That is why this case law is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u118	I don't quite understand what the Minister's being so hard about right now. There's a report from the evaluation committee. Two weeks ago, a new ruling was issued by the European Court of Justice. In that case, it is extremely important for us as a Chamber to know what impact this has, if any, on the proposal of the evaluation committee. Why couldn't the Minister promise that this will be taken into account in the analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u119	Because, in my view, it could be particularly relevant to both current and future legislation. That's what I'd like to focus on. Of course, the evaluation report is very relevant to that. I make a promise that you will receive your legal analysis. I'd be happy to look at it with a slanted eye, so you can make that comparison. But I do not want to repeat the assessment of the evaluation committee, other than when we come up with a legislative amendment. That was the reservation I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u120	I would like to add my voice to Mr Nicolaï. We have all received a letter from Professor Dommering, who was on the evaluation committee, analysing recent case law. He himself links the recommendations of the evaluation committee. We know there are other opinions about it. For us as MPs and as controllers of government policy, it is important that we can weigh all that. That is why I think Mr Nicolaï has a good point when he says that it must be broader than the Minister just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u121	I understand that, but my point is that we cannot have a law here and we cannot table a legislative amendment that would be contrary to European case law. I will try to make that clear in the letter, because apparently I am not making it clear enough here. And then it all comes together, without me having to have individual views about a part of the evaluation report. I'm trying to avoid that detour. But I will try to serve the Chamber on this point, because of course Mr Dittrich is right. But I hope that he is somewhat reassured by what I have just said. Mr. Chairman. That was in response to Mr Nicolaï's question, which was supplemented by Mr Dittrich. Then Mr Nicolaï argued that, as a result of the opinions of the evaluation committee, there might be a change in the test of the TIB on the front, i.e. in the case of the acquisition. But I would like to correct or clarify two things. The TIB indeed tests at the front when acquiring. Taps, hacks, EYE and bulk are all things that the TIB does in front. The evaluation committee said at that time: sometimes it is a little vague, so make the separation between acquiring and processing that is using.................................................................................................................................................................................................. There are still things on parts at the TIB that are actually about using, and the law says that the TIB is testing at the front. The Committee therefore states that when using data, not the TIB at the front, but the dynamic supervision of the CTIVD is the appropriate means. That's what the ECW clarifies. It says: at that point in the law a bit of a grey area has been created; you could clarify that and then you always have the TIB at the front and the CTIVD from the moment it is processed and used. And that's what they call "dynamic surveillance." I don't know how that sounds to you, but it doesn't mean that from the moment the burden is granted and the permission is given to use a particular instrument, it is no longer ex ante supervision, but supervision during the performance of the service's work and afterwards. And then it's from the CTIVD. So that's the change. So the integrated system remains completely intact, but the committee says: clarify this, because that actually works better in practice. But again, there's no bill for that yet. And that's what the supervisors also have views about and what we should be talking about with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u122	Two questions about this. The Minister says that in the future the TIB should look mainly at the acquisition, and the processing is then done by the CTIVD. But in order to be able to test in advance, you sometimes need to know what is then done with that data. For example, how long will these data be stored? So you need to get data on the processing in order to be able to judge the acquisition. This is being pulled apart, but I can imagine that the TIB would like to ask for the processing to be able to judge the acquisition properly. The second directly related question is: will the TIB still be able to do so until there may be a change to this point? The current legislation and, if adopted, the following legislation on the basis of this bill apply. This means that the TIB can still ask things about the processing to be able to properly assess whether you need to give prior consent or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u123	Mr Koole has two points. The first is what the TIB may ask the service to clarify why the burden is actually being applied for and whether the TIB can legally give an affirmative opinion. Of course, the Committee of Inquiry wants to be able to ask questions about this. I understand that very well. I think that, in many cases, that can and would not change because of this change. Mr Koole's second point concerns powers that lie with the TIB in the current law, namely selection and GDA in research assignment-oriented interception. That is now with the TIB and that is not actually acquiring, but processing or using. That is what is laid down in the law, but the question is whether it makes any sense. In any case, the evaluation committee has said that you should not do that second part with the TIB but with the CTIVD, because that is actually monitoring at the implementation stage and is better suited to the tasks assigned to the CTIVD. If there is to be a law amendment that is accepted, then that does not change at the first point, that the TIB still has to be able to ask certain questions for good reasons in order to reach a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u124	Thank you. So that means that that second part will remain in place for the time being and the TIB can continue to act as it has done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u125	In fact, in this proposal, the law does not change on the second point I mentioned. As far as I am concerned, even if we were to come to the conclusion that it is better, we would still have to look at how the TIB should have certain knowledge in order to give that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u126	Mr Nicolaï has just one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u127	I am glad that the Minister makes it clear that the TIB is still allowed to ask questions, because I got a bit of the idea that I shouldn't do that anymore. If you ask questions, you take them into consideration as well. The other point is that the Minister is now actually admitting what I said. If the proposals of the evaluation committee are followed, a part of the TIB's powers will be cut off, namely that eye interception. The Minister now says that it is actually processing and does not belong there. That's gonna go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u128	Yeah, but the system's still under surveillance. That's what I meant by what I said at the very beginning of my input. We have a good supervisor. I thank Mr Rombouts for his compliments. We have a robust system, from before, to during and afterwards. Also with the proposals of the evaluation committee, nothing changes the whole of the monitoring, but indeed, if we follow the evaluation committee to the letter, certain elements, which I have just mentioned, would shift from the processing of the research assignment-oriented interception, the eye-interception, from TIB to CTIVD. That's right. But it doesn't disappear into a black hole or anything. It moves from one supervisor to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u129	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u130	Can I hear from the Secretary of State the following? We'd have dynamic surveillance going to the CTIVD. What if they say that we have to stop immediately? That's what I've heard recently in the conversations with the people. Is that a recommendation or should it be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u131	If there is supervision during the exercise of a certain power and the supervisor considers that it cannot and says that there is a need to stop, the service will stop immediately in 99% of cases. Perhaps in 1% of cases they say: well, dear supervisor, you think we should stop; that is very difficult for us, because our opinion is that we really need to go through with this in the perspective of national security. But then the minister will have to go to the CIVD. That will then have to be resolved. That is why I said: Parliament is ultimately the highest supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u132	We've already discussed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u133	In 99% of cases, it will automatically lead to the opinion of the CTIVD, but in one case if it is not, it will always be about the major interests of national security........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. Let me see if I have had Mr Nicolaï's questions. I think that is the case. The interruption debate brought me to Mr Koole's point. He quoted the president of the CTIVD from an interview, I think, NRC. The quote he quoted here was: "effective supervision is out of the question." Following on from the reply I just gave to Mr Nicolaï, I really want to say that the CTIVD is watching in real time. The CTIVD has the key to the front door and the back door, I'd say. They're keeping the office with the services. I don't know a supervisor elsewhere with such a strong position. There is therefore effective and very robust supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u134	Very briefly. Then how do you explain the statement of the president of the CTIVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u135	I find that complicated, because I didn't do that interview myself. The regulators may simply express their opinion................................................................................................................................................................................ I assume that it was in the context of the opinions of the evaluation committee and the possible follow-up given by the cabinet. Given the research reports that have separated the CTIVD, there can only be one conclusion and that is that very effective monitoring is being carried out. Let's see. Mr Koole felt it was worrying that I had said that it was a bit tricky with the services. I realized that when I said it. It is true that it is pinching, but I can also say that they can carry out the tasks they have to perform in the context of national security. I also said it because, of course, we have seen that the General Court has found that it has really pinched when the law is introduced. However, the General Court also agreed with the conclusion that this does not affect national security. So we didn't go through some kind of lower limit, but it's not like we're sitting nice and spacious in that jacket. So we must always look very closely at this, and that is also the responsibility of Mr Bijleveld and myself, to the operational work and to what is changing. In my first term I mentioned a number of threats. We have to adapt to that. If necessary, Mr. Bijleveld and I will have to take care of it. Then it means that there must be money and manpower. So we keep a very close eye on that. We are also responsible for this. We work within the system of annual plans, annual reports and so on. I thought Mr Koole was still early... Let me see where I have that question. When I get to your colleague De Vries, I'll talk about the NCTV. How much time do we have to take for the new law change? I think we just need to take as much time as is necessary for, as I said, the care, the rule of law, the feasibility and the privacy requirements. I really want to do that very carefully. We take the report of the evaluation committee as a starting point. We will involve all other relevant issues, including, of course, the discussions we will have with the supervisors. I can assume that the reality will be that we can now do a lot of pre-work, but that the new bill will be submitted by a new cabinet. At least that's what I'm assuming. Then I'll be with Mr Dittrich. Let's see if I haven't forgotten something. I don't think so. Mr Dittrich referred to Rule 27. I would like to say one more thing about the retention period. I said, there's a difference of opinion. However, that is not so much about the deadline. The article also sets out the time frame within which data should be assessed for relevance. It's not a maximum retention period. It is a time limit that says: within that time limit you must take the relevance test. That's what the services do. Data that have been declared relevant are included in the meaning regime and can therefore be retained even after the year and a half. So the year and a half looks at whether you have tested for relevance. Once that has been done, all non-relevant data must be destroyed after one and a half years. The difference of insight is therefore about the moment you take that relevance test and considers that the whole set is relevant. That's what the difference of opinion is about. I also promised Mr Dittrich that he would return to the concept of journalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u136	Just a little bit more about that difference of opinion. You have said that we must learn to live with it until we continue to work it out. My question is, how does a judge deal with that? A difference of opinion can lead a judge to say: Minister, as it happens now, it cannot, because it is contra empty, it is contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u137	That is not my judgment and not the judgment of the cabinet, but I cannot speak in front of a judge. So I can only explain how we have interpreted and applied the law. The relevant assessment was made on this subject. For this reason, a large part of the datasets has been destroyed or partially destroyed. You therefore have a very limited part left and the judgment on it is what it is. But of course, I don't know how a judge judges that. But this is how we look at it. The supervisor therefore has a different explanation on that point. Mr Dittrich also raised another issue in his question on the concept of journalist. I believe that this is an issue which is currently being discussed in this Chamber and which you are discussing with Minister Grapperhaus. We did take a good look at it. Journalist is not a closed profession if, for example, lawyers are. You just are or aren't, but journalists don't. At that time, the legal treatment also did not include a legal definition of the term "journalist" in the Wiv. So it's not in there either, but the Wiv does use the term. We said at the time: we are in line with the interpretation given to it in the case law of the European Court of Justice. I think that is logical, precisely because of the fundamental human rights interest. That is why, in my view, it makes sense to join the European Court of Human Rights. This can change the meaning of the concept and thus the scope of the proposed scheme with the case law available at the ECHR. In the context of the scope of the law and in the context of the action of the services, we can therefore see whether this concept is being properly applied. I have just looked at the matter of Mr Grapperhaus. He sent a letter to the Chamber on 12 May last, and I understand that he will introduce a penalty exclusion ground on the exit ban for journalists, referring to the use of the term "journalist" in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The House has to assess this particularly in the debate with Mr Grapperhaus, but I think it is actually running around again. Let me see if I have any other points from Mr Dittrich. I just promised that legal analysis, and we talked about the journalists. I think that we have also discussed the other two points. I would have heard Mr Rombouts' compliments, of course, but yes: do you compliment yourself with a smile? I would like to come back to this, and I am sure that the services and supervisors have heard Mr Rombouts' input. Thank you very much! Mr. Otten... Excuse me, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u138	Mr De Vries!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u139	Indeed, Mr De Vries. Sorry, it says "Otten," but it is the Otten Group and Mr De Vries in there. He actually had some further questions, because I had said that NCTV is not an intelligence service and that we really shouldn't be. There is, of course, supervision of the NCTV, because the Dutch Data Protection Authority is the relevant controller when it comes to data processing. But the NCTV has a completely different task. It is primarily a coordinating body. That's how the NCTV was founded at the time. The NCTV also does a lot of analytical work and has access to information from the services. Furthermore, the NCTV is acting in the sense of taking action, but it cannot do so in the way that the services can. The services can do real research on individuals and organisations, and they can do so secretly. On the basis of the Wiv they can therefore acquire information and possibly also establish it, and the NCTV cannot do all that. You don't have to, because there are two other services for that. They really have a different purpose. There are, of course, contacts between the services and the NCTV and also contacts between the leaders responsible. So there is cooperation, but there is a very different legal basis. They have different tasks and a different way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u140	Is it true that NCTV will be covered by the Convention 108+?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u141	That is what Mr Nicolaï is asking me about. I don't think so. I think it looks at the intelligence and security services, but I have to check that out. Maybe so, but I need to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u142	This was a new question, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u143	Yes, it was a new question indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u144	He should have put it in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u145	Yeah, but it's a really good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u146	With your permission. I come to the point because there is a reaction to Mr De Vries. I think the Minister's right when she says it's a completely different service. But the Convention 108+ does not refer to security services or intelligence services. He just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u147	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u148	... about data processing by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u149	That's why I don't know. I'm gonna try and figure that out before the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u150	Otherwise, you might be able to send a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u151	No, no, Mr. Chairman. That would be such a short letter. It's just a yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u152	Well, short letters are very popular here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u153	In the meantime, I can tell you that the NCTV is indeed covered. Mr Nicolaï is right: the NCTV is covered by the Convention 108. And not under the exception, I say right away. Those were Mr De Vries' questions. Fortunately, Mrs Gerkens thinks that this law is a small step in the right direction. As I said in the first term, what we're now amending in the law, that's what we're keeping in mind. As far as I am concerned, if there is a legislative amendment to make further improvements, we will continue to maintain or improve this in terms of focus, international cooperation and so on. That's the direction we want to take. I would like to say to Mrs Gerkens that I do not read the report of the evaluation committee at all. I see that the evaluation committee wants to make improvements on the whole spectrum, including safeguards on privacy. She called it a weakening of the law, but that's really not how I see it. That is not at all the reading I have on the report. The services need to be organized. Yes, but, for example, in the assessment of bulk, as I said to Mr Dittrich, it is not a question of the services being out of order. It's what the services do. Only they have a different final judgment on that part than the CTIVD. Finally. It is precisely for bulk that it is important to have these safeguards. That is what I would like to say to Mrs Gerkens. I think she agrees with me. Perhaps you can still talk about: how exactly should these safeguards be applied? But I believe that we can make a major improvement for bulk and perhaps improve it even further. I think that's what worries her. I also think it is very important that we do that. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-8.u155	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. We came to the end of the meeting. I thank all Members, I thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and I thank the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
