ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Commission's 'Fit for 55' climate package. We have the pleasure of having four directors in trade union K: the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State and the Secretary of State for Finance. I'd like to welcome them. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with you that in the first period we can ask each other four questions and that five questions can be asked to the directors. I would like to be flexible once again if you can keep it short and powerful, but let's just stick to this. In the first period, therefore, we have four questions and/or comments in the direction of each other and five questions and/or comments in the direction of the directors. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. At the UN in 1972 they said: we only have ten years left to stop a climate catastrophe. At the same UN, they said in 2007 that if we do not act before 2012, it will be too late. Mr. Chairman. If it had been up to the climate crazies, humanity would have been extinct several times. That's how we've been scared over and over again for decades. We are frightened that the earth would perish unless we fill our land with wind turbines, burn trees in biomass plants and suffer cold in climate-neutral homes. We've been scared, then pushed far-reaching climate policy down the throat. It is climate policy that is impoverishing us and that severely restricts our freedom from how we want to live here. Mr. Chairman. Fit for 55, that's what Timmermans' climate package is called. It may sound like an innocent 55-plus fitness program, but in practice it is a comprehensive plan to make the whole EU climate neutral. It is plans that will change the Netherlands disastrously. Our current way of living, living, eating and travelling; everything becomes more expensive and ultimately priceless. Mr. Chairman. Do you want to keep driving your petrol or diesel car? Well, as long as you can afford it, because Timmermans' plans increase the price of a liter even further. And would you like to go on a flight with the family once a year? Again, as long as you can afford it, because Timmermans' plans also make the airline tickets go up. At least that does not apply to Timmermans himself and his climate bobos, his fellow bobos. Because while the citizens are practically being chased out of the plane, they allow themselves to fly around the world in their expensive, brand-new private jets. It's really too embarrassing for words. And that, of course, is at the expense of the citizens, who will not be able to pay for their own plane tickets. The arrogance of these EU bureaucrats is really shameless. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, therefore, citizens are being driven on all sides under the guise of climate costs, as a result of Timmermans' plans. Fruit and vegetables will be more expensive, a piece of meat will be priceless and the energy bill will go up even further. The proceeds of all these new taxes and charges will be redistributed to the EU through a so-called social justice fund, or a social climate fund as it is called. And "redistributed" in practice means that Dutch households, in addition to their own rising burdens, also have to pay for climate policy in Eastern and Southern Europe. In other words, climate policy as a redistribution mechanism. In Brussels they call it "solidarity," but in the Netherlands this means impoverishment. Timmermans' climate madness will ruin our households.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	An interruption by Mr Thijssen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our own KNMI said earlier this week that the Netherlands as we know it is under threat and that sea level is at risk of rising by 1.2 meters. I take that very seriously, and I think that is why we need to fight to keep our beloved Netherlands above water and stop climate change. I do not know if we will agree with the PVV today, but what I do want to ask is this. Can we not join forces and take all the measures that will ensure that the cabinet compensates for them, so that this climate policy will make their lives better for ordinary citizens? Can the PvdA and the PVV work together to ensure that fair policies are pursued?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yes, Mr President, someone who, as Mr Thijssen does, is going to quote the KNMI right now, that is, of course, very doubtful. The KNMI should be an independent institution. Today we have read in the newspaper that the RMI has been working together with, for example, the wind lobby, of which Mr Thijssen is such a big fan. The fact that the KNMI in reports on the health effects of wind turbines has left its ears hanging in the wind lobby is, of course, very doubtful. Mr Thijssen then referred to another report by the KNMI on rising sea levels. It is very sad that he tells half the story, as in so many other debates. Because when we look at the facts, they're like this. Our sea level does not rise faster, but rises by less than 2 millimeters a year. Those are the actual observations. These observations are not even the least bad scenario of the IPCC. But what does the KNMI do in the report? I've got the graph right here. The 1.2 meter sea level rise they are talking about is even worse than the worst scenario in the IPCC report, which the IPCC itself says is never going to happen; that is so unrealistic that it is never going to happen. And exactly that figure, that 1.2 meters, very unrealistic, is now quoted by Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	What are you gonna do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr Thijssen. No? You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	It is also striking that Mr Thijssen does not have a follow-up question. Mr. Chairman. I told you, Timmermans' climate madness will put households right into poverty. And then, of course, the question: why? Why this climate policy now? Why the green terror now? Because we in the Netherlands are responsible for less than half a percent of global CO emissions. What we, as the Netherlands, emit in a whole year, a country such as China has been out in less than a week. And what we save from emissions by going off the gas massively, for many tens of thousands of euros per house, China emits in just three hours. In just three hours! In other words, everything that the Netherlands does or does not do about climate policy will make no difference at global level. Certainly not when coal power stations are shut down here, while hundreds are being built up in Asia. And certainly not if we all have to get rid of gas massively here, while the rest of the world is only going to use more gas. And certainly not if we are going to burn trees here in biomass plants, where not less, but more CO2 is released. Look, Mr President, that's how we see this whole climate policy: it's all bound up with contradictions. So that's what the citizens pay for. The climate effect is negligible: zero. The effect on the wallet is huge. This Secretary of State for the VVD House is letting it all happen. This secretary of state might as well have been from GroenLinks: so much she runs on Mr Timmermans' leash. The conclusion of the PVV is as follows. We want to go completely "Fit for 55" package. We want a fit, safe, healthy and prosperous Netherlands. That's why the PVV says get out of here with your climate scaremongery, get out with your green terror. And certainly: get out of here with your unelected EU bureaucrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. In my group, I was asked whether I am also about fitness these days. When it comes to Fit for 55, in combination with Timmermans, something goes wrong in my head. I would actually like to ask the government first: can they ensure that talking about climate policy in the European sense is just going to happen in normal human language? The point is that we come up with something else for this kind of jargon. When it comes to support and that sort of thing, I think you should just say what it says. So today we are talking about the climate package from Brussels. This does not solve anything when it comes to ambitions that we need and addressing the problems we see. It is the policy of many subsidies to the polluting industry, the industry that brought us into this climate crisis, and of a high bill for the inhabitants of the Member States, if, for example, they need a car to go to work or not live in a sustainable or isolated home. A solution for shareholders of coal power plants, but no solution for those who have a high energy bill, and certainly not for those who can't do anything about that high energy bill because they live in a wind-up house of some cottage milker. This package has 1,200 pages. Yesterday, Mr Bontenbal said how many pages per minute that would be if we were to discuss them in this way. It is about renewable energy, biomass, something we all know should be yesterday's. It's about not saving enough energy if you asked the SP Group. It is about the energy sector, which is in fact excluded from this whole package. It's about air traffic, road traffic, shipping, agriculture, housing. It's about a lot, and it's not that healthy anywhere. So much, and not just in this short time, but in the Brussels administration case. What interests prevail? How can we see exactly what our government is doing there? This package is still very much based on the premise that this government supports that taxing people could provoke behavioral improvements, especially taxing residents. Of course, we should not talk about taxes for the big industry. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he's finally got some hard evidence for that. Where did the increase in energy taxation for people living in an unsustainable home lead? Is there more isolated, or has it just been passing on the bill of people who have no influence on that house, who can't make it more sustainable? The latter is the analysis of the SP. It would be the old solution to the old problem, and that would not take us any further. This package lacks the analysis of how we got into the climate crisis. This analysis gives the IPCC's report: it is based on industrialisation, globalisation and neoliberalism. Multinationals who can go on endlessly to win raw materials everywhere for their own profits. Capping of jungles for palm oil and soya. And then we get the story of the combination bioenergy, the new biomass. We're all gonna embrace that, but there's nothing sustainable about that, because for that the jungle is still being cut down. Let's not do that! I'm asking the government to stop doing that. It is the ideology that you should not tackle the pricing of flies via kerosene, because then you might get the profits of KLM. No, we tax everyone on their plane ticket, including those who have to save hard to get on a much-needed holiday once every two or three years. Timmermans' plans, like the climate approach of recent years, are insufficient for the goals. It is mainly free money for multinationals, paid by the residents. There's gotta be another way. We really want four things to be different, and I would like to ask the government whether it intends to do so in Brussels. We don't want our money to go to private profits. If there is to be investment somewhere to make an energy change, it must be for the benefit of all of us. Look at the hydrogen plans that were on display at Nieuwsuur last week. Gasunie is concerned about who we are giving the key to this billion-dollar injection. I call on the government to share those plans and take care of them with the Chamber, but make sure that the key and the winnings don't end up with Shell. We made that mistake in the 1960s when we were going to win gas in Groningen, and we shouldn't make it again. The same applies to money coming from Brussels. Get control and get targets. The second is: step away from the conjunction ambition. I just told you, that's the new biomass of the future. The third is: regulate the market. If we know it's devastating to invest in fossil industry, don't do it anymore. The International Energy Agency is calling us, and that is not just a call. It's about 5,000 billion a year in investments in the fossil industry. We can make it more sustainable until we weigh one, but if we do not do anything about it and if we do not have a solution, then we are not going to get anything. Mr President, last but not least, look at the whole world. We may soon be climate neutral or we may be on our way there with Timmermans' plans, but in the meantime, if the jungle has been cut down for the soy and palm oil we use for so-called climate neutral here, then the earth hasn't gotten anywhere with it. On the contrary, we'll get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I have the honour to speak on behalf of Mrs Simons of BET1 today. Fit for 55 would have been a nice package if we had lived in 1990. We could have taken the necessary steps to stay below 1.5 degrees at a moderate pace. Decades, however, did not happen at all for the climate. Although there are now a few small steps ahead, I would like to mention, for example, the border levy, the social climate fund and a small step in the taxation of kerosene, but systemic errors that drive the climate and nature crisis remain. It's like trying to walk up on an escalator going down. Mr. Chairman. I'll mention four system errors. The first: the main objective of the "Fit for 55" package is a 55% reduction in 2030. It does not take sufficient account of climate justice. An above-average effort is needed to take account of the hugely high historical emissions from the Netherlands, the fourth richest country in the world, and also to compensate poorer countries. We take too much risk with only 67% chance of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. Would you cross a highway if you had 67% chance of survival? I don't. Where is the precautionary principle that we have been calling for since 1996? That still excludes the factor of international justice and the post unexpected, such as the tipping points. I call the melting permafrost and the decline of the Amazon. This reduction target has not been taken into account. We need to take much less risk of exceeding that 1.5 degree. Countries such as Denmark, Finland, Germany and the United Kingdom do. They'll be at least 65% by 2030. So my question is: is the Netherlands prepared to argue in the EU for an increased target, with which we are actually committed to a maximum of 1.5 degrees? The cost-effectiveness that has been carefully advocated by the cabinet also shows: the more you do now, the cheaper it is. When will the Netherlands join these European leaders? As in the national budget, the cabinet now leaves in the letter again in the middle whether the stakes are at 1.5 degrees or 2 degrees, while the difference between them is literally life-size. Can the cabinet guarantee that it will continue to make maximum efforts for the 1.5 degree target? Mr. Chairman. The second system error is the conflicting EU policy. Look at the agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy is a continuation of business as usual with a green cover paper and is fixed until 2027. Now we see a plan that is also about agriculture. My question is, what are we gonna do? Are we really going to make that shift to fewer animals, significantly less methane emissions, a sustainable agriculture and a good sandwich for the farmer, or are we going to continue to muddle with the common agricultural policy and business as usual? How will the Netherlands finally make a commitment to this protein transition? Because if you don't eat meat for two days, that's the same thing as 2 million cars off the road in terms of emission reduction. So my question is: will the Dutch commitment also be reduced? Mr. Chairman. Then the third system error: calculation tricks. I'm just pointing to biomass again. According to the EU, it is still sustainable to burn trees on paper. In the meantime, biomass plants increase the concentration of CO in the atmosphere. The Chamber adopted the Party for Animals' motion to call for real biomass emissions to be counted in the EU. We now see nothing of that in the government's commitment. What about the execution of the motion? Is the Minister prepared to work to exclude biomass from the Renewable Energy Directive? Finally, Mr President. I see an interruption coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	Yes, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	I just have a question about cutting down meat. You mentioned that and asked a question about it. How is the government supposed to do that? How do you see that? Should there be a ban on meat or a ban on meat consumption? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	One of the very effective measures is to increase VAT on meat. At European level, this can also happen now. That would therefore be one of the measures. And, of course, you could also reduce meat consumption in other ways, for example by reducing the number of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	But does the Party for Animals assume that there is a fence around the Netherlands? Does Mrs Teunissen think that if we take the animals out of here and then we produce less meat here, then the meat will not enter? Of course, that's a very strange illusion, because we have shipping, we have planes. There is then simply meat coming here from other countries, which produce far less sustainable meat than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yeah, so we're gonna have to deal with it mostly on the demand side. So we have to make sure that there is less demand for meat. How do you do that? One of the reasons why there is now a great deal of demand for meat is that meat is very cheap, and vegetable proteins, plant alternatives are very expensive. For example, if you adjust this with VAT, you will see that the demand for healthy and plant products increases. And, of course, we also have these endless, non-binding agricultural subsidies from the EU. At the moment, they are simply subsidising meat production in Europe. That also makes the meat so cheap. So if we stop doing so and redirect agricultural subsidies to the crop transition and to sustainable agriculture, you will see that this also reduces meat consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u19	Two things. So you're going to deny people on Kanaleneiland in Utrecht, in the Rivierenwijk in Deventer, or in Bos en Lommer in Amsterdam? People there should actually turn every dime to make sure that they can buy food at all, or to make sure that their children go out with breakfast. These people are glad they can buy that affordable meat. But you want the price of that meat higher, so that those people are going to buy even less meat. Because I don't think the people who have enough money even care if a steak, I know, costs €8 or €9. That doesn't matter to those people with enough money. The people in the neighborhoods I just mentioned are the people you're going to hit with the VAT increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u20	No. I have already given the answer, but I do not think Mrs Van der Plas will listen. I said that the Animal Party is in favour of greening the tax system. This means that we are going to make products cheaper that are healthy and that are less seizing on the earth. That is what we need. So people with a small scholarship don't get hit at all. My point is that meat is currently far too cheap compared to the damage caused by meat production. And in the end, we pay for all that damage, including the poorest people. 'Cause we all have to figure it out. We must solve this problem of manure here in the Netherlands, and the problem of nitrogen. Do you know how much that costs? That costs billions! That's the cost we're gonna charge those poor people, too. So it is also in the interests of low-income people, but also in the interests of farmers that meat becomes more expensive. I find it really incomprehensible that Mrs Van der Plas, with all due respect, has a rather short-sighted view of this area. For in the long term it is really better for everyone if we switch to more plant: for the earth, for the farmers, for the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u22	You explain my vision. I'm just asking you a question. I ask you to make the meat more expensive for the people with a tight wallet. Then you put down my vision, which is not my vision at all. It was just a question. But I am glad to hear Mrs Teunissen say that she is no longer going for the meat tax. I heard her say that. It is going to make plant products cheaper, and it is not going to make meat more expensive. I think that's very good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u23	I would like to, but Mrs Van der Plas has really not listened very carefully. I said that we are in favour of greening the tax system. This means that we are going to make meat more expensive, but it also means that other products are going to be much cheaper. So, on balance, that doesn't make people go backwards. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the fourth and last system error in the "Fit for 55" package I wanted to name. That is the basic objective of economic growth in itself. The Green Deal and this package were presented as a growth strategy. One still dares not recognise that infinite growth on a planet with a finite amount of raw materials does not exist. The basis of the package is already at odds with what is needed to tackle the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis in a coherent manner. Think of irresponsible raw material extraction, including for the energy transition, but also deforestation due to globalisation and free trade agreements, the EU's policy of untiringly focusing on free trade. As long as we don't tackle the ecological surplus, we're in danger. My final question to the government is therefore: where is the plan to trade the economy, with growth as its own goal, for an economy within the capacity of the earth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u25	When I look at these kinds of plans as they lie there, the first thing that always comes to mind is: what does this kind of plan mean for the daily life of my neighbors Henk and Bertina or of my good acquaintances Hendrik and Elsemarie? Of course, I see that we have to get rid of fossil fuels and that it's good to do things more sustainable when you look at the long term, but I'm also looking at the lives of these people tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next year. My question to Mrs Teunissen: do you have such thoughts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u26	Well, I actually find it a little weird to ask that question to the Party for Animals. Mrs Leijten also said it: there is no analysis of how we ended up in the climate crisis. This has not been done by parties such as the Animal Party or the SP, but by parties who have constantly and for years been advocating the economic growth model, free trade, combating climate change measures. I don't think your party is ambitious in that either. The result is that, at the last minute, we must now take all kinds of disastrous measures. Of course, we must ensure that this is done in a just way. I have also mentioned the social climate fund as one of the positive points of this story in my contribution. Of course we need that, of course we need to abolish fossil subsidies for the big companies and help the energy transition and help poor people. So there are all kinds of possibilities in that. But I do want to correct that we have got into these problems by parties such as VVD and CDA, but also your party, which have been advocating business as usual for years, which means that we now have no alternatives to, let me just mention, gas, which means that we now have these huge gas prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u27	With all due respect, this is absolutely not an answer to my question. You can say anything about what went wrong in the past. That's what I say to my father. But at least we're still living together nicely, and you always have to look ahead. I'm standing here looking forward. My very specific question is: does Mrs Teunissen ever look at the people I mentioned, such as the overneighbors or good acquaintances? What do these measures mean for them and their lives, and not in 30 or 40 years' time, but in the very short term? Do you have the idea that that can be hugely profound, that people can't go to work normally anymore, and so on? I don't need that you-bake answer, it may be answered with "yes" or "no," but I would like to know what Mrs Teunissen has in mind when she looks at these kinds of plans, just for normal, concrete people who are in the middle segment of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am pleased that Mr Stoffer is also looking forward. I hope that he, like the Animal Party, will look a little further forward than the interests of people in the short term, but also towards the longer term. Of course, as I have just said, we must ensure that this transition is fair. I see many positive points in the Fit for 55 package, such as the Social Climate Fund. What I have a problem with is Mr Stoffer's short-sightedness in the sense that... We have already seen in Limburg what climate does to people. Thousands of homes have been destroyed by flooding. We're just gonna get more. Take last week's report: rising sea levels from 1 to 1.2 metres will have enormous consequences for people's homes, for the protection of those homes. We're facing the threat of flooding. That climate damage is going to cost so much... As a society, we can hardly cough that up. We must prevent people from ultimately getting hurt by climate damage. That's why these plans are so important now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u29	I insist that these things are far away. There's no answer to my question. But it is clear to me that we do not agree on this today. I've been accused of a lot of things, but I'm gonna have my own story coming up. We'll show you we're not shortsighted. But I think you should be practical in this, too, is my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Erkens of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u31	One question to my colleague Teunissen. The Party for Animals has a number of fundamental criticisms from its point of view about Fit for 55. A genuine question: are you going to look at this package constructively over the next one and a half to two years, depending on how long it takes? So: what can be adjusted, what can be improved? Or does the Animal Party say that this is not enough for us anyway, so we are not going to support it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u32	No. The Party for Animals is in it constructively. We are also looking at the good points contained in the package. I mentioned, for example, the border tax. We're positive about that. There are still a number of things in there. So we will certainly be watching constructively. I have just made a number of suggestions for the commitment of the Netherlands in the EU to improve the plans. However, there are many other things, such as free trade policy, as I would like to mention, but I have also mentioned the shortages of raw materials, also due to the energy transition that we have to look at. Those are system errors that we also need to solve. Otherwise we can implement this plan, but then we get so much headwind from the current system that it is not enough for the climate at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u33	So, if I understand correctly, is the Animal Party prepared to raise pragmatically or constructively in this Chamber over the next few months? The views of the parties are far apart. We've heard some that are far apart. It is precisely this type of large transition that requires cooperation between parties, because they are so fundamental and so large, even if they are different from each other on this subject. In that respect, I am pleased with the position of the Party for Animals. I would like to confirm that this is a correct reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u34	Sure. A constructive attitude is certainly a correct reading. But I hope that I can get Mr Erkens to believe that, in addition to cost-effectiveness, also with regard to the effectiveness of climate and biodiversity, this is not enough and that we really need to move towards a system change, such as a radical change in agriculture. I hope that the VVD can go along with that to make this plan truly successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u36	I hear so many untruths being told here by Mrs Teunissen; climate terror that I was just talking about in my speech. The reason I stand up is that Mrs Teunissen herself abused the misery of, for example, the Limburgers as a result of the floods in this debate in order to push through her own climate story. Because the facts are as follows. According to Professor Jonkman of TU Delft, there is no increase in the number of floods. There's even a decreasing number of casualties. The International Disaster Database also shows that the number of victims has decreased. Those are the facts. And then Mrs Teunissen says: if we do not do something about climate change, the costs will be higher than if we do something about it. That's what she said. Now, some time ago, Mr Timmermans stated in an initial response that his plans will cost around 1,000 billion. Can Mrs Teunissen tell me how much it will not do about climate change more than that 1,000 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u37	No, I'm not gonna do that, but I'll explain to you why not. There's no way to calculate it at all. Climate disasters are coming, but of course we cannot predict how much billion it will go up. It is possible that pension funds and the like may have picked it out, but I am not ready to do so now. But it's about billions. We have already seen that the climate disaster in Limburg costs billions in climate damage. Let alone if we wait now and do nothing. I think the PVV is working on climate terror. The PVV is engaged in ostrich politics. She's giving people a totally wrong picture. If we are not realistic now, we will have far higher costs. It is then partly thanks to the PVV that we have so much damage that it becomes life-threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u38	I'm just thinking what Mrs Teunissen is saying. She's starting to stutter a little bit, but it's obviously not an answer to my question at all. 'Cause I gave her some facts. For example, there is no increase in the number of floods and no increase in the number of victims. I ask her very specifically how much more than that 1,000 billion it costs to do nothing about climate change. There's just no answer to that. That's typical. It is typical that a party like the Party for Animals makes all kinds of statements here and then has absolutely no answer to a question. That's disgusting, isn't it? That's embarrassing, isn't it? How are you gonna explain that to all the people in the country who have to cough up that money for the climate plans? Then you're gonna say, "Joh, you just have to pay for that. You have to assume that it costs more not to do anything about climate change, but actually we have no idea." Is that the story of the Party for Animals? So they have absolutely no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mrs Teunissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u40	I have already given the answer, but Mr Kops is simply not happy with it. I just want to say that I find his way of debating really very disturbing. If I make a mistake here, he's gonna make a comment about it and play it on the person. I think that's really lame. I think that does not do justice to this debate at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Please don't yell at each other in the hall. We are holding the debate here through the interrupting microphones and the speaker chair. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bontenbal of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. Two Christian Democrats were at the heart of the European Union: the French Christian Democrat Robert Schuman and the German Christian Democrat Konrad Adenauer. Both found each other in their quest for peace and stability through European integration, both committed themselves after the terrible war to the reconciliation between Germany and France, and both were at the basis of the European Coal and Steel Community. Solidarity, i.e. solidarity, was their driving force, because only through solidarity does Europe have a future and the individual can be protected from the anonymous forces of the state, the market and globalisation. That was their commitment, and that must be our commitment. The European Coal and Steel Community was a first practical step in this destiny. Mr. Chairman. The major issues of today's climate, security, migration and digitalisation are also the only ones we can deal with in this way, in lot connection with Europe. Together we are strong and we can do more than we sometimes think. Europe is a normative power. It often sets the standard worldwide. Let's not forget that. Today we are talking about the European climate package, Fit for 55. Our basic attitude is positive and constructive, because we, as Europe, can also make a fist in terms of climate policy and circularity. Ambitious and effective climate policy is a European challenge and an opportunity. Mr. Chairman. As a CDA group, we have a large number of questions about the overall package. These questions are about the effectiveness of the measures, not so much about ambition; that must be clear. My first question is this. In econometrics, there is the so-called Tinbergen rule, which states that within each economic model there must be at least as many instruments as there must be objectives: to achieve one's goals, at least one instrument is needed. Climate policy has several objectives. The most important one is CO reduction. Other goals are a cleaner living environment, stimulating green innovation and strengthening earning capacity. It is therefore also logical, following Tinbergen, to use several policy instruments, but can you also use too many instruments as a government? Using too many instruments for the same purpose could mean undermining each other and unnecessary costs being incurred. Is this not also the case with the Fit for 55 package? For example, in terms of the sustainability of the built environment, we can see that the following instruments are proposed, all of which affect the same sector: a national target for the ESA sectors, a new emissions trading system, energy savings obligations, energy tax adjustments, energy performance standards for new homes and so on. Is that effective? The second point is that in industry 50% of hydrogen consumption must be made up of green hydrogen. Is this a realistic demand? The CDA Group doesn't think so. This could even mean that green electricity is unnecessarily converted into hydrogen, while direct use and therefore greater CO reduction are possible. To what extent is circular hydrogen also taken into account in the transition paths? And to what extent is the Secretary of State aware of the impact on electric cracking if there is a target of 50% green hydrogen? My third question. The Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, the CBAM, creates a level playing field for companies within Europe to compete with imports of steel, cement and other products produced by polluting companies outside Europe. The CBAM will remove that competitive disadvantage. That is good, but the proposal does not provide a correction mechanism for exports outside the EU, so that companies in the relevant sectors with a large market outside the Union are currently at risk of competitive disadvantage. Isn't there still a solution to that? Or do we accept this disadvantage? My fourth point is that there will be a new emissions trading system for the built environment and mobility, but what exactly is the benefit of that? If the impact for the Netherlands is relatively small, is it wise to introduce such a large new instrument? Where are the revenues of this system going? And is the government going to compensate for this in the energy tax? The fifth point. The review of the Energy Taxation Directive will have a major impact on the energy tax system. Degressivity must be eliminated in this proposal. This means that the load in the first drive has to be significantly reduced or that the load in the last drives needs to be significantly increased. This could impose a considerable burden on energy-intensive companies. If the Netherlands does not want to go too far with other countries, the rates in the last discs will not be able to rise too much. That would mean that the rates in the first drives would have to be significantly reduced. How does the Secretary of State view this? I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u43	Yes. If this is a natural moment for you, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u44	They're all very legitimate questions. The questions one, four and five touch on the discussion: what do you do European and what do you do nationally? Where do you have your own sovereignty and instruments and what about European? I would like to know from the CDA: where is the CDA? The CDA, as we know the CDA, has always been very clear about the ETS. The CDA wants as much as possible at European level and it wants the industrial and energy sectors to be exclusive at European level. But do I have to understand your questions in such a way that you say about the built environment and mobility: I do not really want to extend the ETS and we should use national instruments and national powers, in line with, for example, the Climate Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u45	No, then you misunderstand me. These are sincere questions to which I do not yet have the answers. Maybe you don't expect it from the CDA, but we don't have any dogmas at that point. If there are good arguments for doing so, we are simply prepared to do so. But we will always look at this from the principle of subsidiarity. My first point is a serious one. If several policy instruments interact, they can also undermine each other. I'm looking very much for effective policies, for something that actually works. I understand that, on certain points, Europe is on the move and that this also means something for the sovereignty of the Netherlands on that point. My questions were therefore not disguised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u46	I get that. It's a pleasure for you. I don't have all the answers either. We recently received a report from the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the CPB. They have looked at the current state of climate change in prices in current policies. You'll see huge differences. You see things that are very heavily taxed, such as electricity, while it is becoming ever greener, but also things that are not taxed at all. Think of kerosene, for example. There are differences everywhere. The complex thing now is that we have a European package that has a compromise character. I'm going to say positive and negative things about that. But we also have a national package that is of a compromise nature. You'd actually like to have a very close look at whether we're taxing CO as effectively as possible across the board, in everything. Does the CDA agree with me that, in the context of the national implementation plan which is part of the formation, we should look much more closely at whether we are dealing with climate change at all prices?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u47	Yes, in principle I agree with that, of course. I do think there are some misunderstandings about what that price is and is not in. Let me take a look at the fact that, for example, companies are already being taxed quite heavily through the emissions trading system. We are also talking about exemptions and so on. On many points, I am prepared to consider whether there is a good price for pollution. But I think that we must also always realise that we need to tackle this at European level. If you are too out of line as a Member State, you are not actually doing anything about the climate at European level, but you are ensuring that your own activities run away. I'm always willing to watch. If there are stimuli and you can show that we can shift them into policies in a good way, then I'm going to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you. Mr Boucke, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr Bontenbal started out very nicely, I thought, with solidarity and the reason why we started European cooperation. Then he went very quickly into the content. That's how I know him, and that's what's good for him. But I have a question for Mr Bontenbal about this solidarity. There is also a solidarity fund in this package. I am very curious to know what Mr Bontenbal thinks of that fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u50	That's a very good question. I knew it was coming. We must be aware that this package, but also in the climate policy of recent years, already contained a great deal of solidarity. Climate policy as it was, also included all kinds of compensation mechanisms for countries that could not come along. If you look at how the targets have been translated into Member States, you will see that solidarity mechanism in place. The Netherlands has a much higher target than other countries, because we are a prosperous economy. The European Commission's approach has already looked very closely at the capacity of Member States. This means that the Netherlands has a very strong goal. The second point is: should we do so in solidarity? Yes, but I do think we should be careful to put this particular piece on the European Commission's plate. We had a conversation with Frans Timmermans about this, of course, and then I asked the same question. I'm not so hard on it, but I do think it's a development that I'm wondering if it's wise. I believe that climate policy should be social, but we should take care of it ourselves, because we can do so in the Netherlands in conjunction with all the other policies we already have. So I think it's tricky if we just send that piece to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you to Mr Bontenbal for the answer. Solidarity, in this context, I think, has two sides. One: solidarity in the sense of "who coughs up emission reductions first"? He tried to answer that, but solidarity also has to do with: how do we deal with the money we collect? And my question to Mr Bontenbal is: if we have to raise money here in the Netherlands to help the countries, perhaps in Central and Eastern Europe, which are less able to come with it, does Mr Bontenbal think that this is a good principle, a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u52	I am not opposed to this in principle, but I do think we should be careful that the European Commission does not intervene too much in the social policies that countries themselves conduct and can implement, precisely because countries are able to incorporate this in a much wider package than just climate policy. So a country is about its income tax. The country is about social services. We have just had a whole debate on energy poverty. I think it is wise to leave that part, even when it comes to energy, with the Member States. But that's my judgment so far. If you say 'I have a very good argument' and you change my mind, I am open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u53	I think this was a very long answer to my question, but the answer is yes. So you are prepared to do so if we can raise money here in a cost-effective way and help the countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u54	Well, if I say yes right now, I'll say yes to the Social Climate Fund. So far, I've been inquiring about that. I am concerned about whether we should place this piece, only one small part of the climate package, with the European Commission. But if there is a very convincing argument from the cabinet, I will be persuaded by it. I think that a debate is not just about exchanging positions that have been adopted; I also hear some news, and let me also be convinced in debates of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you. I think you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yes. Let's see, I still have a few points. I probably have too many. One more point, Mr President. There is an exception from the prohibition to support the exclusion of electricity from wooded biomass as of 1 January 2027, namely for the application of BECCS, biomass plus CO storage. I thought that was interesting. Is the cabinet prepared to invest in this? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Leijten of the SP, and then Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u58	Despite having a monthly debate on climate and energy in committee, we always have the same debate, namely: does it exist or does it not exist, so that we have to deal with climate change? And one of those who always look at it in a nuanced or balanced way is Mr Bontenball. That is why I simply want to ask a substantive question, and not 'does it exist or does it not exist', because I think that is a waste of our time, including in this Parliament. Mr Bontenbal is not yet clear on his position on this package. And I totally get that, because 16,000 pages, lots of guidelines that need to be adapted... Does the CDA consider it desirable that this be laid down and exchanged as a single package, which means that it is no longer at all visible where exactly the interests and strategic considerations lie in the total? Does the CDA actually think that's a smart strategy to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u59	I understand your question, but I would really like to turn it around: why do we, as a parliament, not take a proper time to really get through to this sort of thing? We have a debate now. Well, I've had four minutes to make it five minutes. I spent a whole day in the chairs here yesterday, too. There are all kinds of debates, but I do not get the impression that all this is equally useful, when we are inclined to accept these huge legislative proposals in a very short time. My proposal would be: let us have a decent, big debate on this every quarter. We still have a few months, a few years to assess all those parts. Let's all go down in depth and take a good look at the legislative proposals. I would appreciate it if my colleagues could do the same... because in this debate too, it is very soon again about all kinds of big, overarching issues. That is what we are doing in every committee debate, but that is why we never really have a fundamental debate on the content. To be honest, this means that we always let the cabinet get away with general answers about climate change and so we never go into the substance. But that's what we do as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u60	It is also true that I only have three questions, so I have serious doubts as to whether I am going to ask a follow-up question. Because I want to address the VVD and D66 as well. We have no less than four government parties and only three questions. And then I'm going to put two more to Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u61	What an honor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u62	What an honor. This is a big package. It's going really fast. It goes over people's heads. It is about 350 million inhabitants who are allowed to pay it all, but we are giving the key to all the solutions to the industry that has caused us where we stand. That's what I'm really worried about. We will hear what the cabinet answers, how the cabinet sees it and how we get our hands on it ourselves. But then I have another question. I also know the CDA as a party looking not only at Europe but also at the world. I am concerned that with this large package, which we are going to be very busy with and which we have a lot to say about, we are turning Europe into a fortress, but that we are no longer looking at the consequences of our production, of our industry in, for example, the Amazon region or Indonesia, on the islands there. Mass logging takes place there, and then soy and palm oil are produced for our markets here. When those woods are gone, we can be Fit for 55 or Fit for 65, but then things are fucked up. Does Mr Bontenbal not think that we should also say to the cabinet today: look in Europe how we can curb the production for which jungles are being cut down. Because we cannot just stare at navels; we must also continue to look at the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u63	I totally agree with the SP that we should not be staring at belly buttons. I am very pleased with the ambition you have expressed internationally, but I do think that the route will go through Europe. There are some ugly things going on here about big companies. There is sometimes ugly talk about trade agreements, but they can be instruments to really tilt things. Trade agreements can ensure that our standards are used worldwide. We have companies in the Netherlands that are able to initiate the most beautiful transitions. We ourselves have recently started with green industrial policy, so I think that if we have the ambition to do it in a green way in Europe, we can thus have a certain guide function in the rest of the world. So I am not against trade agreements and large companies. If we do that through Europe, I think we can be a huge change force in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u64	I heard Mr Bontenbal argue for CO storage the other day, and then biomass as a CO storage. Maybe he can shed some light on that. Is that what he's saying? That we're gonna be planting woods that store CO? Would you like to clarify that? But more generally, I would like to ask the following. I hear the CDA very often pleading for storage, including CCS. In all the reports so far, including those by science, we see that this is being adjusted a little bit and that it is being said that we should first do something on the front. So we need to focus on these reductions. We need to invest billions in that. Of course, you can invest in a research on storage at the end, but we shouldn't bet on storage already. So that storage doesn't relieve us of the duty to start reducing now. Does Mr Bontenbal agree with me that we should at least place the emphasis on reducing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u65	I partly agree with you, because CO storage is also a form of reduction. If you mean that CO storage will be an excuse for companies not to make that long-term change, I agree with you. I don't know exactly which reports you're reading, but the reports I'm reading say that CO storage for some sectors just takes a while not to let that CO go into the air. I think climate policy is so urgent that I also want to defend difficult options, including CO storage, nuclear energy and biomass. As far as biomass is concerned, let me be quite honest, there is a lot of nonsense about this in this house and beyond. Martin Junginger, Gert-Jan Nabuurs and Guido van der Werf are professors in the Netherlands who know and actively publish articles in this field. They recently wrote an opinion article in the Volkskrant explaining what all these myths about biomass are and why they don't add up. On many points, in this Chamber, we say that we must follow science when it comes to climate policy. My plea is: do so on all subjects. When I look at what science tells me about biomass, about nuclear energy and about CO storage, it is very simple: climate ambition is extremely urgent. We're going to have a lot of trouble meeting those high goals that we're putting ourselves right, but we can't rule out free lunch options here. The Animal Party will also have to accept that if we want to calculate it around, we will not escape difficult options. I dare to defend it, and I hope you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u66	I actually wanted to ask a follow-up question, but I would also like to comment on biomass. Mr Bontenbal assumes CO reduction on paper, but when using biomass, he does not take the view that we also have a biodiversity crisis. We're currently in the sixth extinction wave. This means that we absolutely cannot afford to further stimulate and exploit the production of wood and the destruction of forests. We need to put an end to that. We have to stop doing that. So would Mr Bontenbal please observe this biodiversity crisis? When you do that, you really come to the conclusion that biomass is a no-go. Secondly, biomass is a no-go because of the following. On paper, it does lead to a reduction. However, trees are being cut for our biomass plants. Then that CO goes into the air, and it takes 30 years for you to get one of those trees back that then collects CO. That's not just a story, because research shows that. The point is that we don't have that time, those 30 years, at all, because we have to stay below that 1.5 degree. My question to Mr Bontenbal is therefore whether he wants to see biomass in a broader perspective than just that reduction target. I ask him to look at the biodiversity crisis in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u67	Of course I do. That is why I think it is important for Europe to come up with a forest strategy and think about biodiversity. But the views you have expressed on biomass are not in line with what the experts and scientists in the Netherlands are telling me. You're not a biomass expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u68	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u69	I'm not a biomass expert. Then what is the most rational thing you can do as a Member of Parliament? That is confidence in science, on the experts in the Netherlands who have something sensible to say about it. So if I want to know about biomass, I'll call, app or tweet with some professors who know about it. And they tell me something else. So follow the science, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u70	I'm not having a science discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u71	We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u72	No, because we're not capable of that either. But the fact is that if you start burning trees, it will be at the expense of biodiversity and will increase CO emissions and not reduce CO emissions. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Bontenbal that I am pleased with his observation that you should first focus on reducing CO and not on storage as an excuse to keep emitting. So I can totally agree with that and maybe we can pull in a little bit more together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u73	The latter was not new, by the way. I think we've always said that. I think we differ on biomass. If you have good scientific reports that show anything other than what I just said, then I'm open to that. But for now, I think it's a little bit different from what you just told me here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u74	I am stepping up at once because Mr Bontenbal says that we must follow the science. And that is very important, because earlier this week or last week, leading Dutch climate scientists said that Europe must be climate neutral much faster than 2050, actually ten years earlier. Does Mr Bontenbal agree? Will we then ask the cabinet to see if the planning agency will reach that conclusion, so that the cabinet in Europe can call for an acceleration of targets in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u75	Well, very precisely, science does not tell which national or European target countries, or Europe, should have. What science tells us is something about carbon budgets and so on. Then come the political choices how to translate it. So it is not the science that dictates exactly what national or European objective should be. I think Europe is taking a good step with that 55%. I think it is very good that we are doing so at European level. I think we should also realise that we have 10% of total global emissions. So Europe cannot be the only one to get so far ahead of the troops that we are getting completely out of hand, but I think it is a very good step for Europe to go to 55%. I still have a cry of hearts. We're always talking about targets here. Debates lang is always about targets. Sometimes it becomes a game of peeing to see who has the highest goal, but we rarely talk about good instrumentation: how do you make sure that you actually achieve that goal? I think we spend a lot of time in this house debating this kind of thing. And we spend far too little time on: what is just good policy, how do we just make it and what are instruments that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u76	Not a question, but a statement. I agree that we need to talk here about policies that are actually going to work. But science is quite clear that what is currently on the table is not enough to reach the Paris agreement, and that Europe is not doing enough either. Then it is a political choice: are we going to be climate neutral five years earlier or ten years earlier? There are a number of leading scientists who say: Europe needs to be ten years earlier. And I would hope to find you there on my side, at least to ask the cabinet to find out with the planning agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u77	Then we're gonna do what I'm afraid of. I would say: will we just start with very good climate policy in the Netherlands, which also apply it consistently, and not do something different every two years so that it doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you, Mr. Bontenball. I shall then give the floor to Mr Thijssen of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today is a debate of hope, I think. For at last there is the European Union, which has passed a law that is really going to work on climate action. And at last there is one of the great economic blocs of this world, which comes up with a huge package of measures to tackle climate change. That's smart, because with over 400 million people, it's much smarter and more effective to tackle climate change than with 17 million people. This will make Europe better, and that will also improve the lives of Dutch people. 'Cause we're gonna isolate houses and make them healthier. Then it doesn't matter so much anymore that the gas price will rise, because we won't have any more problems. We're gonna make sure people can go electric from A to B, with used electric cars, with a better O.V. Then it doesn't matter anymore that you have to pay two euros per litre at the pump. Many fossil jobs are going to disappear, but fortunately many more green jobs are coming back. That way you can earn an honest living and also contribute something to a viable planet. So I'm proud to be European today. I am also proud to be the Netherlands, as part of the European Union. And maybe I'm a little more proud than others in this house, because my partymates Timmermans and Samson have put together this huge package and are the architects of it. To be honest, that is a good thing, because this outgoing cabinet has not had enough climate policy in recent years. This self-appointed "greenest cabinet ever" did not promise enough, what it promised did not deliver, and what it did deliver did not happen in an honest way. Industry still pays many times less energy taxes than ordinary citizens. There are still billions and billions going to the major polluters in our society. Those are just fossil subsidies that we need to get rid of. Fortunately, Europe is now going to tackle this with this huge policy package. That doesn't make the package perfect. There is a lot to discuss, but I would like to make one point in particular: the European Commission is crystal clear. This climate transition is above all a huge social transition. It's a transition that everyone needs to be able to experience. With what the cabinet has now sent to the Chamber, according to the planning agencies there is an average burden increase of almost €200 per household. In the government's response, I don't see anything about how that's gonna get picked up. I don't see anything about how people are actually able to get into a well-insulated house, how they can go electric from A to B, and how they can qualify for that second-hand electric car. Nothing about that. And according to the PvdA, that has to be really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'd almost say you're doing it again. You started out so positively. I thought: at last a contribution from Mr Thijssen in which there is some optimism. But then the standard reflex came back: everything that has happened over the past few years is completely wrong. I believe that we are having a debate on the Fit for 55 package and not on the climate policy of the past four years of this cabinet. Why not hold a debate on the content of the Fit for 55 package? I find that extremely frustrating. All this precious time in this debate is filled with discussions that we have also had in committee debates. It's a repeat of moves and we're not getting anywhere. It's 12,000 pages, it's mega-scene. Why don't we go into the contents as a room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u81	The European Commission is sending something to Europe and the impact on the Netherlands is an increase in costs for households of almost €200 on average. I think it is essential that there is support for this hugely important climate transition, on which I fully agree with Mr Bontenbal. This means that we also need to show people now, and the European Commission also says that it is a social transition, that we make sure that your life gets better, that we make sure that you are compensated for that cost increase. I'd like to talk to the cabinet about that. I want a commitment from this cabinet that there will be support for the climate transition and that people's lives will improve and that they will be compensated for the cost increase in these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u82	That is still part of this package. Europe does not oblige us to spread all these extra costs over the citizens. The package simply contains the mechanism that if a Member State raises something, for example through an emissions trading system, that Member State can also compensate for it with less energy taxation. If we decide here that this must and can be done socially, then we can arrange it here. But that has nothing to do with this package. We are now going to have a debate on national climate policy, while we are talking about the Europe's "Fit for 55" package of 12,000 pages that are superb.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u83	That is true, of course, but the European Commission is proposing that pollution in Europe be given a price and an ever higher price. I think that is very good, because that is one of the best climate measures you can take. Next, the European Commission is not talking about how that strikes in a socially just way in the Netherlands. That's what this cabinet is about. I am in a debate with the cabinet and my question to the cabinet is whether they can promise that the cost increase for a family will be compensated. I want the commitment that people can experience it and that they are better off by implementing this climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u84	So the package as it stands does not criticize you on that point. You are actually saying: in the slipstream, in the translation to the Netherlands, we must take care of it properly. So that is not a criticism of the package. Do you want Europe to draw this towards itself and tell Member States how it should be implemented and how to deal with this social approach? I'm looking for exactly what criticism you have of the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u85	I want to ensure that we continue to wrestle those 12,000 pages over the next few years and that we take a very long time to do so. I fully agree with Mr Bontenbal's call for this to be done carefully and properly. I would like to take as a starting point in this Parliament that we are providing support for this climate transition. It must be a social transition. We just have to agree here and now: no matter how it turns out, we're going to make sure that life for people in the Netherlands gets better with isolated houses, with electric transport. We make sure that higher costs are compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr Thijssen talks about affordability and support. You can imagine that the VVD listens with interest to its input for that reason. How does he look at the European Commission's proposal on CO pricing for the built environment and mobility? 'Cause this is pretty low CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u87	This is exactly what this is about. PBL included this and said that this could lead to an increase of €185 per year for an average family. That's how the PvdA says we shouldn't do it. That is why I ask the Cabinet to make a commitment to compensate for this for these people, so that these people find that this climate policy makes their homes and cars better, their jobs greener and they do not lose their finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u88	Finally, Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u89	Do you also support a CO pricing system? You can also choose to ask the Cabinet to amend it. Then you opt for another mechanism, which might be more affordable for households. My next question is this: what are your views on the social climate fund? Because that's not about Dutch households. This is about a quarter use of income within the built environment, and mobility - you mentioned it just now - for compensating households in other countries. What is the priority for you in this consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u90	The priority for the Labour Party is that we are now really going to work on climate action, that we are really going to achieve those goals, that we are really going to come up with policies that make the meters that need to be made and that we are going to do so in a socially just way. Again, the climate transition is a social transition. I see benefits from the ETS system for the built environment and transport, but I also see disadvantages, namely a cost increase for households. I am here today in favour of a commitment from the cabinet that people will be compensated for this. If we have finally worked through and negotiated the 12,000 sides and we come up with another system that is equally effective and that is also socially just, I am open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u92	This is indeed the point I was trying to make. The package sent to the Chamber by the cabinet will result in an increase in costs which is not currently compensated. This undermines the acceptance of the climate transition. We just heard. The populists in the country and also the populists in this Chamber use this to argue that the EU is doing this in order to catch the common man in the Netherlands and, passing, to cast doubt on the existence of climate change. Well, climate change exists. Our own meteorological institute, the KNMI, has made it very clear that the Randstad and this country are threatened by rising sea levels. But we must also ensure that people with a less large scholarship are taken away. For this reason, it is very important for the PvdA to have a commitment from the Cabinet that people with a less large grant will also be fully compensated for this policy and that they will improve on it. And that there will be fun and hope about climate policy. Let the polluters pay. Give people in a poor rental house a rent discount. Lower taxes on labour. Increase pensions and benefits. It can be done in all kinds of ways, but important for the PvdA today is that we are going to make sure that this social transition is done fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u93	Your last question, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u94	I thought it was two more, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u95	We have four questions and/or first-term comments to each other. You've had three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u96	Then I'll just do the last one here. What the hell, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u97	It's always annoying to be strict about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u98	I didn't know a comment counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u100	I would like to spend my last one on Mr Thijssen. That's an honor. What touched me was what Mr Thijssen said about climate change and the common man. We do not disagree on climate change. It exists. There is, and you should bet on that. Mr Bontenbal's approach is very appealing to me. But then there's the regular guy. In the past, the Labour Party was really "the common man." At the beginning of Mr Thijssen's speech I had run away for a while, but when I came back because I wanted to hear the rest, it was about electric cars and that sort of thing he was talking about the ordinary man, who is about to fall short every month instead of having something left. How did that ordinary man ever get an electric car like that? And it all has to be done in the short term. Does the Labour Party still belong to the common man or not? I don't follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u101	That is the essence of my speech, so I am glad to be able to explain it again. This is exactly the problem. We know that transport and mobility, how to move from A to B, must be greened. We also know that the common man can't afford an electric car right now. We must ensure that second-hand electric cars are introduced, that it improves, that there are partial cars, also in poorer neighbourhoods, so that people can work with sub-cars. Until then, we must ensure that people, unfortunately still in a petrol car, can go from A to B for no more costs. We have seen that the Planning Bureau says that the package that the cabinet has now sent to the Chamber leads to an increase of €185 per year for an average family. My plea and my question to the cabinet is: make the promise that you will compensate, make the promise that the common man will enjoy the climate policy and that his life will be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u102	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u103	It's the only way we're gonna get everyone. This is the only way to prevent climate change, and that is the only way to ensure that people get a better life through climate policy. Mr. Chairman. Two more points. Highly prominent Dutch climate scientists, I have just said in an interruption, have said that the EU should be climate neutral ten years earlier. I'm afraid they're right. How does the Secretary of State of Climate view these new insights? I'd like a reflection. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have this investigated by the PBL? If that comes to the same conclusion, is the Secretary of State prepared to argue for this within the EU, but also in Glasgow? Can we do this a little fast? 'Cause Glasgow's starting Sunday. Finally. On November 6th, ten days from now, tens of thousands of people are going on the streets to demand an ambitious, effective, but above all fair and just climate policy. I'd say come all!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you, Mr Thijssen. There is another interruption by Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u105	It was good to hear that Mr Thijssen started his speech by saying that he feels European. It is a European package. We have to stop each other from just putting on the national glasses. One of the points reflected in the cabinet's views is that it is not in favour of the committee's plans to undertake cross-border renewable energy projects. Now I understand that almost no studies have been carried out to date on how best to exploit cross-border renewable energy. I often hear Mr Thijssen talking about investigations, so I wonder if he would support the request that an investigation should be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u106	Oh, what a precise question. Yeah, basically. Let us, above all, generate as much sustainable energy as possible in the world as possible. I would, however, like to make sure that action in a faraway country would ensure that we should do less in the Netherlands. There is often the danger with these kinds of ideas: then we do scope 3 emissions and then everything will be fine. But that actually means that too little is happening in the Netherlands. I support the research, but let us ensure that the transformation that is needed in the Netherlands is not delayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you, Mr Thijssen. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel like a European too. There is reason to be proud of Europe when it comes to the climate. Europe, the Union, is the only continent that succeeded in achieving 25% of CO reduction two years ago. We're world leaders. At the same time, we are not yet ambitious enough with this package. To maximize the warming to 1.5 degrees, 60% reduction is required in 2030. That is not the ambition of this package. That is the ambition of GroenLinks. Our approach to this package will be: where can we further increase efforts to achieve what is needed, a global approach to climate change? If Europe strengthens that leading position, it will take others with it and convince them to take the same steps. We're the biggest free market in the world. Everyone wants to do business with us. If we make demands, we'll take others with us. The ambition can therefore be even higher. In general, I can agree with this package. There are a number of concerns. Solidarity and climate justice must take shape at national, European and global level. Otherwise, we're never gonna make it. Mr Thijssen is right: this is not only an ecological but also a social transition. Anyone who says we can keep the status quo and that we can leave it as it is, lies. He lies to his own constituents and to the children and grandchildren of those voters. This task is global. It's huge. Everyone will have to adapt. The biggest shoulders, the biggest polluters, will have to pay the highest price, but we cannot compensate for everything and everyone or promise that things will remain as they were. That is why it is good that there is such an ambitious package. That is why it is very important that we bring everyone in Europe. Such a social climate fund is crucial to the success of this package. We in the Netherlands must support this. This must also be strengthened as the Netherlands. GroenLinks believes that free rights in the ETS for the industrial and energy sectors should be reduced more rapidly; faster than the ambition in this package. Its revenues can be spent on the social climate fund, to ensure that everyone is involved. I do not yet see the conviction of everyone in the Chamber and in the Cabinet to do so. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to that. Another component of the package is that you need to introduce the border charge quickly if you are to get the free ETS rights out of the sector faster. That too is a means of exerting pressure on other countries. I also hope that the pace can be increased with Dutch effort. Kritischer we are about the non-ETS part. This is about buildings and mobility, for example. It is proposed to introduce a very small CO levy, in addition to all the national policies needed. That is a lot of national policy, because a lot has to be done and it is going to be very complex. There are two dangers to it. Those who deny or run away from climate problems will say: Europe is already doing it, so we do not have to do anything more at national level. The other danger is that the consequences experienced by citizens will be increased, so that it is only Brussels that is to blame. This will help national politicians avoid their responsibilities. At the same time, I have just mentioned the report that has recently been published, namely that we are still very inconsistent when it comes to the price of CO. Every tax review, especially during this formation period, will have to take biodiversity into account in a much more consistent way the damage to climate. Anything that damages the climate will have to be taxed, not one and the other not or one very extreme and the other too little. This must be a guiding principle in national climate policy. In doing so, we can contribute much better to this European package. In addition, the Netherlands is lagging behind. We are not yet achieving the average reduction in Europe. We almost have a double footprint per capita, compared to the average in Europe. There is also an ambition to bring the share of renewable energy to 40% by 2030. I'm asking the cabinet about the cap that was laid at 35 terawatts on land. This is impossible to combine with the ambition of the "Fit for 55" package. Does the cabinet recognize that and say it's gonna take that cap off? I ask, because we need that renewable energy. There are also free ETS rights in aviation. They can also be removed more quickly. I ask the Secretary of State to make a commitment to this, because this must also be an important priority. Finally. Every tonne of CO that we extract from the atmosphere now counts double and cross-side every year. Methane is the strongest greenhouse gas there is. The way in which we now reform agriculture more quickly gives an advantage in the climate approach. I call on the government to give much more priority to the transition in agriculture not only because of the nitrogen problem, but also because of methane emissions. This is also necessary because too little priority has been given to it in the European package and in the review of the common agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I shall now give the floor to Mr Boucke of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am proud of what Europe has put down. With this bold and ambitious plan, Europe is for the first time acting like a green giant on the world stage. And that's what's needed. That is necessary, because the earth is warming up, and that is a threat to all of us, with drought, forest fires and floods. I myself have been able to work in Brussels for 13 years. I know there are always countries that want to kick the brakes. When I was allowed to negotiate the emissions of cars on behalf of the Netherlands in 2007, the industry stepped on the brakes and Germany stepped on the brakes. The Netherlands was ambitious at the time. We fought for strict emission standards and they came. Turns out what? Anno 2021 is the rescue of the automotive industry in Europe. Mr. Chairman. A better environment starts with political leadership. That's the lesson we can learn from this. We don't have the luxury of taking it easy. We are not averting the climate disaster by looking away. As far as my party is concerned, Fit for 55 is a great opportunity with a huge package of plans to isolate our homes, make them more comfortable, make the polluters pay and thus invest money in green technologies. Clean is the future. With Fit for 55, Europe can become the world's leader. As far as D66 is concerned, that is what we must want: not only Europe's frontrunner in the world, but also the Netherlands' frontrunner in Europe. I am really proud that as a Dutch representative, I am allowed to stand in this Chamber and explain my motivation. I do that because of my love for Europe. I got to work there for a long time. I do that also from the concerns I have about the climate crisis. My mission is clear: let us make the Netherlands the climate leader in Europe. That's a big responsibility. There are countries that want a lower climate target. For D66 that is no excuse to sit back as a prosperous country. That is why I ask this cabinet not to behave like a dwarf in Europe. The transfer of the PBL shows that the Netherlands is far from fit for 55. Don't let that scare us, but let that motivate us. I therefore call on the cabinet to maintain the ambitions of the Netherlands in this package. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is now leading Europe in the field of clean mobility. We have agreed here that only emissions-free cars will be sold in 2030. The European Commission does not want this until 2035. I think it's too late. I am hoping from Germany, a country with many large car brands, which in its provisional government agreement indicates that it wants to go for 2030 as well. That's an opportunity. A question to the cabinet: what is the government's position on bringing forward this European phase-out date? Mr. Chairman. I notice that the train is hardly mentioned in the 'Fit for 55' package. A missed opportunity, because by train we can discover many beautiful places in Europe, and also in a clean way. I therefore ask the cabinet how it intends to put the need for a rapid European rail network in Europe on the map. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about energy. The cleanest energy is the energy we don't use. We want to take advantage of the strength of Europe to speed up isolation in the Netherlands. The renovation accelerator is helping with that. The energy we do use must be clean as far as we are concerned and preferably generated close to home. I am curious to hear from the cabinet what opportunities we can take with better European cooperation in the construction of our wind farms at sea. Mr. Chairman. Pollution is getting an ever higher price. That's smart, because that's how the clean alternative gets more and more affordable. That clean alternative must be there. In recent weeks, people have been confronted with the higher gas price. I think this is a very important point of attention. It also came along earlier. I would like this cabinet to promise that the negotiations will always take into account the position of low and middle incomes. It has been said before: everyone must be able to come along in this major renovation. Mr President, I shall conclude. This is the start of a great green adventure for the European giant. We in the Netherlands must dare to lead the way and lead that green giant to a climate-neutral future. We can do that, and we can do that together in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u111	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Thijssen. His last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u112	I heard Mr Boucke say that polluters have to pay. I also hear that the income position of low incomes and middle incomes needs to be looked at carefully. Can we also go a step further and say: if there are cost increases for low incomes and middle incomes, then they will be fully compensated? We know that the pollutants have to pay more, so the financial space is there. Can we talk about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u113	The polluters must indeed pay more, but we must also be honest: this transition is going to cost money. We must ensure that people are compensated as much as possible, especially those who can come badly. Those are the low incomes and middle incomes. But to make a promise here that everything will be compensated while we are still going through thousands of pages, I find irresponsible. I'm not gonna make that promise here. But let me say that I share Mr Thijssen's objective. I also listened very carefully to him and I agreed with him on many points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u114	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party, including for her the last interruption. Then Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u115	I have another question about aviation. I hear D66 is very positive about the plans and that D66 also wants to be frontrunner and ambitious. However, we also see that the "Fit for 55" package that is now before us does not yet deal with the shrinkage of aviation, which is necessary. There will be a kind of kerosene tax, at least a beginning of it, but we see that much more is needed to really reduce aviation in order to achieve the goals of Paris. Aviation is still largely out of the question. Does Mr Boucke agree with me that we should move towards binding agreements on the reduction of aviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yes. The European Commission's plan contains a number of proposals for aviation. I welcome this, because I know how long it took to ensure that we take various actions in the field of aviation. A tax on kerosene, but also a very important one, is a tightening up of the emissions trading system. Something we couldn't do ten years ago, we're gonna do it now. As far as I'm concerned, it can go a little faster. I also think it is important that we, as the Netherlands, should do more at national level, that is the leading role that I have always referred to. We're a big airline country. Let us be the first country in Europe to make its aviation more sustainable. We can do that. I also think that we can show that the rest of the world can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u117	We know D66 as a real climate party, which always wants to go even further than other people. We also see in recent years that all these goals are not being met continuously. The energy agreement hasn't been reached all the time. Urgenda lawsuits are needed to force governments to do that sort of thing anyway. We also know D66 as a batch of vaccination compulsion, of lockdowns and that sort of thing. The PBL has looked a bit ahead and says: if we do not achieve our goals, then we need to think about things like climate lockdowns. For example, RTL has created an article on CO budgets distributed via QR codes. Would D66 be in favour of that? Would D66 be in favour of a climate lockdown if the targets are not met quickly enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u118	I'm really proud to wear the term "climate party." I thank Mr Jansen for that. I agree with Mr Jansen, to put it in good Dutch: we have to put our money where our mouth is. I believe that if we agree on ambitious climate goals, we should also agree on measures to achieve these objectives. That has indeed happened too little in the past. With regard to D66, an ambitious objective also includes an ambitious package of measures. I see that Europe is coming up with a package that adds up to 55% below the line. I like that; I like that very much. It also seems to be conclusive. We will have a great deal of discussion about whether it is fairly divided and whether it is just. In our view, it should always be at least 55%. I also think that we in the Netherlands should run even faster on top of that. How are we gonna do that? By making good deals with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u119	I don't really hear an answer to my question. Suppose we do not reach 55% by 2030, but 45% by 2030, and the PBL is going to count on it and say: if we introduce a climate lockdown now, we will reach that last ten percentage points. Would D66 then be in favour of introducing a climate lockdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u120	Yeah, let's say, let's say. Suppose we reach 65%, I'd say. Let us make a package that is final and that brings us to 55% in Europe and 60% in the Netherlands. We can. If we start now with "if we don't make it," then we can close the tent and we don't have to start it. Let us make sure that we are ambitious, and I am truly confident that this Chamber will succeed in agreeing a firm package of measures that is fair and fair and that will allow people to join a small grant. Then we don't need your couple at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u121	Then another couple. Could climate lockdown be part of the package of measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u122	The Commission's plan, Mr Bontenbal, is well aware of how many thousand pages that plan contains. That's my lead. We can do it with that. I keep saying that in the Netherlands we can go a step further. We also need to agree on measures on this. We'll talk about that a lot in this Chamber. I agree with that, because it must be done according to the democratic process. But those are the measures we stand for. I'd say read our election program. It adds up to 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u123	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u124	I see you're very much avoiding the question. But would you or would you not be for a climate lockdown? Would you be in favour of saying: we are going to close the highways for a month, so that no CO is emitted so that those targets can be met? Are you or are you not for such a climate lockdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u125	I would like to suggest to Mr Jansen that we review our electoral programme and perhaps search for the word he loves so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you, Mr. Boucke. Then I give the floor to Mr Erkens of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We want to pass on our world clean, safe and liveable to the next generations. This requires ambitious and effective climate policy. At the same time, the Netherlands cannot solve everything on its own and an all-ingang would lead to the loss of a level playing field for our companies. In that case it is: the world warmer and the Netherlands poorer. The VVD is therefore in favour of ambitious European climate policy. We therefore welcome the European climate target of 55% reduction by 2030. With a common goal, Europe will achieve more than on its own. A European approach ensures a level playing field for our companies. It is also logical to look at where we can achieve the most CO profits at a European level. For example, Dutch gas plants may be needed to enable the Polish exit from coal plants. In addition, European measures can make our national efforts easier, allowing us to achieve the transition in a more cost-effective way. Europe and the Netherlands can take a leading role worldwide. The European objective of 55% is therefore not in question for us. This mammoth package is about 12,000 pages, as Mr Bontenbal said, there are measures that we can agree with and, logically, we also have measures that we are concerned about. We welcome measures such as the tightening of CO prices for industry and the green border tax. This will allow industry to take the major steps towards 2030. I am therefore pleased that the cabinet is committed to creating even more space to achieve the goals we set together in the ETS sectors, in industry. The green border tax ensures that we do not lose our jobs to countries like China, because we have more ambitious policies. That leads to a smart direction to choose. Our main concern is the affordability of a number of proposals. We are already facing enormous fuel, gas and electricity prices. This already leads to high bills for households and also within Fit for 55 there are proposals that create additional costs for middle income and SMEs. Not all of these measures will help to achieve a significant reduction in CO2 emissions. The CO2 price, the ETS BRT as it is technically called, and the CO2 price for the built environment and mobility increase the burden significantly for the Dutch, but hardly reduce CO2 emissions. According to the PBL, it is 0,5 megaton for a substantial increase in charges. My question to the cabinet is why it is relatively positive about this proposal. Why do you not join countries that are opposed to this proposal? Is not affordable and effective climate policy important? So how do you explain that the CO2 reduction of this proposal is very limited? Linked to this CO price for households, a further 25% of the revenue from this tax on Dutch households is transferred to a European social climate fund. This is what we're worried about. We can no longer compensate households for this cost increase, because part of the money does not return to the Dutch treasury. We compensate families in Portugal and Poland. This double solidarity is, after all, a step too far for us. We compensate for the transition in other countries and also take on the highest ambitions in the Netherlands. The feeling creeps us out, Mr Thijssen also pointed out that the party-political colour of the European Climate Commissioner might play a role in this. Does the government see this fund as part of climate policy, or is it income policy? Are you prepared to carry out a subsidiarity test on this proposal, as income policy is a national competence? If you add up all these proposals, what does it mean for Dutch households? That is simply not clear to us in the current visions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u128	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u129	Let's talk about affordability. There are different perspectives. If you don't do anything, what does it cost? This was a question from Mr Kops. Estimates range from 5% to 15% of our global GDP. That's 80 trillion, so 4 trillion to 12 trillion a year it's gonna cost if you don't do something. That's a hell of a lot of money. That's totally priceless. That is a debate other than the affordability of this package, but I wanted to make that point. Then there's the pay-bareness of this package. I agree with you on the criticism of CO widening or the ETS widening to built environments and mobility. But I find it difficult for you to question the social climate fund with this criticism. Is the VVD prepared to support the social climate fund if it receives a different funding than the current one? Because it is obvious that there are regions in Member States, in Poland, in Estonia, which I happen to know, where we have been recently where people are completely dependent on fossil extraction and energy generation and that those countries must also be included in the transition. Therefore, a social climate fund is essential for the success of this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr Van der Lee asked a fair question as far as I am concerned, because in some areas the social climate fund feels like income policy. Hence my question to the government. You can see in a number of other proposals in the "Fit for 55" package that there are also funds used to make industry more sustainable and for innovation across Europe. Of course, this is often a net contribution from the Netherlands to a fund that can also be applied in other countries. My doubts are as to whether the European Union directly compensates households in other countries in this package, which we finance through our households. That link in between is very difficult for us to find, let me put it this way. I understand, of course, that if you look at a climate package of this order size, you want to make sure everyone can come along. Because if you decide in Poland that the coal plants are all going to shut down, and if we do less cost-effectively here, then there are also certain forms, as always with European proposals, in which we collectively look at where the most effective result can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u131	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u132	If I listen carefully to Mr Erkens, he says: the VVD is for a social climate fund that is based on bringing people who are extremely affected by the transition in Europe, as we also compensate the employees of Hemweg and we have included in the recent law on the production limitation of coal power stations a provision for a social transition fund. But if that fund becomes a policy of income that specifically compensates for households, then the VVD is against it. Is that a correct summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u133	That is a partly correct summary of colleague Van der Lee. I just said that compensation should take place nationally. As far as we are concerned, the Social Climate Fund has built in a double concern. It's income policy and we're picking it up from our households. I do agree with Mr Van der Lee that everyone must be able to go through this transition. I would say, also in connection with a previous interruption I had with Mr Thijssen, that we should look at this nationally. We've done that in the past. I simply doubt whether this competence belongs in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u134	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u135	Thank you. Finally, we have concerns about the feasibility of a number of proposals, for example the 50% green hydrogen in industry. That's an ambitious number. We don't run away from ambition, but at the same time we're still producing virtually no hydrogen. The Netherlands uses relatively much hydrogen in Europe. How does the government view this? How does this fit in with our current plans? How does this relate to the directive and to energy saving, as green hydrogen production will require more energy because of the conversion losses generated by its production? In addition to the 50% hydrogen, there are other proposals that may be difficult to achieve. What are the main concerns of this government? In summary. We support the 55% European climate ambition. We see many proposals that we can support, but we do have serious concerns about aspects of the package that seem to be more about income policy than about climate policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u137	Did Mr Erkens really say at the beginning of his speech that the gas plants should continue to operate here in the Netherlands, including in order to remove the people of Poland from the coal? Did he really say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u138	I think Mr Kops heard exactly what I said in his rhetorical question. He has just mentioned in his own speech that Chinese coal plants are running at full speed and that therefore Dutch climate measures are ineffective. I say, on the contrary, that a European approach responds to his objection, if in Poland there are 20 coal-fired power stations by smoking while we close an extra gas-fired power station here and the electricity networks in Europe are interconnected. We need to make choices that are most cost-effective and that also achieve the most CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u140	Isn't that complete insanity? How will Mr Erkens explain this to the people here in the Netherlands? In the Netherlands it is said to the households: "You must all get rid of the gas, because gas is dirty. It's fossil. We need to get rid of that. That costs many tens of thousands of euros per house. But the gas plants must remain open and turn harder to remove people in Poland from the coal." What the hell is that? How do you explain that to the people here? People here in the Netherlands have to pay many tens of thousands of euros to get rid of the gas, but gas for Poland to get them off the coal is good. What the hell are the people here in the Netherlands paying for the many tens of thousands of euros? How does Mr Erkens explain this? That's crazy, isn't it? Is that European solidarity? So the people here in the Netherlands are paying many tens of thousands of euros for the Poles? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u141	I can reassure you. We are not going to run the gas plants for Polish electricity until the end of the day. It's a matter of timing: at what point can you finish the step off the gas? That's going to take decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u142	Thank you. No, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u143	Billions are going to be spent. Dutch billions, European billions, of course, often raised by the inhabitants of the European Union or borrowed with all of them and therefore moved on to the future. And they are actually given away to the industry, which also owns the industry, as we saw last week at Nieuwsuur on the construction of hydrogen. We give the keys to Shell, who doesn't have to pay a penny but takes all the winnings. We made that mistake once before when we started the gas extraction in Groningen in the sixties. Is the VVD prepared not to make that mistake again and say: if we invest in the development of hydrogen, then we will bring its benefits back into society and not be credited to Shell's profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u144	In any case, for us, the intention is not to send uncovered cheques to industry. The European Climate Package significantly strengthens the ETS pricing, the CO price, so that we can get rights out of the market faster and strengthen the path with which we reduce them. So the industry will also have to pay. At the same time, we still need jobs in industry in the coming years, because if we do not have this industry here in the Netherlands or in Europe, we are still going to import those products. We can always put business in a fucking corner, but we also need them for this transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u146	If you get a completely different answer than that to the question you are asking, of course there is no debate. We are now giving billions to the consortium of Gasunie and Shell for the development of the hydrogen backbone, without regulating any benefits for us in the future. Last week, Gasunie was the alarm clock. Even in the Ministry of EZK, we're worried about that, but we don't know anything. That's undesirable, isn't it? The fact that we don't know is undesirable, but also that we give away so much money, public money, paid by the inhabitants of the Netherlands, to the development of something that is needed for the future. That is why the question to the VVD is whether they agree with the SP that at the moment we are going to develop new forms of energy, with a lot of money from the inhabitants of the Netherlands, we must ensure that it belongs to the inhabitants of the Netherlands and that the profits that are made on this are for the inhabitants of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u147	I agree with Mrs Leijten that many questions remain open about the hydrogen market in the future. The construction of the infrastructure lies largely with Gasunie, yet a public organisation to a certain extent. I agree with her that this debate should be held in this Chamber, but is that about Fit for 55 now? You know, we're not gonna fix it. It is a market organisation issue for the whole hydrogen economy of the future. I agree with you that, as a Chamber, we need to respond to this in good time, and I also agree with you that we need to look at how the benefits benefit our society as much as possible. So I agree with that and I would like to start the debate with you in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u148	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u149	My speech was finished, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u150	Were you at the very end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u151	Yes, I had come to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u152	Well, well, well. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every day we see the urgency increase. Scientists now indicate that climate neutrality in 2050 is actually ten years too late to achieve 1.5 degrees of warming. After adjusting the national targets during COP26, the UN believes that we are still heading for 2.7 degrees of warming. Like many other colleagues, my group and I welcome the Commission's measures in the 'Fit for 55' package and the proposals. It is good to hear that many people here in the Chamber think this is positive, even if it has to be more ambitious. Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress a number of important issues to the outgoing cabinet so that they can be taken into account in the ongoing negotiations. The 'Fit for 55' package is European and we must avoid using only national glasses. In the package, the Commission proposes to make cross-border renewable energy projects mandatory. The cabinet does agree with the importance, but prefers to leave it free of obligation, while there are many opportunities to move across borders. Is the Cabinet prepared to launch an investigation to see what is possible and where these opportunities lie to move forward with others? I'd like a response. I also agree with Mr Boucke's call for a high-speed network, which is not included in this package. In addition to CO reduction, emission-absorber technologies seem indispensable for achieving CO neutrality by 2050. The National Growth Fund that we have here in the Netherlands is not investing in these necessary technologies. There are start-ups, for example in Eindhoven, who together with TNO are developing technologies to extract CO from the air on a large scale. I therefore wonder what is the reason for the reluctant reaction of the outgoing cabinet to the European Investment Fund specifically focused on sustainable technology. Can the outgoing cabinet in Brussels give a positive opinion on the European Investment Fund and talk to innovative start-ups to see where thresholds for applications can be removed? Mr. Chairman. It is high time that the cabinet responded to the call of the present and future generations to secure their world and environment and avert a climate catastrophe. We do not need non-binding but binding targets, not a Renewable Energy Directive, but a Renewable Energy Regulation. The Netherlands does not need to be afraid of binding national targets at all. We can make 36% if we make more concrete plans and take people with us. The cabinet would like to be a frontrunner. How's it gonna realize that? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the feasibility. The Prime Minister called this the largest renovation in the Netherlands. That is why the question is: are we ready as the Netherlands too? While the urgency with regard to the changing climate grew, the Dutch government has become smaller and smaller, with the result that we have several life-size issues. It was also the subject of the BZK budget debate today. Now we're on the verge of this gigantic renovation. Does the State have the right and sufficient people to shape this transition? Is the government able to provide its share in energy infrastructure, for example increasing energy networks and hydrogen infrastructure? We need 28,000 technical people in the Netherlands. How are we going to achieve that, I ask the cabinet. What will the Netherlands look like in 2030? Does the cabinet have a view on this and share it with them? Mr. Chairman. Finally. A number of colleagues have already pointed out that it is important that this should also be a social transition. It is therefore a good thing that the price that polluters pay will go to those who also need this transition most, through the social climate fund. How is the cabinet going to ensure that this money actually reaches those people and that it is properly supervised and guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. We face a huge challenge. I expect that the cabinet will now also deliver on the desired front-runner role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. There is another interruption by Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u155	I've saved my only interruption for Volt. You are a European party. I like that. You're gonna stand up for it, too. There's always something of a tension between what are you doing European and what are you doing nationally? Could you reflect on that? You say that we must have strengthened renewable energy targets. So what are you doing nationally and what are you doing European? Do you think we should do more than Europe? Isn't that contrary to the European idea that we have to solve this together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u156	Of course, it is important that we do this together as Europe, but that does not relieve the Netherlands from taking a certain leading role, precisely because the Netherlands is one of those prosperous countries. But it would be nice if the Netherlands in Brussels were to argue that if Europe were to go even faster, but also, in consultation with other countries, to launch certain projects to shape these renewable energy projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr. Chairman. The further away from the kitchen table and the workplace, the easier it is to impose climate ambitions. That is, in essence, the inconvenience of the SGP in the current climate plans of Commissioner Timmermans. The Court has repeatedly asked for a thorough assessment of the subsidiarity and proportionality of climate plans. I read in the BNC chips about 130 times a positive note and four times a negative opinion, with some question marks in between. In short, even if we don't know exactly what it's gonna be like, we're positive. That, in my opinion, is exactly the wrong order. Where is the critical attitude, my question to the cabinet. The main argument is that climate and energy affect everyone and that the EU should therefore steer everything. And that's about it. I think that is an enormous erosion of the principle of subsidiarity. Where is the basis for the subsidiarity tests? What a difficult word, Mr President! Anyway, I got out and I don't think that's what I'm talking about anymore. Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State Yeşilgöz writes that only the results of the subsidiarity issue are there, he comes again and proportionality tests have been sent to the Chamber. But now it came out good, didn't it? However, the question to the Secretary of State is whether she would also like to send the underlying analyses to the Chamber. We think that a European emissions trading system for the industrial and energy sectors with an ever lower emission ceiling is very good. You really need European cooperation for that, but for the built environment, for example, that kite does not go on. Then the question is why we as SGP are so keen on this. Firstly, we want a government that is as close to the citizen as possible. I think the Cabinet wants that, too. We must be careful with the ever-expanding climate power of the European Commission. "It has to be Brussels" doesn't really help to get support from the people I just mentioned: Henk and Tine, Hendrik and Else-Marie, the ordinary people in the country. That's where the support should be. That will not happen if we keep great lofty stories in this Chamber or in Europe. Secondly, all kinds of sub-targets and rules from Brussels can cross the complex conversion of our energy supply. The Planning Bureau points that out, too. It is a very complicated combination of policy, market, technology and 17 million players in the field. You can't just pull out or push out building blocks, because before you know it, you have an unwanted domino effect or disproportionate impact on specific sectors. For example, the proposed Energy Taxation Directive could have a major impact on our tax system. Agreements on minimum rates? Fine. However, as far as the SGP is concerned, Brussels must refrain from degressivity and excise duty differences between petrol and diesel. The cabinet exudes far too much: we'll see where the ship is stranded. But if that ship is stranded, you're too late. FF55, the cabinet briefly completed the "Fit for 55" package of measures. As far as I am concerned, this is also what the cabinet emits: ff which reduces 55% of our CO emissions. I wish! I wish it were that easy, because unfortunately the cabinet is not aware of the possible consequences. That really hits me. We should not want to do this to the Netherlands. That looks like reckless governance, rash behavior. I see Urgenda standing by rubbing hands again. Then you know where we come from: then you have to do even more things that you really shouldn't want and not be sensible. Mr. Chairman. Mandatory 48% reduction in the built environment, agriculture, road transport and small industry in 2030 instead of the current 36%. That means a lot. The neighbourhood approach for the built environment is already slower than thought. Then deliver a third more in eight years? Well, tell me how you do that! The proposed emissions trading system for the built environment and road transport may mean €0.10 extra per cube of gas and per litre of petrol. Has this been added to the current panic about gas prices? At least half of all industrial hydrogen should be produced sustainably by 2030. That means quite a lot, namely converted 30 terawatts of extra sustainable energy production. This amounts to a doubling of renewable energy production capacity, which is still to be achieved under the Climate Agreement between now and 2030. How does the cabinet ever want to realize that? Because even abroad, that green hydrogen is hardly available. In short, will the cabinet oppose these plans? The Chamber asked the General Reviews by motion to carry out a more detailed analysis of the impact of climate plans on the non-ETS sectors, including the built environment, on households, SMEs and public expenditure. It is very good that the Central Planning Bureau is picking this up, because we need to get a picture as soon as possible and make a reservation until then. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a specific question for the Minister of I&W. How can the targets for aviation, maritime and maritime transport be achieved? Is the impact on these sectors, which make an important contribution to our economy, clear? Or do we sign with this before the end of our Rotterdam port, inland waterway transport and Schiphol? Mr President, in conclusion. It cannot be that the government ignores the potential consequences because the details of the proposals have not yet been completed and that, if the details become crystal clear, the government says that we are too late to be able to change anything. Because yes, we also think we should get rid of fossil fuels, but not by going through our Dutch porcelain cabinet with the Brussels elephant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u159	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Today it is essentially a question of what we want to preserve, what we want to preserve and what we want to protect. That question will be at the heart of Glasgow next week and it will be at the heart of today when we talk about a European approach to a less heated climate. Eventually, the answer to that question begins where we live, where we work and where we take care of each other. We in the Christian Union do not believe in utopias. We are not of the makeability and we are not of high goals without deeds. We are a club that stands for the good life and for enjoying enough. This means a life that is more devoted to connectedness with what is given to us: creation and creatures. Beautiful, but vulnerable at the same time. This means, for example, less focus on consumption and on a 24-hour economy, where everything we want must come from anywhere at any time, at the expense of much, if not everything. Only in this way, with this focus, can European climate policy succeed. Mr. Chairman. We face a great challenge and change. We know that in such a transition there are always winners and losers. With that in mind, too, we are looking at all these large European proposals of thousands of pages. Do they contribute to the good life and to good deeds, and do we take good care of what is vulnerable? Mr. Chairman. I read that the cabinet feels that climate policy has little to do with income policy. At the same time, the climate and energy transition can be a future mismatch. Soon, after this debate, we are talking about a gigata meeting through the energy bill because of the rapid increase in gas prices. If that's not income policy, then what is? Mr. Chairman. My point is clear. Take, for example, the built environment. Is it social to hunt down tenants who cannot isolate their homes or property owners who cannot afford sustainability by increasing energy prices but not helping them? We should not fall into semantic discussions, but if you start pulling these people out of trouble by isolating their homes, that is good climate policy and good income policy at the same time. There's another side of this medal. We must pay close attention to the regional distribution of growth to employment and to the potential loss of employment. I miss that aspect in all reports on the climate and energy transition of this cabinet and the planning agencies. What does Vak-K really look like about that? Mr. Chairman. I come to a sector that still has a lot of gas, or rather not, namely mobility. This sector, including aviation and shipping, has not shrunk since 1990 in terms of its reduction, but is still more prone than in 1990. The Netherlands has long wanted only new sales of emission-free cars in 2030, but now Germany seems to be coming alongside them. My question to the Secretary of State is: does that offer a perspective to accelerate the timetable from 2035 to 2030? There is also a significant reduction in the field of agriculture and land use. However, the common agricultural policy, the European Farm to Fork strategy and the Fit for 55 goals I haven't made up the names "land use" yet are not compatible and may get ugly piled up on the farmyard. What is the government's commitment to this? At the same time, there are opportunities. Farmers can play a crucial role in capturing CO. To what extent is this a new link to the strain of the pressured income model of farmers? How can the European Union and the Cabinet give an impetus to earning carbon storage in the soil? For example, there is still a lack of a certified system to attach a carbon credit to an agricultural method. What is the government going to do to bring this method and this system closer, so that farmers are going to contribute to tackling climate change and be able to eat a sandwich of it? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the hydrogen debate. Some colleagues have already asked questions about this, about the realism of the hydrogen targets of the European Union. I'd like to join in on that. The impact on the financial viability of other desired innovations is likely to be very high. Take, for example, cracking. This is an industrial process at about 850 degrees Celsius, which, as one of the most prominent sources of CO emissions with six squatters in the Netherlands, is responsible for about 5 million tonnes of CO emissions per year. If 50% of green hydrogen becomes a binding target, two developments will be undermined. First of all, the electric cracking, which is being worked hard. Direct electric cracking costs four times less energy than hydrocracking. We're not going to make that impossible by going mono-moon for hydrogen, while other routes that the Secretary of State is funding are much and much more efficient. The second, more importantly, is hydrogen from residual gases. This can be used, for example, to make old plastic completely new virgin plastic or for the energy supply of companies or buildings in the area. The financing of this decision will fall next year and will come to an end with the inclusion of circular hydrogen as green hydrogen and not as blue or grey hydrogen. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for doing so? Is he going to work for this in Europe? Does the Secretary of State wish to speed this up, so that the investment cycle of 2022 can be clarified? Finally, Mr President. I fully agree with Mr Dassen's feasibility questions. Soon we'll have high goals, shiny policies, but no golden hands to realize all that. It is an issue that could be amidships in this transition. I'd like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fit for 55 is indeed not the new gym for overweight European Commissioners that we had already established but a very thick package of Frans Timmermans, who wants to get Europe CO-neutral in 2050. It's not tender. What does Fit for 55 mean for us, for the Netherlands? How much does it cost us? What's in it for you? And what are the consequences? That is what we consider relevant questions with JA21. While we ourselves have the right answer in the name, that is not the answer we would like to see. The thing we read doesn't make us very happy. Fit for 55 has all the characteristics of a so-called planned economy. It is perhaps a bit like the Thijssen model: a blueprint that allows the market and everyday life of ordinary people to be managed in detail. By making use more expensive, people and businesses are forced off fossil. The European Commission instructs consumers and producers not only to do what they have to do, but also to do what they have to do, for example by making Member States throw the energy tax system at the bush. What about the unfeasible binding obligation of 50% green hydrogen within the use of hydrogen in industry? The PBL indicates that the transition in the Netherlands up to 2030 is likely to be significantly more expensive, but how much more expensive? What does the Secretary of State think of this micromanagement with potentially major consequences from Brussels for the wallet of many Dutch people? What does she think about the fact that the clean Netherlands, also the largest EU net contributor, as a rich Member State gets one of the highest reductions? Speaking of the wallet of the Dutch, look, we would have liked to have heard more about that. We have had the debate in committee. You promised me that you would write a letter for today's debate which would deal with the transfer of costs for households, SMEs and public expenditure. I got that letter yesterday, but it doesn't really include a bill. It's the same information. In such a large operation, can't you expect there to be a proper cost-benefit analysis underneath? I've said it before: I think I'm a climate realist. No matter how you feel about it, you're gonna need that analysis. What does it mean? What do we pay for it? I only hear parties from the left that say "it has to be faster, faster, faster, tempo, tempo, tempo," but guys, on the hand brake: what does it cost us and what does it get? That's what's important to me. I'm reading about a higher fuel bill. This has also been the subject of other contributions. I read about owners of petrol and diesel cars. I read about the increase in the energy bill. And so on. We see that the energy bill in the Netherlands is already exploding. We see the energy poverty in which people find themselves. People are literally in the cold. The European Commission is asking us to increase costs even further. As a rich country, we get a poor return of money. The point is that as a rich Member State we will contribute a lot and get little back. According to the EU, the calculation of these 55% emissions amounts to EUR 1.3 trillion. There are already calculations, for example from Lomborg, that say it's going to be 4 to 5 billion, that it's going to be a lot more money. Those are such immense differences that you can ask what that is. And when you add that a country like China can simply blow over our bet in a few days' time, it has already been said that the effectiveness of the whole operation is very, very, very demand and arbitrary. In short, for JA21 it is clear. We are not waiting for climate statements from Brussels, which are also poorly substantiated in terms of cost. We will lose a lot of money and get little in return. I therefore call on the Cabinet to oppose this plan, this manifesto. That's not gonna happen. We'll see that at JA21. At the same time, we hope again for the wise men from the East. In this case, Poland will be able to continue the veto that has been announced and thus turn the threat into reality which will save us this package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mrs van der Plas of BBB. I hear Mrs Van der Plas asking if she can go after Mr Jansen. That's not a problem. When Mr. Jansen is ready, we'll switch it. I call Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u164	Thank you. The European Commission wants European countries to reduce CO emissions by 55% in 2030 compared to 1990 levels. By 2050, the whole of the European Union must be climate neutral. The costs are going to be astronomical and the revenues will be completely negligible. If you already believe in that whole CO-story, it doesn't make any sense for the Netherlands to participate. We are now going to do everything we can to halve our CO emissions in eight years. 1,000 billion for degassing homes and buildings. Everyone commits to the heat pump. Rising energy bills by hundreds of euros a year. Hundreds of billions of grants for new electric cars. Another hundreds of billions of grants for windmills, solar fields, biomass and hydrogen. To make all this work, we also need to invest hundreds of billions in strengthening the power grid. The Netherlands emits about 170 megatons of CO per year. That's about 1,300 megatons in the next eight years to 2030. China emits that same amount of CO in one month. Our saved CO will be blown into the air by Chinese coal plants within a few days. And that for thousands of billions. Why are we doing this? In 2014 I had a lecture by Dr. Robin Pistorius, lecturer at the UvA. He talked about the danger of climate change for the Pacific island groups. He said in two years' time that was when the island of Tuvalu would be completely underwater. Five years later, the tropical island is still not flooded. In fact, it's grown 73 hectares since 1970. And that's the problem with this whole climate story. People like UvA teacher Pistorius spread the greatest possible nonsense, pure fake news. It's scary, and they're never gonna be called upon to do it. They are never corrected and they are never held liable. Probably he's still telling us that in two years' time this island will be underwater. That's the way it goes all the time. We see headlines all the time and we hear speeches claiming that a tilt point has been reached and that we have only ten, five or one year left. That's scary shit. It's always predictions that never come true. The scaremongers get away with it all the time. They'll never be called upon to do it. Room's full of them. The day before yesterday, the KNMI published a new report, in line with this fearmongery, in which it predicts that sea level off the Dutch coast could have risen 2 meters by the end of this century. It is an absurd prediction as the Dutch sea level rises by 1.8 millimeters per year. If you go through that to 2100, you're talking about 20 centimeters instead of 2 meters. That's a factor 10 down. It's a total lie. Like all the other doomsday prophets, the people of the KNMI will never be held responsible for this. These people, whose followers are sitting here in the chambers, have terrified a whole generation of children of the end of the world. These people are making sure that we are about to sacrifice our entire national prosperity for a vague story about the weather. Instead of the media holding these people accountable, exposing their financial interests and denying their lies, they participate. You can't watch NOS news, you can't watch news or talk programmes, I would advise anyone to watch those programmes without hearing at least five times per broadcast that the world will perish within now and ten years. There is a constant flow of disinformation and it is necessary to make the people believe that something is going on. 'Cause if you look outside, you don't get it. We will continue to denounce this. We will continue to expose these lies. We want to end the expensive and pointless climate policy. We do not want to spend thousands of billions for perhaps, possibly 0.00007 degrees less warming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u165	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u166	I have two more sentences, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u167	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u168	Not a mandatory European climate law, but leaving the European Union. We must again choose the Netherlands and the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u169	What message does colleague Jansen have to science and measurements? The sea level increase off the Dutch coast has been 1.9 millimeters per year since 1890. The fact that it is so and that there is no acceleration in our national series of measurements has also to do with something like a gravitational effect, which means that the sea level in Greenland is rising more quickly and not yet here. Does Mr Jansen recognise this and has he incorporated it into his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u170	Yes, it is true that sea levels are rising at different speeds worldwide. That's right. Nevertheless, the global average is 30 centimeters per century. That goes a bit faster than in the Netherlands, but it is still not the dramatic increase you would expect if the story turns out to be true. It is certainly not in line with the 2 meters at the end of the century. This morning we had a technical briefing from Mrs. Snakes, I say out of my mind. She also said in the newspaper that sea levels could rise by 2100 feet or maybe 7 metres. It is noteworthy that the same report talks about a situation that is going on for thousands of years. It's all very selective. The truth is, there's not much going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u171	It's not all very selective in itself. A new top of the possible sea level rise was presented by the KNMI at the end of this century. There are different scenarios, but in the end it's not the question if it's gonna happen but when it's gonna happen. Whether it's at the end of this century or the next century, there's a sea level rise and there's worldwide acceleration measurable. What message does Mr Jansen have on that? In the end, we know that with the current warming we will see for thousands of years an after-fall effect when it comes to sea level. What lesson does Mr Jansen draw from such facts? They don't seem to sound like them in his speech, and then I think I form it quite euphemistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u172	The word "facts" is rather relative in this regard. This is all about projections and predictions. I have already pointed out that these predictions do not come true all the time. The whole story of acid rain, that forests were extinct in the year 2000 and all that stuff. Well, come on, why don't you come to the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u173	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u174	All these predictions don't come true all the time. It's scary all the time. Take James Hanson, for example. In 1988, he gave that big speech for the American Congress. In the same year, he says: if we do not take drastic action now, the west side of Manhattan will be under water in 20 or 30 years. That didn't happen. That just didn't happen. Al Gore made a whole movie about this. The British judge has now banned sending them to schools because there are so many untruths in them. It's not a good time. The North Pole should be ice-free by summer 2015. None of that happened. All these prophecies always don't come true. The prediction of the KNMI you are referring to is about the absolute top of the absolutely unlikely scenario. It's gonna be in the paper. That is constantly being told to children at school: your world will perish. But the nuanced story is not told. The same applies to the IPCC report. It can simply be read that these very high scenarios of sea level rise 1. are very unlikely and 2. may occur over a period of thousands of years. So we're not talking about decades and an undercurrent Netherlands. That's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u175	I note that Mr Jansen is not answering my question. My question was not about the extremes and what we should be prepared for in 2100. My question was more about it happening. When it happens, it depends on the speed at which the effects of climate change become visible. There's already so much CO in the air that we're just gonna see thousands of years of after-life effects in terms of sea level rise. I asked you to respond to that, but we are not going to get much further. My last question. I think Mr Jansen is in a bit of a conservative tradition, at least I hope so when I see the birth papers of his movement. In a conservative tradition, the first thing you do is take good care of your environment, right? You do that out of love and from some kind of precautionary principle. Where did this go in Mr Jansen's speech in the Forum for Democracy and in Mr Jansen's speech in relation to climate policy and in relation to monitoring what is happening around us? It is measurable at sea level, not only off the Dutch coast, but also for Greenland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u176	Still, about what you said about you or you, sorry about what you said at the beginning. I think I have accepted it, but I will clarify it. That's what I meant when I said it should be about facts. Mr Grinwis presents it as if it were facts when he says it will be so in thousands of years, but it is predictions. I've been trying to sketch out that I don't believe those predictions are coming true. I do not therefore believe that this would necessarily be the case. It could be the case, because everything can and we don't know what the future will look like. The climate has been changing for thousands, millions and even billions of years, so that will also happen in the future. So you can't say much about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u179	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB for her contribution. I think she was glad it took a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u180	Yes, thank you. Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands and people in the gallery. First of all, I would like to make a small correction to what Mr Van der Lee said. He indicated during his input that methane is the strongest greenhouse gas, and that's not true. I ran out of interruptions, so I'm just gonna do it like this. According to the CBS, Methane is equal to 25 CO equivalent. For nitrous oxide, that's 298, more than ten times as much. And then there are so-called F-gases, such as chillers that may be in the air conditioning in Diederik Samsom's room, or in the refrigerator in Mr Timmermans' kitchen, which may have a CO equivalent of more than 23 000. I just wanted to mention that. Mr. Chairman. We are constantly living in crises today. The corona crisis, the biodiversity crisis, the climate crisis, the nitrogen crisis and the housing crisis. Calling something a crisis now seems to be the way to gain support for policy. You just call the subject a crisis and then you use words like "alarm" and "disaster." You call your children and grandchildren, who are doomed if we do nothing. Scaring people and creating fear: it has proved to be a wonderful method of taking rigorous measures, the effect of which we do not know in the longer term, but which cost people at home a lot of money. What also goes with the method is the following. People who question the crisis, come up with different insights or ask questions about the measures are called deniers. Climate explorer, corona denier, nitrogen explorer. They are portrayed as people who are stupid or far-right. They're being thrown away just because those people have an uncomfortable opinion. So you want the Netherlands to flood? So you don't want a future for your kids? So you want the Earth destroyed? And then you hope these people get so tired of this kind of weird methodology that they just don't let their critical notes hear anymore and keep their mouth shut. So we don't do that. Mr. Chairman. The problem is that creators of this policy, whether in the Netherlands or in the European Union, are themselves paid so heavily that they do not have to lie awake about how to pay the bill for the development of the policy. They don't have to deny themselves a plane trip. The hardworking citizens do. They're gonna pay the price. The climate plans will also increase the cost of producing food, and so there will be higher food prices. There are already growers in the Netherlands who are empty because of high energy prices. In the end, citizens will see that in the price of food. The outgoing cabinet has great ambitions and the Netherlands wants even more than we are asked to do. Does the cabinet know exactly what consequences this has for people in the Netherlands and their disposable income? Do we know exactly what we are contributing to combating climate change? And if so, will the Secretary of State share this with us? Can the Secretary of State undertake not to agree to the plans as long as the impact on the incomes of households and businesses in the Netherlands is unclear? It is not just the income of our citizens, but even the health that seems to be of secondary importance here. Today, for example, it became known that there is a conflict of interest in research into the health effects of windmills. How will the Secretary of State ensure that our people's interests are better balanced in the climate approach? And then I would rather not answer in the vein of the "climate is in everyone's interest" because there are several ways that lead to Rome. I was almost reassured when I read in the chip about broad prosperity. I know that a motion has already been tabled. The cabinet considers the plans on the quality of life aspect for the present generation to be positive. I almost fall off my seat when I read that the costs for citizens and businesses are rising, but that the quality of life is being hung from cleaner air and a CO-free energy system. I know oxygen and water are basic necessities, but so is food. With the rising prices, residents of the Netherlands can walk until they have enough money to buy healthy and safe food, but if they don't have enough money to buy healthy and safe food, the latter will soon be gone. What does the price of all climate measures really mean for the quality of life? When will the Secretary of State come forward with this pass-through? My final questions. Why does the Secretary of State tweet about the KNMI report on the 1 to 2 meter sea level increase, while actual measurements show that the North Sea level is only rising by 1.8 millimeters per year on average? Why doesn't the Secretary of State share actual measurements? Is the Secretary of State prepared to point out to consumers in the Netherlands that if they eat meat, eggs and dairy products, they should do this from Dutch make, because of the low ecological footprint? If not, why not? How is the IPCC message that cows have three to four times less climate impact than was always thought? How is this taken into account in policy? Actually, that's it. There was another scribble, but that wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u181	A bit of an abrupt end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u182	Yes, thank you. That's possible, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u183	There is still Mr Grinwis, with his last interruption, for a nice conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u184	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I saved it for Mrs. Van der Plas. The reason for my question to her is what she said about high gas prices and the consequences for gardeners. Yeah, they're horrible. It sounded a bit like that because we have to be careful with climate policy, but maybe I misunderstood that. It would be fantastic for gardeners if they were no longer dependent on Russian gas, but on heat from their own soil. It would also be fantastic if we were to help gardeners by ensuring that the heat price is no longer linked to the gas price and that we help them to electrify without a penalty through a storage of renewable energy. When we take these steps, horticulture becomes greener, it is less dependent on Putin's expensive gas and we help not only horticulture but also the world a little further. There was some concern in the words of Mrs van der Plas. I'll share that. It also sounded a little too negative, while there are opportunities to help the horticulture further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u185	Mr. Grinwis, I can only agree with you. I fully agree with that, but at the moment this is not the case. At the moment, people are facing higher energy prices. The same applies to consumers and citizens. I'm very much in favour of alternatives. You can see with plant protection products that you should not throw everything overboard immediately, or whatever, but also provide alternatives that work well, and then as soon as possible. You will therefore find me entirely on your side in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u186	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I suggest we suspend until 6:40 p.m., including dinner break. Then we immediately proceed to the first term on the side of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u187	The next item is the debate on the European Commission's 'Fit for 55' package. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate will start and will also indicate what the rest of the order is. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start the answer. Maybe it's okay if I mention my folders. The spokesmen are now used to it in our debates. I'd like to answer all the questions, so that means we all have separate folders. Subsequently, the Minister of IenW, the Secretary of State for IenW and the Secretary of State for Finance will speak in turn. After my general story and a number of questions that I may have gathered a little less clear folder, then the clear folders come up. These include the ETS, the ESA, the effort sharing regulations, and the Social Climate Fund. Then a folder will be renewable. This includes a number of issues, such as hydrogen and biomass. Then I have the map of agriculture. I must say that the colleagues from Agriculture and Home Affairs are not here at the moment. I will do my best to answer the questions on agriculture, but I hope that the Members of Parliament will give me the opportunity to refer this matter to my colleague if it becomes too specific. But we'll see about that. That's my order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u189	Thank you. I have agreed with the Members of Parliament: five questions or comments. Let's see how far we can get with four rulers. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u190	Mr. Chairman. Climate change affects all of us. That is why we need to work together to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, namely 55% CO reduction in Europe by 2030. I said it earlier in a committee debate: when I was a climate spokesperson in the Chamber, we sent Minister Wiebes straight to Brussels in the second or third week to argue for a higher goal in Europe, namely 55%. It took him a while. The first few times he came back from Brussels, he said: I will continue to argue for it, but there is not much enthusiasm for it. I am very happy and proud, quite frankly, that, partly because of the Dutch commitment and the commitment of this Parliament, 55% was finally set as a goal in Europe. Why is it so important now to do this at European level? Because by coming into action together, you can just do more. With 27 Member States and around 450 million inhabitants and businesses, it will soon be possible to make agreements, such as the Fit for 55 package, which puts Europe at the forefront of ambitious climate policies. With this package, Europe is sending out a clear signal worldwide, also in the run-up to the Glasgow climate summit. It starts next week and I know that many Members of Parliament and colleagues will go there. It also puts pressure on other countries outside the EU to be more ambitious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u191	The Secretary of State has only just begun, but there's already been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u192	It was also a very exciting introduction. I'll give you that. I was impressed myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u193	It's like a thriller. Mr Boucke of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u194	I was indeed concerned with something the Secretary of State said in her introduction. She talked about the need to work together in Europe, its importance and the benefits that we can have. I am a little surprised, though, because last week, with the rising gas prices that affect us all in Europe, we read that the cabinet has gone with the economical four. I wondered why the cabinet did not inform the Chamber of this in advance. We had a debate with the Secretary of State just before, but then nothing was said about it. This seems to me to be an excellent subject in which we should work together in Europe. In any case, it is worth a debate before the cabinet takes such a stand on this in Europe. So I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u195	When we spoke during the committee debate about the process in which we were at that time, we were sitting two days before we were discussing in the Council of Ministers how we could deal with rising energy prices and how we could compensate people. So I didn't know exactly what we'd come up with then either. However, we have shared the fact that each Member State has a different starting point and a different context: the countries around us have taken all kinds of different measures and that we should, above all, look at what we can do at national level. In my opinion, it's good that we've been thinking about this all this time.It was clear that we'd look at what we can do nationally to meet Dutch people as soon as possible. That's done. Think of the proposals from Europe. I don't think there was a toolbox back then either. It came about that day or just later. The toolbox from Europe showed what you can do mostly nationally and announces that together we can do more research on how we can better prepare ourselves for these kinds of things. That's the line we've connected to. So there hasn't been anything quite different or different from what the line was up to then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u196	I would like to make two points. One. On such important subjects I assume that I will not do so again before the cabinet puts this on the table before it goes to Brussels. We are talking here about a package of 13 proposals and 4,000 pages, if I may believe Mr Bontenbal. I assume that we will discuss this in detail before the cabinet goes to Brussels with a position. That is my first point. Secondly, on the content. I still have a question for the Secretary of State. You yourself state how important it is to work together in Europe to take advantage of that. When it comes to gas prices, does the Secretary of State not think that buying gas together can be a way to ensure at least that our families and our people in the neighbourhood get a lower gas price?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u197	If I remember correctly, this is exactly the point we discussed during the committee debate. We have said, I think it was a question of at least Volt....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm talking about rising gas prices. Just suppose that Europe would say as one block, for example to Russia: we are now going to buy together and this is the price we are offering. The scarcity is so great on the world market, so Russia will sell it anyway. Those analyses were made. There was a debate here with the Prime Minister before he went to Brussels for the Council in which he was present. That's what this was about. So I think we're on the same page as we set together. We have increased with European countries that share the same position as the Netherlands. Only, there are countries that say: you as a Europe should do much more. But that is not the immediate solution to the bottlenecks that Dutch households face. I think we are going to talk about this later, so I will keep that part brief. We are going to do so precisely by saying: we are going to see how we can meet you as soon as possible and how we can reduce or reduce as much as possible that increase that people are going to notice on their accounts. That will also depend on how fast that rises, because that is different for every household. Anyway, we're gonna talk about that later. Mr Boucke says, and he is absolutely right, that there are 13 sheets, 13 measures and legislative proposals with a lot of pieces underneath. The Netherlands is the first country and I know it is still the only country, but I am not entirely sure that every sheet has been so comprehensively reviewed and sent a response to Parliament. I know that we are the first parliament in Europe to really have a debate on the Fit for 55. I am very glad that we can now exchange our first thoughts on this. This also means that the negotiations in Europe are really about to begin. So it is good, I think, to get from the Chamber now what you all care about and how you stand in it. But I would like to return to the fact that we are already very far away at European level. Those negotiations are not yet at a detailed level, so we do not have to land somewhere today or next week and say: that is it. It's just starting now, so I'm really glad we can share that with each other so early. I'm gonna move on, because I see some critical looks because I'm talking too long. The "Fit for 55" package aims to make us stronger together, so that countries do not compete but strengthen each other. The package means for all Member States and all sectors and additional steps, but through cooperation at European level we ensure that all companies in the EU have to comply with the same rules. By doing so, we will prevent companies from emitting more in countries across the border. These rules ensure a fair playing field for all countries and entrepreneurs, including the hard-working entrepreneurs in our own country. Mr. Chairman. A fair playing field ensures that companies stay in the Netherlands, that the jobs stay here and that more jobs are added. For example, if we impose stricter requirements on car manufacturers in Europe, it will speed up the supply of more affordable electric cars. The EU as a major market player then makes a big difference. So that's when you do work together. It is difficult to standardize products as the Netherlands. If we do it alone, it will not be effective, expensive in subsidies and we will hunt companies across the border. Raising together and making agreements increases our chances of being the frontrunner with a sustainable, innovative economy. Similarly, we are going to further strengthen the European system which will ensure that older coal plants are closed down or modernised. This makes cleaner energy more attractive for many Dutch people. Joint policies therefore have great advantages. But there are also proposals from the European Commission that we ask questions or are reluctant about. For example, the cabinet is questioning the new social climate fund to provide direct income supplements; I shall come back to this later. A first exchange of views on the Fit for 55 package took place at the last Environment Council on 6 October. As I said, we were the first European country there to share the cabinet position around the package publicly and to be able to discuss it in Parliament. Many Member States are still studying it. That means that the force field is actually still in motion. We are also far from finished talking about the package. All EU Member States should bear a fair share of the higher tasks and costs. You can imagine that for the time being we can still differ on what the definition of 'an honest part' will be. We will pay close attention to how the measures work out in practice for Dutch people and, of course, for their wallets. We are at the start of negotiations which will last at least a year and perhaps even longer. Gradually, it will become increasingly clear where these negotiations lead. We will therefore continue to discuss it with each other on a regular basis. This will be done in this context, with the Committee on Climate and Energy, but also in all the other Councils, i.e. with Mr van Landbouw, that of IenW and that of BZK. So there are a lot of times when each measure can be looked at separately, of course, always integrally and to what it means for the whole. Mrs Leijten asked which interests prevail. How can we determine exactly what the government is doing? I can see where that question comes from, especially when you see how extensive the package is. The majority of the Chamber wanted us to argue for 55%. That succeeded, but then you get happy with some of the content, but another part of it raises questions. That's quite right. It's a lot, too. So it is very important that we understand what we are doing in Brussels. Where we are being sent and what my proposal is, is now on the table. That is what this debate is about, in the light of the BNC fact sheets on the proposals. In addition, every time we formally discuss a proposal in Brussels, so at the Environment Council, Energy Council, Transport Council and so on, the Chamber is informed through annotated agendas and reports. We are also going to debate these councils with each other in preparation, not only with me, but also with my colleagues. In addition, the agreement has been made to send your Room an overview of the intermediate position of all the files in the package every six weeks. That is the moment when we bring it together, so that it is not all loose-fast, but always coming together. Perhaps it is just as good to add, although Mrs Leijten knows this and it is also in the pieces, that the interests we are looking closely at include the impact on households, SMEs, businesses, the cost-effectiveness of the proposals and the whole package, and the impact of a level playing field in Europe, because we want to keep the jobs here and also reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u198	I know the system of the annotated agendas. I also know the agreement that we will be kept fully informed. But we all know about the flow of pieces, debates and all of them. Would it be possible to agree that if something is decided or tapped at an Environmental Council, which is a different view or has a different outcome than the Dutch Government's, we will be informed of it without delay? We have the systematic that there are always reports of guessing. But if I had to puzzle in all those councils "hey, something happened"... Could the Secretary of State, the Cabinet think about how it could do that more quickly? We are often already informed through the media about things that are being discussed in Brussels. That is the dynamic; there is no reproach in that. But it would be a pity if we had to look at a great deal of sub-sections or footnotes, if something really big had happened which perhaps was not the commitment of the Netherlands or in which a compromise was reached. Would the cabinet like to think about how we are a little more active there... Not to the detriment of that commitment and of how we've already agreed on this, but you've only just had the six-week review and two days later something happens. Would the cabinet like to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u199	Oh, yeah. I'm in a ministry. I have dozens, hundreds of officials helping me with this. Still it takes me a lot of time and effort to understand this and understand this: okay, what is it, what is the order, what is the process? Not so long ago, I was a MP, so I know how much work it is to do on your own or with a few employees, and that's still a lot of room for most MPs. Perhaps we can agree that I will see how we can make this clearer, that we will clearly put 'Fit for 55' in the reports and in the agendas, for example, and that we will formulate it as clearly as possible. That's a little bit of how I understand the question. It doesn't necessarily need to be more often unless something intermediate happens that is relevant. Of course, I think this is a relevant request; well informed is also part of the work. I'm also looking at how we can make that even clearer and more insightful. If Mrs Leijten says it doesn't work for her, we'll think about it again. I very much agree with the request, but I have to find out how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u200	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u201	Thank you. There is first an interruption by Mr Eerdmans of JA21 and then by Mr Bontenbal of the CDA. Always look behind you, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u202	Yeah, you always have to look back. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's I'd like to go to the level playing field, the level playing field the Secretary of State mentioned. We are not going, I hope, to solve energy poverty in southern or eastern Europe. I think we have to deal with them here. In the feeble bill we see now, you see that the energy bill for a household goes up by €100 on average and the fueling becomes €85 more expensive. That is €200 in additional costs, to increase charges. What do we get in return? The fund, the climate fund, from which we get 1.11% back according to the key. Before going into the maze of Europe with indeed regular reporting and so on, I think it is important to know in the front: what is your position, what is the position of the Netherlands, how far do you want to go? I've asked you to look at that wire transfer earlier. What's this gonna cost us? I am very concerned that we are going to contribute a lot to this whole project without getting anything in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u203	I hope that in every piece I send it is visible that I share the concerns and concerns. It is a very important part of what we are doing here to sharpen and monitor step by step each time: what does this do for the Dutch, for SMEs, for our business? We have to keep doing that with each other. The tricky thing today is that these negotiations have yet to begin. That's what was in yesterday's letter, and that's what the planning agencies are showing. To my knowledge, we are the first parliament to talk about it at all. This means that, as time goes on, what kind of package is coming out of it is becoming increasingly clear. For me it is very important that we share what the Dutch commitment is. The target is not in question: 55%. A majority of the House wants it, and we want it. That has also been our own commitment. Then you get all these measures. By measure, we have doubts about this: are we enthusiastic or are we reluctant? I'll be right back on the climate fund, if you don't mind. But we're reluctant to do that. This has to do with the fact that there are, for example, other funds from which funds can be used for similar purposes. The level playing field was really about business. We would like to see the same rules and requirements applied at European level to businesses, so that companies do not move to neighbouring countries, take jobs and investment, and perhaps go out there more than was allowed in our country. That's the part about the level playing field. But I fully agree with Mr Eerdmans: you are not going to do anything and afterwards see what that meant. You keep an eye on that, but I can't fill it out past the decimal point today. As the planning agencies showed, we can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u204	I would also like to look at the story of Mr Erkens. It belongs to your own party, of course. He also says that on a number of points we should simply hang on to the brakes, and that is not for nothing. Let me put it this way: do you have any use if we give you an order on the front side of the House of Representatives, from "so far and no further" or "this is the bandwidth within which the Netherlands can operate"? I am really afraid that we are going to go into a process in which we are going to come home from very cold carnivals with each other. I am referring to the energy bill and the fuel bill, all facets for people in the Netherlands. Other colleagues have already said: it is about the wallet and it is about this and now, next week, next month, next year. It's a mega-project with mega-consequences. How do we keep that chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u205	Rightful question. I actually have two things to do with that. First, the European negotiations, the whole process. If you look at this alone, you will see that it is very complex and the European process is also very complex. I do not think that it would help the cabinet if the Chamber were to restrict the negotiating area very much, because I want to sit at those tables and I want to be able to make our commitment there clear. If I have to leave the table at some point, I can't. So I see that as a more clumsy way of achieving what I think we want. Then the second. What if, after a year and a half, you have a negotiation result that you say was: this was the maximum achievable from the Netherlands, we're going to get to work on this, this is going to be it. Then it's up to the cabinet, I hope there's a new cabinet soon to see how that can be translated into national policy and how you can then meet people, see what is needed, what support is needed. That is a very important part, but that is after that because you have it sharp. That's also up to a new cabinet. I heard Mr Eerdmans right. There were other colleagues of his who asked what it means and how you're going to compensate. Of course, I can't fill that out today. My idea is that today I get the room to negotiate: this is your bet, go ahead. Then we keep an eye on each other and ask the planning agencies to keep an eye on it as well. The moment we say "okay, this is the package and this is going to be it for the Netherlands," we look at what additional national policies are needed to make it affordable and feasible for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u206	I would like to build on Mrs Leijten's question on the procedure. I myself, as a Member of Parliament, need, if this process is to last for two years or perhaps even longer, to have some sort of procedural scheme of when the major discussions take place. I imagine that you will not be able to fill in all the details when exactly what is happening. There are, also within the government, those project sites on which it is very well indicated when what comes. Wind at sea is a very good example. It says exactly when the tender is. Something like that, so that I can see there: then the big chunks come, then we are going to do this and this and this and then you as a parliament then and then have the opportunity to intervene. Something like that. Then we can do this process with each other for the next two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u207	I'd really like to have that, too. I turned that off a few times in our house. It also has to do with the fact that we do not know exactly how the next President, France, is going to set it up. And if this process lasts two years or one and a half years, you'll get different presidents. The question is, how are they going to organise the whole process? What we may be able to agree on is that every time, as far as we can look forward, we show that in that six-week briefing and at the moments that we are together. I'd like to understand that I'm not in charge of it myself. So as far as we can look forward, we'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u208	I'd like to check something out. You have just mentioned household compensation in response to a question from Mr Eerdmans. I've asked for a commitment. Are you talking about that now, or is that going to be a block of social climate fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u209	You can do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u210	You can do both. Well, I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u211	I'm a little afraid I'll have to give a similar answer when I gave Mr Eerdmans. I understand very well what Mr Thijssen is looking for, but I hope he agrees with me that we need to know first what we are getting at, what that whole picture looks like. After that, we can see much better what it means for our country, what kind of national policy you need and what extra is needed for it. The planning agencies now also show that it is actually very bad to calculate. Of course, there's an estimate to be made. As I said, we have only shared initial insights in the negotiations. I was there in Luxembourg and I can really tell you that that is at mega-head level, high still. So I'd say, let's see what we're getting at first. I very much agree with Mr Thijssen that acceptance is extremely important. I also hope that we are not going to show up here tonight that everyone's bill is suddenly going up tonight. That's not the point. We are now going into the process with each other, we are going to negotiate and we are keeping a close eye on the position of Dutch households, with help hopefully also from the planning agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u212	I agree with a lot of what the Secretary of State says. I understand that you are at the beginning of the negotiations, that we need to look at what comes out of them, how that goes down in the Netherlands and what additional Dutch policy is needed. But the Secretary of State and the Cabinet have a different starting point that they use in these negotiations, and that is that it must be feasible and affordable. I'd like to challenge the cabinet for that. Just go one step further and say: for low and middle incomes, we're not just going to make it affordable, we're going to make them make net progress, or at least not go backwards. Because that means that the populists in this country and the populists in this Chamber will not be able to say: yes, there is another EU project, and that will make the common man worse. Let's just get together now: people are going to have a better life of the fantastic work we're going to do on climate change, and that's what I'm going to go into the negotiations with. After that, if it is clear what comes out of the negotiations, we will talk about exactly how it should be implemented in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u213	As much as I understood the approach, I think this will be a very nice discussion and/or debate between Mr Thijssen and my successor in a new cabinet, because it will really be about it. But look what we've been doing over the past few months. I'm Secretary of State for six, seven months. In those six or seven months, if you also had the debate tonight, which we are about to have on energy prices, we could add more than EUR 10 billion, especially in the context of climate change, to accommodate people, to support them in isolation, to buy electric cars, to support the energy bill, without increasing that burden. So the stakes so far aren't bad, I guess. Even if you look at the 6.8 billion package last summer, which we may be able to consider for a little longer in the budget next week, you will see that we are releasing more than 500 million for insulation support. That's about the 20% worst isolated homes. In my view, this has an enormous interface with the target group Mr Thijssen is talking about. Look at what my colleague has cleared up here for additional incentives for the purchase of electric transport. So I'm clear on the angle. If you really want to fill it out, I'd say look what we're getting at with this package first. Otherwise it's not up to me, missionary, just before there's a new cabinet, we all hope to fill that out. I really can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u214	It's true, of course, what the Secretary of State says. There's a lot going on. But we will also see tonight in the follow-up to the Financial Reviews, that people who are now living in energy poverty go a little further into energy poverty, despite all the billions that are being cleared. That is why we are also going to propose tonight to give these people a rent discount if they live in a label G-house. Because then you're sure they won't get any worse from these high gas prices. But we're doing that debate tonight. So again: if you say "I am actually doing well and I am doing well with this cabinet," I don't understand why the commitment cannot be simply made: for low and middle incomes we are going to make life better by Fit for 55 and its implementation in the Netherlands. Last try! Otherwise, it'll be your successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u215	I hope that with all the climate policy that we are meeting and conducting here, people's lives will indeed get better. When I started here six or seven months ago, I said that I was sorry that climate debates are often or very technical or, in my words, quite acidic: people hear what they don't like, but the odds are in the middle. How do you make your home more comfortable? How do you make your life go forward? So we're gonna split that angle. But I do not think it is wise for me, as the outgoing Secretary of State, not only to take an advance on what a new cabinet might do in perhaps a few weeks' time, or months' time, when they are ready, but also to take an advance on negotiations that may last another one and a half years, two years and what that looks like. So for that reason, I am reluctant, but I fully share the idea of 'let climate policy be a good subject'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u216	First Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals and then Mr Erkens of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u217	I find it strange that the Secretary of State says: we wait for the negotiations and then see if it makes people better. That seems like a weird affair to me. Today we'll talk about it. We are talking about the main thrust of the Netherlands' commitment to the negotiations in the near future. Then, whatever Mr Thijssen has just said, you could take a fantastic starting point: a better life for middle and low incomes, that they improve. That is not the only important starting point I would like to advocate here. There is another one, namely that we are dealing not only with a climate crisis but also with a biodiversity crisis. They must be resolved in a coherent manner. My party has a number of concerns about Fit for 55, because on the one hand you can see that biomass is not excluded, which means that there can still be large-scale environmental damage, both in Europe and outside Europe. On the other hand, it is not excluded that the Forest Strategy and the EU Forest Act will have adverse effects on biodiversity abroad due to leakage effects. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take as a starting point that the strengthening of biodiversity is a prerequisite in the use of the Netherlands and in the "Fit for 55" package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u218	Now I run the risk of sitting on a colleague's wallet. It is an advantage that we are with so many people, but it is also a disadvantage that I sometimes have to refer to a colleague, because otherwise it would be very strange because the colleagues are only sitting here for fun. That seems more than a waste of their knowledge and expertise. I would be reluctant to add additional targets and conditions. We have the 55% target in Europe. The 'Fit for 55' package from Europe, I agree with Mrs Leijten on all these abbreviations and English terms, which already have a number of sub-objectives. We're not really in favour of that, but we say, okay, maybe they can help us. But I would really like to say: do not add any new sub-objectives and framework conditions, because then it will only be more difficult for us to negotiate there and be able to commit ourselves to goals that will help the Netherlands and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u219	I totally agree with changing that name, because I was just raving about it. However, the strengthening of biodiversity should not be a prerequisite at all. That's a no-go. We are dealing with a climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis. This package should do something about it. Surely it is not too much to ask to say: strengthening biodiversity is a prerequisite; we are going to ensure that this package does not cause any loss of biodiversity in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u220	55% CO reduction is going to be difficult enough as it is. Let's have that as a goal. Let's see how the purple targets that are in it can help, but don't add any additional targets, I'd like to say. I understand, but that just makes it more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u221	In our speech, too, the focus was on affordability for households. We also have concerns about this in this package, in addition to what Mr Thijssen just said. I understand that the Secretary of State cannot undertake that we can actually compensate certain aspects of a package that is not yet established by means of a specific measure. I get that. At the same time, negotiations are under way and a majority of the House is concerned about this. Can the Secretary of State at least indicate that we are putting affordability at the heart of these negotiations all the time and in how the cabinet will ultimately deal with them? I hope you heard me; the microphone is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u222	I'm sure I heard you. I know that the VVD, like other parties, says: fine if we can reach that 55% European with each other, but don't forget the affordability for Dutch households. That's also practically in every sheet we've sent and in the letter. As far as I am concerned, that is an extremely important common thread through these negotiations. I understand very well. I have the same inconvenience; you actually want to be able to translate it back and take steps now. That's not until the end of the ride, if you know what it's gonna look like, but the times I've been able to talk about this in Luxembourg, whether it was to share insights or to share chips, I've said all the time: all beautiful, but I want to know what this means for Dutch people and affordability, and how we'll deal with it nationally. That is also the commitment in Europe. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u223	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u224	This is my first folder, isn't it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u225	I'm gonna keep going on the same subject. It is clear that tackling climate change also leads to all kinds of redistribution, and that is also necessary. However, the question is whether we should discuss compensation only within the domain of climate and energy or whether we should simply consider it as income policy. From that perspective, I have a question. The proposal to extend the CO levy, or indeed the ETS system, to the built environment and mobility does not have much significance in terms of climate impact, but, as we see in this debate, leads to a complex discussion about compensation. The proposals that then circulate are again on the domain of climate and energy. This means that complexity only increases, while the real problem of distribution and the question of which people are most affected are usually not well achieved in this way. What's the cabinet's stance? Is one critical of this part, precisely for this reason? Because I see that, and I do not understand that, a change in the attitude of the cabinet. People were critical and they are now much more positive. I don't understand why that happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u226	If you don't mind... I do not really like to say 'I will come up with that', because the question is being asked now, but I have a whole pile here that has to go through. Ladies and gentlemen next to me and behind me may not know that, but we will never reach the second deadline in climate debates, so this may take a while. But it is a very important question. Can I come back to that later? The extension of ETS is a good point. I very much agree with what Mr Van der Lee said. At least, I think he meant it that way, and otherwise I would like to make that point at least for a moment, namely that you should not be pursuing income policy from climate policy. It must always be in conjunction, integral, with the purchasing power effects. This also has to do with my previous reaction to the colleagues who say: what can you do now? I'm gonna go on for a while, because... No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u227	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. I do not wish to disturb you, Secretary of State, but during this debate a Member of Parliament present here tweeted about another Member of Parliament present here. That was about the debate. That way someone is not addressed and someone cannot defend himself. I have often experienced a separate debate during the debate with framing on Twitter, and I find that very annoying. I would like to make the general appeal to each other in this debate, because this is where it takes place. This is where you have to talk to each other about it. Of course movies are made and everything is used, but I think that double play, both on Twitter and here in the debate, is very much to be seen. I just wanted to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u228	I want to support you in that. The debate is taking place in this plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u229	I'm going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u230	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u231	Yes. Mrs Teunissen rightly made a point: the more you do, and in my words, the more you do internationally, the more cost-effective it is. She asked: when will the Netherlands join the frontrunners, such as Norway? Mrs Teunissen and I have talked about this before. The Netherlands is part of a leading group in Europe. We were one of the first countries to argue for 55%. I'm very glad that's there now. Personally, I'm not in favour of setting higher goals every time, without knowing how you're gonna get them. It is difficult enough to look in our own country at how we are going to do it, let alone talk about a fair distribution among European countries. We are very active, in our country, in Europe and internationally, also later in Glasgow, in achieving climate ambitions, so I would say: let's do what we have to do first. That's already challenging enough. Mrs Teunissen also wanted to know whether the cabinet would continue to make maximum efforts to achieve the 1.5 ̊C target. The Netherlands is committed to this 1.5 degree goal within the EU and also as a country by implementing the "Fit for 55" package and the Dutch Climate Agreement. 55% in 2030 and on the road to climate neutrality by 2050. If we can do that, the Commission believes that this is in line with the 1.5 degrees. That is absolutely what the stakes will be, also later in Glasgow. Mr Bontenbal asked: can you, as a government, use too many instruments? I think so. That's a good question, but good thing: in relation to what we're doing here. We have to walk together on a narrow path. On the one hand, we need to ensure that we are really going to achieve the goals and on the other hand, we need to be able to put it into practice as a society. This combination of ambition and speed sometimes requires several measures. That is also why, as a cabinet, we said: okay, we can live with sub-targets, when we actually agreed on one central goal, which was 55%. The proposed package focuses on the most cost-effective route. This will require a combination of objectives, pricing, standardisation and, in the Commission's view, a policy of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u232	An interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u233	I do not know if this is exactly the place, but Mrs Leijten's remark did keep me busy. I suspect she's referring to a video I posted on Twitter. I did it on my own time at dinner. I'd like to decide for myself what I put on Twitter in my spare time. If Mrs Leijten or anyone else has a problem with that, she can just say that to me. I suspect that's what this is about. I don't know, but I want to get it out of the world right away. In my spare time, I just do what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u234	I see this as a personal fact. I would also like to give Mrs Leijten a chance to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u235	What Mrs Van der Plas did was to make another comment in her speech. I think that's right. She came back to something that had been exchanged in the debate. But she's tweeting about something she didn't comment on and what I didn't notice. I've been behind Mr. Van der Lee a lot. He spends a lot of time listening. And then he gets framed like that. I'm just really sorry if you do that that way. Mrs Van der Plas could have said very well: well, Mr Van der Lee will sit with his back towards me. Then he could have corrected that. I've had it once before that the Prime Minister was on his cell when I said something. I just said something about that back then. I think you should do that in the debate and not on Twitter. That really has to do with framing. On my point of order, I deliberately did not mention the name, because I did not think it was necessarily necessary. It's not a wellness thing. I'm really sorry. It happens very often that it is about something against which someone cannot defend themselves here in the Chamber. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u236	In my view, we agree that the debate should ultimately be held here. I am giving Mrs Van der Plas a chance to respond to this. Then we'll go back to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u237	It seems a little childish to me anyway. I'm just doing this on my own time. It was on my lunch break. We had a dinner break from 5:50 to 6:40. It can just be looked back when I've placed this. Again, I decide what I do on my own time. Mrs. Leijten can just say my name. I have nothing to hide. I'm just sitting in the hall. I can just defend myself. That's what I want to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u238	Is it necessary to discuss this further, also looking at time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u239	In her first few months, Mrs van der Plas has often expressed her surprise at the way we deal with each other here in the Chamber. I found that refreshing. But she has shown that she has learned well how to do so: through the social media she will have a second debate during the ongoing debate. We have an important debate to hold here, and that is what we should be talking about. Mr Van der Lee did not sit with his back towards you. He was listening to you. And I just think it's really mean to do this without talking to anyone. You could have just called him when you were standing there feeling like he wasn't listening. Let's make a deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u240	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, and then I really want to move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u241	Sure. I do not really want to do this either, but because we are now reacting again... Again, I do address Members of Parliament or Cabinet members to their behaviour, in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u242	You didn't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u243	If I put something on Twitter in my spare time, nobody has anything to do with it. I'm not talking about your spare time, either. You can do whatever you want with that. That's my point. Speaking of talking to yourself, I have done so in other debates. Again, what the hell is this about? What's this about? I'm doing something in my spare time. Even if I'm in the bathroom for an hour. If people don't want to accept that or don't like that... if I'm sitting there talking to someone... yeah, sorry. I'm just so sorry. I'm about my own free time and not someone else. And now I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u244	Then you will. I'm really gonna stop this right now. I've given you a few opportunities to reflect on each other. I'd say have a cup of coffee with each other sometime. We shall now proceed to the order of business of this debate. I think this is really important. It's an important subject. I give the floor to Mr Bontenbal, because he has been waiting for some time. I have given you a few opportunities, Mrs Leijten, and also Mrs Van der Plas. If you say anything, Mrs van der Plas will go back to the front and then we will no longer be dealing with the subject of this debate, and I think that is a real shame. I also appeal to you both to focus on the debate now. You had your chance to speak out. I won't let you do this anymore. I now give the floor to Mr Bontenbal of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u245	Mr President, a few days ago I read in the booklet by Tjeenk Willink about the functioning of Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u246	I'd also like to ask you not to put a dime in the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u247	I don't want to say anything else about it, but I advise everyone to read the book.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u248	I would like to say 'don't go there' and suggest that you just go back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u249	Nice to get back to the content, Mr. Chairman. I have a substantive question. I'm always struggling with how to prevent that accumulation of instruments from undermining itself. Let me give you a very silly example. If we have an ambitious reduction target for CO reduction and we put a sky-high renewable energy target next to it, let's take it extremely, 90%, it could lead to very high costs, while it could be cost-effective in another way. If you put these two instruments next to each other, they can undermine each other and make climate policy more expensive. How do we ensure that we install a check somewhere in the total package to see if it fits together, whether it is reasonable and whether these instruments reinforce each other instead of being unnecessary or undermining each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u250	I will come to that later, if I understand the question correctly, at the point about 50% green hydrogen in relation to cracking. Those are the examples where you wonder if it's gonna collide or bite each other. At least we will have to have that in focus next year. We have to put all these things together, too. I'll share that. In principle, all instruments should reinforce the same objective, but Mr Bontenbal has a very valid point. Especially when it comes to hydrogen, for example, I come back to how we monitor that and how we will come back here every time to test that connection with each other. It's not just about showing it to each other, it's about checking it out. Then what does it mean for the ambitions in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u251	I make it very concrete with the built environment. We have all kinds of guidelines for new buildings and so on, but also an ESA target that standards mobility, built environment and agriculture. On top of that, we're going to set up an emission trading system. These are two systems that operate in exactly the same sectors. Is that effective? Or we could have said: ESA is enough, if you tighten it up enough. It is up to the Member States to effectively fill that in. Then why put another system on top of that? I don't quite understand what that adds. It is an additional instrument which can also lead to additional costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u252	That's the part I'll come back to later. It is a specific example to clarify the issue of the extension of ETS, and that also has added value if you look at the overall picture of Europe. Because that's what you have to weigh when you look at what it does in your country. If Mr Bontenbal is okay with it, I suggest that we agree that we should pay particular attention to checking coherence next time we are here to talk about the overall package as well. After all, these are examples and so we can come up with more. During that debate, I will, with whatever documents we have here, dwell in a separate part on the assessment of that coherence. Mr Dassen had a similar question to that of Mrs Teunissen. We'd like to be frontrunners, but how do we do that? If we've achieved that 55% ambition, that's fine, but then we have to fill it out. That is where the challenge lies. I do not think Mr Dassen referred to land as a frontrunner. The game isn't about who sets the highest goals, it's about who does it the smartest way to advance as a country. Jobs and progress must come here and investment must take place here. Mr Dassen asked what was the reason for the reluctant reaction of the cabinet to the Innovation Fund, and then specifically to sustainable technology. We are, of course, in favour of innovation. Innovation in sustainable technology is indispensable in the transition. It will ensure that we can achieve the transition as quickly as possible in a cost-effective way. The point is that not all the financial elements of the package are known. Later this year, the Commission will present some financial proposals for the Innovation Fund. Then we'll have to see what it means, on top of what's already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u253	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Dassen van Volt. He's come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u254	It's always a walk. If I listen carefully to the Secretary of State, she says that she is positive about an innovation fund in which investment can be made, especially in those sustainable future technologies, also in order to develop possibly emission-raising technologies. The question is what exactly that will look like. But it is positive that the polluter is going to pay for this to ensure that we develop that technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u255	There is already an innovation fund. We are in favour of such a fund. The proposal here in "Fit for 55" says: a plus on top of the innovation fund. Let us take an integral look at what that does, what that means, and weigh it fully with all the other proposals. If the question is whether I am in favour of an innovation fund specifically focused on sustainable technology, the answer is yes. As with the other measures, we need to see what the precise implementation is. It's about part of the ETS revenues and then you need to know what you've come up with. It's an integral package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u256	Okay, but then I note that the Secretary of State is positive about it, including the increase in such an innovation fund, but that more needs to be known about the implementation. It will make a positive contribution to this in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u257	If we can stop at the first positive we agree. It's a positive basic position. But that plus on it and from where, with what purpose and where it goes, I want to be able to weigh and look more closely. The Commission will come forward with further details. Then my invitation to Mr Dassen would be: let us think about it when it is really worked out. Then we can see what we're talking about in terms of content. Additional resources are needed for innovation and technology in our country, and will be needed in the European area. So a positive basic position. Let us look at this once the proposal has been worked out by the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u258	One final question about this. With these funds, we often see that they are only accessible to companies that are already quite far away, because they have to cover very large amounts, and that the thresholds for start-ups and innovative companies are quite large. I would ask the Secretary of State to take up the fact that it will not only end up with those larger companies, but also with those innovative companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u259	That makes sense. Then Mr Thijssen, Mr Boucke, Mr Erkens and Mr Eerdmans had relevant questions about burden-sharing, namely how the package will be worked out and how the planning agencies will help us to study it. We've just talked about it on the basis of interruptions. Yesterday, following previous motions and questions, I sent a letter stating what the planning agencies are now indicating. I think we have dealt with this fairly extensively for the moment. It's a subject that keeps coming back. Every time the planning agencies can make it more concrete because it has become more concrete in Europe, we come to talk about this as far as I am concerned. Mr Erkens has a number of concerns. In addition to increasing charges, he mentioned in his speech the 50% hydrogen and other cases. Where else are these worries? The main priority is that we maintain support and that we are all able to explain and show what it adds and what makes it better, also in the direction of Dutch, companies, SMEs and everyone who is part of it. That is the main priority. It must be cost-effective, affordable, feasible. In the package, the ESA edition is a major challenge for the Netherlands. I'll get to that later. This will require additional measures. This is also a challenge for other Member States. The cabinet would really want a more fair distribution, convergence, in the task for a number of Member States that would otherwise have to do a lot after 2030. But I'll come back to that. As has just been said, we are also reluctant about the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u260	I have a quick question. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see in shifting to ETS? I thought the cabinet was positive about that, too. What room does she see for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u261	Which room exactly will that be, remains to be seen. I already had a feeling that this would be a debate in which I would have to give these kinds of answers, which is very annoying. I can't do much more right now. You actually have two cases. Firstly, we want it to be better distributed across Europe. Some countries, such as the Netherlands, are now faced with a very high task and others have a very low one. That needs a better distribution. If you know what you're getting at, you can go see how you can translate that, what it means and how you can still slide in there. The wish is clear, I think we share the commitment. The commitment with which we enter the negotiations is not different, but we must also keep an eye on this. Mr President, that was folder one. But the other folders are thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u262	Sometimes that doesn't mean anything, is my experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u263	All right, ETS. I've said a few times that I'd come back to this. There were several questions about the new emission system for built environment and its expansion. Asked what the impact is and what the benefits are. I think Mr Van der Lee said that the cabinet was negative, but that there was a change. That's right. We have an open posture now. As with proposals, you see when they are on the table and you're going to study all those thousands of pages. Fortunately, I have hardworking colleagues who have done so. I wanted to share it with you. We shared it in a chip, too. The reason we are open to discussion is that the proposal has an EU-wide effect, as I said to Mr Erkens or Mr Bontenbal. This means that it is a support for achieving European policy goals. That 55% is meant for Europe and we must bring it together. It ensures convergence within Europe. It is also fair to say that the greatest impact can be expected in countries with little pricing. In this sense, we are ahead of the rest of Europe. We are at the forefront of our climate policy. I know that we need to work harder on our goals and that we still have a lot to do in the coming years, but it is not fair to say that we are not doing anything about it. Yeah, we sure do. Tomorrow is Climate Day and then I'll share the climate note with you. That's what we're gonna talk about. We're on our way. In countries where this is not the case and where there is little pricing, this will be strongly felt. With us, that's something else. CO pricing is needed for climate neutrality by 2050. It is an additional instrument in a balanced policy mix in the sectors that this is about. The proposal provides a clear European reduction path for these sectors with the falling ceiling, which can be extended beyond 2030. It contributes to a cost-effective transition at European level through harmonisation of European CO prices. It is also positive that a separate emissions trading system has been proposed, rather than broadening the current ETS. We could have; at first we thought it would look like this. This will prevent undesirable price effects for industry and the electricity sector in the existing ETS, because you want it to continue effectively, as it currently works. There are concrete proposals for this from the European Commission. Then you come back to what we were just talking about. It remains an important issue that climate policy must remain affordable. So we are going to look at it in conjunction with other proposals in the package. This is, of course, where national choices play a role, which we discussed at the beginning, as we need to look at the impact of price developments and affordability for citizens in the broad national policy context. I think that's why we say the effect is different from what we all thought at first. So we are now open in the discussion, because it could also mean a lot to achieve European goals and, above all, it really will mean a lot to countries where there is still little pricing. That does not mean that we should not be super alert about what it does in our country, for example in connection with other objectives, which Mr Bontenbal was talking about. We have to test how things work with each other all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u264	Let me say first, before I am accused of a populist attitude: doing good things for the climate is really good for me. I am a little on the line that Mr Bontenbal indicated, of good measures and trying to achieve goals. I feel like we're gonna put our heads in the noose of 55% and then we're gonna see how we do it. If it doesn't work, we're stuck. Can the Secretary of State take that very uncomfortable, nasty feeling away from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u265	For a moment, I am not keen on whether the SGP has been for the higher purpose in the last four years or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u266	I'll take a look at Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u267	I'd like to explain that. That wasn't us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u268	The majority of the Chamber was. He first sent my predecessor, Eric Wiebes, out for the greater good. When we finally managed that with Europe, we started to fill it out. We did the same in the Netherlands. We said 49% by 2030. We then entered into the Climate Agreement with each other how we would do that. We have also looked at how this is going to work and where we need to take measures, for example, to compensate, absorb or speed up certain things. Actually, you're doing the same thing here. You're going for a cause. We managed to say 55% together. That is not insignificant, even if you look at what that will hopefully mean at the international climate summit in Glasgow. This will encourage other countries to do their part as well. Only then will this have real impact. Then we look at the implementation that has now been proposed. We're entering the negotiations. The moment you know where you're going to land and the approach is clear, we also focus on affordability. We want to reach the targets and they have to move our country forward. Then you're going to see where you landed and what national policies are then needed to shape that here. That's the order. I wouldn't call that a noose. It's the order we're in and we started together a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u269	This doesn't take that feeling away from me. I still do. It's like I'd say I'm gonna win the Tour de France. It's clear: I can do my best, but that's not gonna be him anymore when you're 47. Mr. Bontenball thinks so. I think I'm getting farther than you are. No, I don't. Now suppose you've looked at everything in a moment, the funding, the feasibility, and so on, and thinks that's not gonna be it by 2030. Are we in that noose, or is it 48.7%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u270	No, we committed to 55%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u271	I would like to come back to the answer the Secretary of State just gave to a question I asked about the widening of the ETS to built environment and mobility. I understand a few of the arguments, but I think it's a bit of an opportunity argument. They do not outweigh the complexity of the system we are going to build in this way. The forms of pricing that we know outside ETS have not only a greening purpose. To a large extent, they are also part of our tax base. They're meant to raise revenue. They also have an objective throughout the discussion on burden sharing, when it comes to both income policy and, for example, the need to reduce the burden on labour. These are all national competences. Everyone in their own country already has quite complex systems. If we are going to add this right through there, in terms of comprehensibility, the end will soon be lost. We must also have the national space to ensure that prices are as optimal as possible. I don't understand why the cabinet suddenly abandoned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u272	It is an open attitude, with the comments I have just mentioned and the commitment I have just mentioned. Without an emissions trading system, all analyses suggest that alternative ways will still be needed to initiate the transition there as well. Then you come to stricter requirements, for example in the area of energy saving, which will be more expensive for the Netherlands. It's about whether this is going to help each other balance. That's what we have to test with each other. The sectors are also covered by the ESA until at least 2030. That was also Mr Bontenbal's question: is this helping each other or is it going to fight each other? We think this will help each other if you set it right. I know that Mr Van der Lee knows this, but perhaps it is a good thing to say that the obligation is laid down by traders of energy suppliers, and of course not at the people's home. They do not have to act on that. All the elements of the establishment added up, we think it is a good idea to be open in this, but that is something else than completely embrace it. I really understand what Mr Van der Lee is saying, but I think that the alternative way could eventually be more expensive for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u273	Once the coalition agreement has been reached, I would like to have a look at the plans for tax reform and greening of taxation, and to have an analysis of how these agreements within the coalition relate to what is now planned in the 'Fit for 55' package. I wonder if that will automatically run in sync. In fact, it can go even further apart than it already is. So if I get that commitment, I'll come back to this in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u274	There is now a outgoing cabinet, let me just say to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u275	Yes. Let me put it this way: once this becomes increasingly clear, it is not the case that there will then be radio silence for a year and a half and a half, and then there will be a package. We are going to experience this together, and we have every effort clear. I think it would be a good idea to keep an eye on what needs to be done at national level. With Mr Van der Lee, I hope that there will be a government agreement very quickly. But I cannot make a commitment about that, not even about the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u276	I would like to continue with Mr Stoffer's questions, which were very relevant, on the feasibility of the targets. The Netherlands has itself agreed, has even argued for an increase in targets to 55%. How can that be achieved? Admittedly, the PVV doesn't care so much; as far as we are concerned, these goals are all going to go away. But given the billions wasted on it, I still have a question about it. The PBL has indicated that the Netherlands probably does not go beyond 34% of GDP, which is quite a difference, and that the Netherlands needs to double the climate effort to meet the targets. The International Energy Agency says that 2020 was a record year in terms of CO emissions and that emissions will only increase further in the coming years. And the Innovation Monitor 2021 shows that tens of thousands of Dutch companies are not taking measures to reduce their emissions this century. They have already given up their climate ambitions. If you read all this, admit that those goals don't have to be achieved by all of us, then do you have to conclude that 55% is completely unfeasible? That's what billions of dollars are wasted on. Then what the hell are you getting into?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u277	First of all, I'm an optimistic man. Second. We need to look at the facts. I'll give you the climate report tomorrow. It says how our national targets are going. It contains the most recent figures. So I'd like to invite you to read through that tomorrow. I don't have to say too much about that right now, because otherwise I'm gonna get things mixed up. Today we are talking about 55% and Europe. If you complete the "Fit for 55" package, 55% is simply feasible. That's what's in store. This is what has been calculated and what has led to such a complex and comprehensive proposal from the Commission. Of a number of things we say: good idea, let us do so. On a number of issues, we still have questions, or we are reluctant. Then you have to look at the whole thing. Mr Kops is right, if that is what he means. All countries have committed to 55%. That's how we got to see each other. But the starting position, where all the countries come from and what they all have to do in their own country, is very different. But the countries have committed themselves to it. And I did intend to go there with such an optimistic attitude, and to go to Glasgow next week too, because I assume that other countries will commit to this, so as to ensure that we pass the planet on to the generations after us. That's the real goal. We are talking about figures, Paris targets and Glasgow targets, but in the end that does not mean anything at all. The point is that we pass on our land and the planet in a good way. Then I'll be at the ESR folder. A great deal has actually been said about this. Perhaps I can go back to Mr Eerdmans' question as to what I think the Netherlands is getting one of the biggest reductions. That is also one of the reasons for being critical of this. We believe that this can be distributed more fairly across Europe. This does not mean that we do not want to do anything more or, on the contrary, we should do much less. However, we see that countries such as Denmark, Germany, Finland and Sweden have set their new target at 50% reduction compared to 2005, while the challenges for several other Member States, for example in Eastern Europe, are around a target of between 10% and 20%. So that can be better distributed, and that is also the commitment I have put forward here. The advantage of the many interruptions in the front is that we have already discussed a lot. I'm on the Social Climate Fund. I've said quite a lot about that, too. Perhaps it is good to explain why we are reluctant to do so. That is not because we do not want to invest extra in climate or because we do not want to support other countries. However, it has to do with the fact that in the Multiannual Financial Framework and in the European Recovery Instrument NextGenerationEU, major commitments have been made for the EU budget up to 2027 and that substantial funds, i.e. 30%, have already been made available for climate change. This has been the result of lengthy and intensive negotiations. These include the Just Transition Fund, for regions undergoing major changes, European structures and investment funds which provide structural support to economically weaker regions in Europe and to the Recovery Fund, with 37% of the funds earmarked for climate change. The Commission says that with such a new fund there will also be new types of expenditure that should be financed, for example direct income support for people affected by energy poverty. This is a type of expenditure from a European fund that the cabinet has a lot of questions about and which we should consider in the negotiations: what is the usefulness and necessity of such a fund and what does it add to what is already there? Especially when you talk about acceptance, what Mr Thijssen and other colleagues were talking about, I think it is really important that you look at it with restraint and ask those questions. Every time we know more about that, we'll discuss it here. Then the folder is renewable. That's three maps: hydrogen, biomass and wind at sea. Mr Bontenbal had the following question about hydrogen, and I believe other colleagues had questions about it: in industry 50% of hydrogen consumption must be made up of green hydrogen; is that a realistic requirement? That seems to me to be a fair question. It's quite a challenge for industry. It's a question we have ourselves. The cabinet, together with market players, is investigating a feasible level for the proposed goal, so we are also really together with market players looking at what that means. We mainly look at the additional costs and the planned transition paths of the Dutch industry. The cabinet does not expect the proposed goal to lead to a displacement of e.g. electric cracking. On the contrary, the use of electrolysis should lead to additional renewable electricity production. However, the proposed target may replace other production methods for hydrogen, including circular hydrogen, from natural gas and residual gases. We really have to take that into account when determining the final position. So we are first with market players watching how you translate this goal and what it means. As soon as this is clarified, your Chamber will receive more information.I am referring to the updates we have just talked about regarding the handling of the entire package. So it was a fair question. We are in the market right now looking at what it means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u278	Mr Erkens, VVD, and then Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u279	May I perhaps first... Mr Erkens also asked in this context: how does hydrogen production relate to energy saving? Maybe I can answer that question. We focus primarily on CO reduction, in which we will also focus on saving. In my view, this is a sensible way to ensure that fewer people are released. In some cases, CO-reducing measures can lead to higher energy consumption. This is the case, for example, with hydrogen and also with electrification. For the Netherlands, it is important that Member States retain the freedom to steer cost-effective CO reduction measures. That is also what we agreed with each other in the Climate Agreement. That is also what our national policy says. That is also what we will bring to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u280	Part of the question has indeed been answered by the Secretary of State, but another part has not yet been answered. It is mainly the combination of factors here. We have a specific goal for the green hydrogen industry. In any case, I wonder why we have a purpose for that and not so specific for many other aspects of the energy mix. There is now a discussion with the market players about this. Could she send a relatively short-term letter to the Chamber informing us about how it is related to the energy saving obligation and what it would actually mean and what it would cost us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u281	I'd like to do that in the short term anyway. Then you are right to ask me: what is "short term"? If I may say in the second term when that is feasible, I will at least say something that I can make happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u282	The investments needed for hydrogen are actually on the shelf. The government is willing to do that. But what's the deal with these investments? Are they going to Shell's big profits, which Gasunie, for example, is afraid of? He says: although the infrastructure will be paid for with the money of the inhabitants, it will no longer belong to the inhabitants. That's the big mistake we made at Groningen. We didn't just let Shell win the gas, we also gave Shell the full profit model. That's why we had to buy them off when we stopped the gas extraction. Or rather, "now we're going to stop the gas extraction" because we're still winning gas. Last week, Nieuwbuurt reported extensively that not only at Gasunie, but also at your ministry, there are great concerns about how this is going and to whom we give the key to those billions and that property. If the Secretary of State is going to write that letter, I would also like to read about those concerns and the considerations that lie ahead. Because I do not want to be confronted with a situation where we say: 'Europe must switch to hydrogen. Oh, hey, we've already talked about infrastructure. No, the Chamber can't decide anymore. Fait accompli." I really don't want to get into that. If it is already so advanced at the ministry that it is wobble for journalists and there are big items to be made about it at Nieuwsuur, I would say: send it with the note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u283	I'd like to share all developments on hydrogen. Newsuur's item contained a number of things, including how it came by tonight, which are not entirely correct. It's good to tear that apart. I informed the Chamber about our investments in hydrogen: infrastructure, how to transfer gas pipes to hydrogen, make the industry more sustainable, ensure that we can use it at some point in the built environment, for our homes, and that Gasunie plays a role in that. That's what we talked about, and the Room has been properly informed about it. Investment went there, also last August. In the other project, which came to Nieuwsuur, there is no investment or commitment from the government. There's no billions in that. That was suggested in the last few days, I saw. I am not saying this directly to Mrs Leijten, but it is a good thing to break this up, because when we do, we would, of course, present this to the Chamber first, asking whether it is a good idea. I think it would be a good idea to map this closely. If there are any questions or if such an item comes along, it is of course nice that I can explain here that one part is not right and that it is different, but it also seems very nice if we put this on paper. Then we can also show what our hydrogen ambition is. There is a chicken egg problem there concerning production, supply and demand. You should actually stimulate it if you want it to get going. In addition to what we have so far shared with the Chamber about hydrogen ambition, we can put this into focus once more, also in relation to what has been in the media over the last few days. I think that is a very fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u284	Yes, and then I would also relate that to the adopted Leijten/Van Raan motion, which says that when we invest in the public sector, there should be clear agreements on public profit. When I submitted it before the summer, there was no majority here, but after the summer there was a majority for it, because we know that billions are ready to help the industry with the change. Then I think we should be able to explain to all those taxpayers what they get in return: either share in profits or good, clean air, or part of property. I would very much like the Secretary of State to include this in the letter, in relation to investments in hydrogen technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u285	I'll get that motion involved. I do not have it sharp at the moment, but I am definitely involving it in your explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u286	Speaking of hydrogen, I have a question that can also be included in the letter. If you look at the ambitions in this project, the electrolysis capacity in the Netherlands will almost double compared to the ambition we have and which is already quite large. I would like to know whether this can be technically achieved at all within that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u287	We'll take that with us. As we're used to it in this committee, we'll make it one letter. That's gonna be a nice, broad letter. Here's what's gonna come in. Mr. Chairman. It might be good to say something about green hydrogen. Among other things, Mr Stoffer asked whether it could be achieved at all, because it is a lot of ambition. But there's got to be a combination and a good balance with imports, so what we're gonna get is what we're gonna get. I'll make sure we include something about that in the letter. I suspect Mr Stoffer wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u288	Thank you. Now I think we're going to the map, topic, theme, block of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u289	I'd like to, but we're still on renewables, the map of biomass. Experience has shown that this could also be a subject. Mr. Chairman. There were several questions, from Mr Bontenbal, Mrs Teunissen and Mrs Leijten, on the exclusion of biomass, the Renewable Energy Directive and the ratio. How about that, if I can sum it up like that? In presenting the package, the Commission has made it clear that biomass will have to make an important contribution to achieving the renewable energy targets in the EU in the coming years. The Commission also assumes that this is possible. The cabinet supports the proposed stricter sustainability criteria at EU level, but, like the Commission, does not support total exclusion from biomass. However, we are pleased to be able to focus on the highest possible use of biomaterials according to recent national sustainability frameworks. Our sustainability frameworks are at a very good level. Mrs Teunissen asked about the implementation of the motion on the identification of actual CO emissions from bio-materials. That is the motion, I believe, which calls on the government to measure emissions from biomass in future and to inform the Chamber accordingly. We've talked about that before. If I am not mistaken, Mrs Teunissen referred to that motion. On 28 June, we informed the Chamber with a letter. In doing so, we have explained how it can be determined what the annual CO emissions from by- and mostly from biomass in plants are. It amounted to 1,7 megatons in 2019. As already promised to Mrs Teunissen, I will consult with relevant knowledge institutions to see how this can be reported on an annual basis. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u290	Perhaps it would be useful if you could finish this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u291	Yes. Then all I have left is wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u292	Then perhaps it is good that Mrs Teunissen has the floor, because that was on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u293	Sorry, it's the theme renewable, but the map of wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u294	Yeah, about biomass, yeah. I also heard the conversation with Mr Timmermans. We talked extensively about biomass. He keeps saying: we need it for the transition, we can't do without it, and it's going to be okay, because it's not going to cost biodiversity. But I haven't heard any support in that, except: we need it because it's on paper. Surely it cannot be the intention of the whole transition that we continue to include things that contribute on paper to the reduction of CO emissions, but in practice increase CO emissions? That's not gonna do us any good for the climate, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u295	I don't think this is entirely fair. There is no one who says: we need biomass for transition so we do it without any justification. We've shared that with each other a lot. In the debate just between Mrs Teunissen and Mr Bontenbal, I heard Mr Bontenbal mention the various scientists who were in the Volkskrant today or yesterday and who also explained exactly what is happening. I don't think anyone here is a fan of biomass. We've shared that with each other before. We do see that it is necessary for the transition and that if we would just remove it, we are not going to achieve the goals and certainly not in an affordable way for Dutch people at home. When the Commission says 'this is how we work together', it would be very strange to say as a country that we are not going to do so. I have previously mapped out for the Chamber what that would mean, for example for the tasks in the built environment. I've heard Mrs Teunissen say "you do something else there," but there's nothing else. That's the whole point. Then, for example, we do not achieve the goals in the built environment. Unless we do it in such a way that the costs for people at home are immensely high. And I'm not gonna do that just because we have an ideological difference. This is substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u296	The Secretary of State says we need it and there is sufficient support for it. But that's precisely what's missing. I find it illustrative that the Secretary of State has just quoted a number of scientists who quoted Mr Bontenbal. I have asked so many times for a substantive basis. We now have a report from SOMO. The cabinet says: we will come up with a response to that report. That reaction has been postponed a few times. It was at the request of the Chamber that a reaction had to be made. I have not heard in any way from Mr Timmermans how it is possible that we will continue to use biomass, that this will reduce CO emissions if we count on actual emissions and that we will not compromise biodiversity. No evidence at all. If the Secretary of State can convince me now, it can say that it is going to be all right and on the basis of substantive arguments says that we are going to continue with biomass, I am very curious about that. But I haven't heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u297	For example, the Secretary of State for IenW has a very clear and comprehensive sustainability framework, from a long time ago. We are really ahead of other countries in this respect. We are making very strict demands here, in order to be able to address the concerns that Mrs Teunissen and many other people have about biomass. We say: these are the preconditions and within them this is acceptable. Then there are the signals that Mrs Teunissen is receiving, for example from Estonia or anywhere else. The reason why answers take a long time is because my ministry wants to figure it out behind comma and not just assume it is from paper. They call and go there to find out exactly how it is, so that we can show each time that we stay within our own sustainability frameworks and that we do so in a way that is beneficial for the transition. We're talking about biomass as if that's just one thing. You have low temperature biomass, you have high temperature biomass and you have high quality biomass. You have trees, pellets and residual wood, or what it's called. You've got corn. You've got a hell of a lot. We have also shared with each other earlier that if you say that it is no longer possible to do so in its entirety, you will not be able to do so either. It is necessary in the transition phase and some elements will remain longer. As far as low temperatures are concerned, we have already agreed that there will be a phasing-out path. That was a wish submitted by D66, which was supported by a majority of the Chamber. We have said: let us make sense of this, so that they can achieve the goals in a cost-effective way. At that time, the Chamber said: that is not a subject you are allowed to discuss as a missionary, so we wait until there is a new cabinet. In order to respond to this situation, I said that we are not going to grant it this year. I pulled it out of the SDE. We're talking about this endlessly. That is right, because it is a very important subject, but I am getting a little nasty when it is done if there are not endlessly many pieces, investigations and arguments about why it is necessary. Why else would we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u298	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u299	There are a lot of pieces, but biomass emits more CO than coal. We've seen that. Then it is quite illogical to say that we are going to include large-scale biomass in our plans and then we are going to investigate again, with a lot of research, what exactly is the damage? Just when you look at the precautionary principle, you're not going to start with a technique first and then think: oh, but this technique is still very harmful, so maybe we should stop and we're going to do some research on it for years? We don't have that time. We can't afford them. We need to reduce CO as quickly as possible. And that there is no alternative is because the cabinet is not looking for an alternative to biomass because it wants to continue to do so. I really want to appeal: at least make sure that we in Europe prevent harmful activities from using biomass. We have another chance now. We have a wonderful opportunity to make that commitment: no more biomass in that Renewable Energy Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u300	I'm sorry, but it's not like we're about to start using biomass on the basis of the plans we're presenting. This was agreed years ago in this context at European level and in the Netherlands. Based on opinions, you can't just say that you're not gonna do it anymore, that we're not gonna make it to our targets. I find it very faint when Mrs Teunissen says that there are no alternatives, because no one is trying to do so. There are alternatives, such as geothermal and geothermal. The Chamber has also made extra efforts to do so by saying that there are divisions to be built in the future SDE scheme to ensure that they really get the space to innovate, to develop and to be used on a scale, so that we can phase out biomass. That's what we're doing with each other. There's a lot of investment in that. That's what we want. But yes, you want to achieve goals in a cost-effective way or not. That is the final question. We don't have the luxury of excluding methods and techniques.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u301	I give the floor to Mr Bontenbal. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u302	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u303	There are three other colleagues and we have another debate tonight. So I'm asking the Secretary of State to do a little bit more compact, but we're pretty far ahead. Mr Bontenbal, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u304	I share the same line as the Secretary of State who has just expressed, but this is something that always comes back to every debate. This is about biomass and also about nuclear energy. The same thing happens to CCS. We may be able to read reports all the time, but what Mrs Teunissen says does resonate with a larger audience. Those are also the people who rise up against biomass plants, whether or not they are well informed. Can't we just come up with something? Your vote, my vote and Mrs Teunissen's vote are not even the most relevant in this respect. It is about what the experts in the Netherlands say. Can we not in one way or another, by asking for a factsheet, for example, let the real experts in the Netherlands, who know about it, speak for once? I believe that these are far too few to speak in the climate debate. Can't we organize that somehow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u305	I think that is very sensible, because Mr Bontenbal is right: all of it, one by one for a support for different techniques, without an alternative. That's why you're gonna get in trouble, while the Chamber is always asking for higher goals. I can't. Maybe I don't know if I'll do it myself or if the Chamber is an expert meeting with experts, scientists... I think the Chamber can do it itself, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u306	Yeah, the room can definitely do that by itself. But perhaps Mr Bontenbal means something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u307	Yes. There have been several such meetings, but what happens then is that an emeritus professor of nutrition is invited to say something about biomass. That's the way it goes all the time. Or a director of an NGO whose position we already know is being put behind such an expert meeting. Those aren't the people who understand biomass. Those are not the people who do international publications in this area. If I want to make informed policy as a Member of Parliament, I want to listen to the experts, not to Aunt Truus and Director NGO and so on. I want to hear the real scientists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u308	Maybe I could say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u309	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u310	You can, of course, also ask for investigations and information through the procedural meeting and also the support of the Chamber. You can also organise expert meetings yourself. I'm just giving that as a tip to Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u311	I will also consider how we can bring less ideology and more facts into the whole climate debate, because that is the only way we are going to do this with each other in a sensible way. I'll be at sea by wind. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I have some things to say about agriculture, but I can be quite brief on this, because that is, of course, from my colleague, the Minister for Agriculture. Mr Boucke says that the energy we use must be clean, preferably generated close to home; how can we tackle the opportunities for better European cooperation in the construction of wind farms at sea? I share the wish that the energy we use may be generated clean and close by. That is why cooperation with neighbouring countries is taking place at three levels: in the European Union with the EU offshore wind strategy. In cooperation with nine countries called North Sea energy cooperation, and in bilateral contacts with neighbouring countries, both EU Member States and the United Kingdom and Norway. With Denmark, for example, we have a cooperation agreement to explore how energy markets can better work together via wind energy at sea and whether an energy island can play a role in this. So this is an important appeal from Mr Boucke, who we are trying to shape and shape in different ways, because this is also shared in all the other countries I have just mentioned. Then Mr Van der Lee had another question about the current cap of 35 terawattures on land. That's not consistent with Fit for 55. It's also a debate we have on a regular basis, Mr. Van der Lee. The current Climate Agreement states that, in the event of an increase in the target, small-scale sunshine and wind at sea will be considered first. It is up to a next cabinet, in consultation with co-governments, to ask you the same question, to determine whether the current target of 35 terawatts on land should be adjusted. Mr. Chairman. On agriculture there were a number of questions, which I will try to answer, but I must say that Mr Agriculture Minister, of course, can do much better. The Animal Party had a question about the common agricultural policy. How are we going to reduce animals, reduce methane emissions, and ensure that there is a real transition in agriculture? As the Netherlands, we are firmly committed to sustainable agriculture, circular agriculture and less greenhouse gas emissions. That is why the cabinet has taken various measures. With part of the money made available by this cabinet, farmers who wish to do so can voluntarily stop or make the switch to less intensive livestock farming. There is, of course, also work at EU level on the transition to climate in agriculture. This is done, among other things, with the new common agricultural policy, the EU-methane strategy and the "farm-to-table" strategy. Then there was another question about how protein transition is stimulated. Let me give you some examples of how the cabinet stimulates protein transition. LNV and VWS subsidise campaigns of the Food Centre that encourage consumers to eat according to the Disk of Five. This creates a more sustainable, healthier and plant-based diet, one with a balance in the consumption of animal and plant proteins. The "Everyone does what" campaign stimulates the consumption of nuts and pulses. The National Protein Strategy promotes the cultivation, processing and consumption of protein crops. We also support the European Commission in promoting sustainable food consumption from the same Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy in Dutch, they are no better, Mrs Leijten, whom I have just mentioned. Then I had questions from BBB about the reports that the emissions of cows have been overestimated three to four times. I thought Mrs. Van der Plas referred to the IPCC report. The warming effect of methane is powerful. Regardless of the method of calculation and regardless of the source, reduction of methane is an effective way to limit warming. Reducing methane emissions is therefore important in order to achieve global climate change. You will also receive a reply to the written questions you have put to the Minister for Agriculture next week. He'll go into that further. Then Mrs van der Plas said: food is a first need for life, but people must have enough money to buy their food. She asked: what does climate action really mean for the quality of life? Of course, I share Mrs van der Plas' view that food must remain affordable. As far as I'm concerned, we can do the same. I hope I have been able to explain all evening that I stand for climate policy that improves the quality of life, how we live and how we deal with each other. I also really believe that climate policy offers all these opportunities. It's up to us to shape that in a smart way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u312	Thank you. Do you mind if I give Mrs Van der Plas of BBB the floor first? Then comes Mr. Erkens, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u313	Am I to understand that this was the last question I asked the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u314	Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u315	Oh, now I'm saying it again. I did good all night, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u316	Yeah, I know. Haha. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u317	This is always gonna happen. I had a few other questions, but maybe they'll be answered by others. I had mentioned a Twitter report on the rise in sea levels in the North Sea, while there are also actual measurements showing what the rise has been over the last hundred years. And I had asked whether the Secretary of State is prepared to inform consumers in the Netherlands to eat meat, eggs and dairy products of Dutch make-up when they eat them in connection with a lower ecological footprint and, if not, why not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u318	May I refer that second question to the farmer's colleague by... well, so? The first question on the KNMI and the reports will be addressed by my colleague, the Secretary of State for IenW. I have faith in scientists. If they come up with a report, I'd like to tweet about it, but that's my personal consideration. I am happy to give the floor to my colleagues on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u319	How does Mrs van der Plas get an answer to the question now going through Agriculture? Is that gonna end up in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u320	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u321	Yeah? Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u322	I think this is relevant, because this has to do with climate. Eating meat is always in the climate debate. I would like both of you, both from the Minister of Agriculture and from the Secretary of State, to answer that question, because it concerns both consumption and climate and agriculture. If that is possible in a letter or in a written reply, I would very much like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u323	The cabinet speaks with one mouth. We are also very much involved in climate policy with all the colleagues you see here and those who are not here today. So I am sure that my colleague from Agriculture will give a good answer to that, which will also be fully coordinated on our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u324	Can you indicate in second term when about that letter will come? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u325	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u326	I hear the Secretary of State had already answered her, but I had asked a number of questions about ETS-BRT. They came very briefly, but I still have a follow-up question to the Secretary of State. It is indicated that this measure has a significant impact in other countries, but not in the Netherlands. Part of its revenue is explicitly linked to a social climate fund. So it reduces little CO here and at the same time some of the revenue goes to other countries. I find it very difficult to explain why we are in favour of this. My question to the Secretary of State is: is the cabinet prepared to reconsider an alternative to the ETS-BRT? Because if it does work so well in other countries, can it not be paid back at national level so that income also comes back at national level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u327	The next time we discuss this, we will be able to discuss what I have just said more regularly: if we do not do this, it does not mean that we do not have to do anything in that area. Then you will be given other measures in the Netherlands that, according to our analyses, could be even more expensive for our country. We have just started and not everything has been crystallized, but we can pay more attention to that balance and to the question why we think it has added value for the Netherlands as well. I understand the inconvenience, including the clutch. We are also reluctant when it comes to a fund, but I will make sure that next time we discuss what it would mean if you did not do this and what its impact on the Netherlands will be, because then you come up with other measures and there are a lot of hooks and eyes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u328	This will be your last interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u329	I'll pay for it. I just want to make it concrete. I assume that we will have a more frequent plenary debate on this matter. Is this a commitment to make it clear to us, in a letter or whatever form? We get so many letters, so I don't attach much value to that, but I would like to get it before the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u330	I would like to have the space to say as far as possible. We are getting more and more information from the negotiations and from the Commission, which makes it increasingly sharper for us. So if it's okay that I say "as far as we know at the time," then we're definitely gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u331	Mr President, I hope this does not go away from my five interruptions, because I have another question that has not been answered. It's about the Dutch climate scientists who say it should be a bit more ambitious. Are you prepared to have the PBL sort that out and act accordingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u332	Can I come back to that later? Then we'll do it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u333	I had two more questions, but they may be answered by another minister or secretary of state. My first question concerns research into cross-border projects. My other question is actually part of the heading 'Social Climate Fund'. It is about the safeguards that must be put in place to ensure that the money actually comes to the people for whom it is intended. We want that to be properly monitored, because we have more discussions about this kind of fund in this Chamber. We want to prevent abuse in certain countries. So let's not only be reluctant now, but also settle that part properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u334	They're, as I understand it, both for me. I will come back to these cross-border projects later. We also discussed this last point in the previous committee debates. I asked Mr Dassen to be able to negotiate with the Commission in Brussels and Luxembourg first about the usefulness and need of the fund, precisely because there are many other funds. The moment we're a little further into that and have shared that here... I understand that Mr Dassen says: do not lose the time to come to the table to ensure that when such a fund comes, you can talk about how it is deployed. I heard right, but I'm still out front. I'm really reluctant, because of the different reasons we've shared all night. If we are a little further on that and we see how that is going to develop, then we can talk about it, but I would first like to be reluctant to go to the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u335	The Secretary of State is almost at the end of her block, but I have one more question. This is a package from the Commission that adds up to 55% reduction in emissions below the line. One of my colleagues in the Chamber spoke about the possibility that one Member State might want to veto the package. Each proposal has a separate legal basis and, depending on that legal basis, you need a majority or unanimity. There are, however, proposals that require unanimity. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that, if one or more Member States try to thwart the package for no substantive reasons, we can do so in the form of a leading group. In any case, we must reach 55 below the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u336	In that sense, I think I can reassure Mr Boucke about the attitude of the Netherlands. I've been there a number of times in the last few months. There are several leading groups. The mornings start at 7.30 a.m. with breakfast with the first breakaway. That's where you really make arrangements about how you're gonna perform. These can be different leading groups for each component, because each country has a different starting point and thus a different interest. It's possible. We're charting this very sharply. For that, it is so important that we are there every time. We need to listen carefully to how everyone is in it, we need to form leading groups ourselves or join us. We need to make sure we're ever stronger in it. We all agree that the objective should not be called into question. Together, you can have a healthy debate on how to achieve it, but the goal must eventually be achieved with each other. That is the attitude and the commitment and organisation of those days with consultation and negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u337	That is clear: it is about attitude and commitment. Thank you for that answer. We're really serious about achieving the goals. If this attitude and this commitment do not lead everyone to participate in achieving 55%, then at least with the leading group we must ensure that we get to 55%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u338	We haven't even really started negotiating yet, so it's a very pessimistic scenario with all due respect. Let's start with optimism. Everyone I have heard so far does have reservations about one being a little more critical than the other, but retreating movements in the vein of "we're not going to do it all" are not introduced there. Let's work on the idea that we're gonna do it together. We are going to keep each other informed, so Mr Boucke is not suddenly surprised after a year and a half. We're there ourselves, but we haven't even started yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u339	I also have a question that hasn't been answered. We're going to have a huge renovation with each other. The Prime Minister called it the biggest renovation after World War II. I was wondering if the cabinet had any clarity as to what the Netherlands would look like in 2030. What's the vision on that? There's gonna be a lot of coming together. I think it is important that we have a clear picture. Does the Secretary of State want to share that with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u340	Yes. There's been a lot of sharing. In the context of the broader discussion that started on the gas price and which Mr Blok has promised, a vision will come for the period up to 2030 and for the period 2030-2050: where are we going with each other? It's all coming up. If Mr Dassen says it's not quite what he meant, then he knows where to find me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u341	I would like to thank the Secretary of State. She had most of the questions to answer. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said yourself, the Secretary of State has given a lot of answers. I have had two questions addressed to me. For the sake of time, I will limit myself to that. The Secretary of State said this file is going to be a recurring item. It's about a lot and it affects people at home and companies. They will have both advantages and disadvantages. From left to right, I have heard the call from Members of Parliament to take that into account. Mr Thijssen, for example, indicated how we should keep the bill affordable for everyone, especially for low and middle incomes. There were also other MPs who asked about the effects. For example, Mr Stoffer, whom I do not see in the Chamber right now, asked what it means for the aviation, inland waterway and maritime sectors. I'd like to start with that. I hope that Mr Stoffer will listen in or look back on the debate. What does the plan mean for aviation, shipping and inland waterway transport? Let me start by saying that these sectors have always had a special position in terms of CO2 reduction and that we are pleased that they are now being clarified and are going to be covered by the CO2 reduction regime. The cabinet prefers a global solution, because these are sectors that operate globally; I call ICAO and IMO. If there is no such solution or if it is not sufficiently ambitious, we are going for the European position. We are pleased that there are proposals on aviation and maritime transport to do so. In this context, it is good that there are many different subjects. Mr Stoffer asked for that. I see that a lot of instruments are being put in place, and Mr Bontenbal said that even within the various sectors. What's the interaction? We have seen that the European Commission did pass on the impact assessment by instrument, but did not bring it together. I propose to the Chamber, also in response to Mr Stoffer, who is concerned about the impact, that we do our own impact analysis from the Netherlands, at least for aviation, shipping and inland waterway transport, to see what all these instruments mean for the elements that we consider important, for example the taking place within the sector of CO reduction or ensuring that the transition to sustainable fuels can take place in a good way. I think the Secretary of State for IenW might say something about that. The Secretary of State for EZK said that we have a sustainability framework in the Netherlands, which was drawn up at the time by the then Minister of Economic Affairs and the then Secretary of State for IenW, to which we test the transition. This is based on criteria that focus on sustainability, but also on criteria that aim at reduction throughout the chain. In doing so, we respond to the concerns expressed by the Chamber, including in the past. Perhaps the Secretary of State of IenW will say something about this. And we will continue to work on the interaction with those global objectives that apply mainly to the sectors that Mr Stoffer called attention to, because they operate so globally. We hope to have an image of this at the end of the year, but I cannot guarantee that it will be for Christmas. In any case, I say to the Chamber that we will report to the Chamber at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year what all these different instruments mean for these two sectors and what the picture will look like in its entirety. I hope that at least I have reassured Mr Stoffer. Mr Van der Lee asked about free rights for aviation. I think you know the file pretty well. They are now, of course, entitled free of charge and they are being phased out. You have seen that, as a cabinet, we are in favour of abolishing these free rights, so that aviation will no longer be able to avail itself of these free rights by 2027. As I told you, we will also address these aspects in this impact analysis to see what it means. As you can see from the sheet, we will ask the European Commission to support this path. We'll also ask if you can speed it up. We will also take this into account in the context of the whole impact. If we send the impact analysis to the Chamber, I think it would be a good time to return to Mr Van der Lee's question as to whether it can be done faster and if so, what that means for competitiveness, costs and transition. Those were the questions that were specifically asked to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u343	Thank you. You have an interruption by Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u344	I think I made three or four calls to the government. At least there was the call to abandon this strategy. I assume that's what the Minister of Fame is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u345	I think Mrs Leijten is referring to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management. The Secretary of State for IenW has just said that he himself will deal with this matter in substance. The essence is that we have to make a transition. In a number of sectors, there is not currently a fully sustainable means available. Aviation is one of those sectors, as is maritime transport. It's going to have to do that transition step by step. One part of it is to take care of those biofuels, the synthetic fuels. We recognise the concern you express, and that is why the Secretary of State for EZK indicated that we have established a sustainability framework which clearly states the criteria to be met in order to be used. That is precisely to ensure that it actually reduces in that chain, so that you not only impose a reduction at the end of that chain, but that it also happens in the country of origin. The second aspect is that you can see to it. We share your concern and that is why the sustainability framework was sent to your Chamber, I think, last year. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. He will probably go into the substance of the matter. Your question was: are you getting off it? No, because we need it. It is precisely for a number of sectors that we need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u346	I don't think it matters that much who I do it with in this cabinet. For years the defence has been that we cannot say: that is the end date for petrol and for diesel. And yet we're choosing to do that now. I think that is many years too late, years in which we have stood in the way of the development of cheaper vehicles for ordinary households. Millions, billions we've given away to expensive cars like Tesla's. I'm so afraid that's gonna happen to aviation and shipping too, because you're stalling. You have to say: that's when it's no longer allowed; work towards it. I do not believe in the sustainability framework. We have so many labels. I have heard the Secretary of State for Climate Policy say very clearly: CO reduction is our goal and it must be cost-effective. That means we have to make it here and that, if we cut down the forests in the jungle, it doesn't matter. We have to get it here. That is precisely what I believe to be the wrong answer to the major problem as a climate strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u347	I think you're making the words of the Secretary of State a little too short. The Secretary of State has indicated very clearly what the strategy of this cabinet is. One part of this is precisely what we are talking about here, but now I am speaking to the Secretary of State for Energy that we recognise the concerns about biomass, but that that is precisely why we have looked at how we can do it in a way that is good in the country of origin, but also here. That's the sustainability framework. That's not just a framework. That's our lead. There's not a kerosene now that's completely sustainable. I wish there was. That is why we need to go step-by-step, including technological innovations. There isn't an electric passenger plane that can fly to New York. Probably in 10, 20 or 30 years. I don't know. But that's why you have to give those sectors the chance to take that step. The same applies to shipping. You're buying a ship with the intention that it lasts a hundred years. I share that with Mrs Leijten. Aims are now being expressed with objectives attached and with phase-by-step which step you must have taken when. The Netherlands has said that we do not think this is sufficiently ambitious. For example, for aviation, we have agreed on a more ambitious objective in the Aviation Paper. We call on the European Commission to maintain our national objective for aviation. So I agree with you that you need to agree on clear objectives. But you must also give sectors, which invest once in 30 or 40 years in a fleet, the chance to make such an investment that it becomes profitable and they can earn it back. Those investments are incredibly expensive, because it may not yet be a proven technique or because they want to be able to experiment. This includes a consistent government policy. This includes setting a very clear objective and then allowing parties in that consistency to work on it. They need a transition for that. They can't do that all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u348	Thank you. That's a nice little bridge to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u349	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking me questions. There weren't many. I have an answer on the sustainability framework of the ESC. I have recently sent a letter to the Chamber on road transport, following questions from Mr De Hoop of the PvdA and Mrs Bouchallichh of GroenLinks, among others, with a view to ensuring that this is done as effectively as possible. If we step away from some things completely, we lose CO reduction. We do not choose to do so. I would like to bring that letter of 8 October to the attention of Mrs Leijten. Mr. Chairman. Mr Boucke asked a question about the railways. Of course, I am always very pleased when someone talks about the indispensable role of the railroad. Indeed, international rail traffic is subject to some kind of revaluation and rediscovery. We've already seen that a number of night trains are lucky to be back. The railway is not only very important for travellers. The importance of freight transport as an alternative to other forms of transport, for example by road, should not be underestimated either. We have great ambitions and with a very large group of European Member States we have called for attention to be paid to rail transport. With 27 countries and also the sector, we have asked for it to be concrete: for example, make it easier for travellers to buy tickets. Getting a plane ticket is now easier regulated than buying an international rail ticket. Look also at the European networks. On this point, I expect a proposal from the European Commission on long-distance rail passenger transport. We'll make a BNC sheet on that, too. I expect to be able to report to the Chamber in November, even before the discussions we are having on the international rail network, on the cabinet approach to international rail transport. Of course, this package also helps. There may not be anything specific about international rail, but what happens to other modes of transport, the Minister of IenW mentioned a number of issues relating to aviation and kerosene, of course, helps to create a more level playing field. Both Mr Grinwis and Mr Boucke asked questions about the European phase-out date for the sale of cars with an internal combustion engine. The Climate Agreement states 2030 and the Fit for 55, the European climate policy, states 2035. You have read in the cabinet's opinion that we would like to bring this forward. 2030 is our goal. At the same time, it seems to us to be getting a lot bigger. There is a group of countries that are now advocating it. Those countries include countries, such as the Netherlands, which call for it to be done more quickly, but in the past, in this dossier, resistance has always been expected from the countries that produce a lot of cars. Mr Grinwis is quite right. The agreement is not yet in place, but if Germany, an important player in Europe and an important car manufacturer, joins the 2030 alliance, which Mr Grinwis, Mr Boucke and I are such a fan, then that would really change something in the field of force. Anyway, we don't know yet. The first signals offer some glimpse of hope. With Mr Grinwis and Mr Boucke I hope it will happen. After all, it would be good news, because it increases the probability of this step. Mrs. Van der Plas asked questions about Deltares. She asked about the relationship between Deltares research on the rise in sea levels and the beautiful Climate signal '21 of the KNMI. I don't have the real copy on me, but I can really recommend it as reading food. It's a translation of the IPCC report. The 1.8 millimeters per year is the status quo so far and it is expected that this will increase over the next 79 years as far as the scenarios are concerned. Mr Grinwis himself said something about it in his interruption. The colleagues at the KNMI have really figured that out. One of the first work visits I made in my new missionary role was a visit to the KNMI. I can highly recommend it to any of you. There's experts there. Whether they are at the RIVM or the KNMI, we need them very much in the Netherlands. In that sense, I was really disturbed by Mr Jansen talking about financial interests and lies. Please let us have the political debate here. I am happy to do so with Mr Jansen, and you have done so with each other this evening. But let us not withdraw the debate from our scientists and knowledge institutes by making their work suspicious. I am responsible for the KNMI 100% for their independence and 200% for their quality. I think it's important that we honor the knowledge institutes. We should be proud of that. The KNMI is a global leader. That's very important. By the way, I heard some of you say that it is a shame that the nuance is lost when they talk about a sea level rise of 120 centimeters, 2 meters or more. That was not Mrs van der Plas, by the way. In the work done by the cabinet, we are being prepared for even greater sea level increases than that. The scenarios go on. The odds of it happening may be very small, but you do want to think about it. The KNMI has created scenarios for 2050 and 2100. That's table four on page 27, for the gourmet. In the table of 2050 the additional increase is between 14 and 47 centimeters, and in 2100 between 30 and 120. Those bandwidths and those uncertainties are at the heart of science. That certainly applies here. They're very neat in the KNMI report. My opinion on this is completely irrelevant. These are scientists. As a politician, I don't like that much. I recommend to you, but certainly also to the colleagues in this Chamber who were talking about the so-called prejudice, to read that piece first and not just the headlines. Why don't you visit again? Why don't you go talk to them? Talking to each other is always good. Then I'm curious about your judgment. So that's the answer. At Deltares there were already four scenarios, I say to Mrs Van der Plas. The KNMI also has a number of scenarios. The two-meter scenario is really extreme. That's what the KNMI says. Then there must be a total shift around Antarctica. The KNMI also says that this is not very likely. It would be very far-reaching. That's why they call it. The core are scenarios with very different numbers for the sea level rise. By the way, they are more than worrying enough. The same goes for other things that are in there, about heat and about extreme precipitation. I would like to say one more thing on that point. Mr Kops claimed that it is actually wrong to link climate change to the drama in Limburg, Germany and Belgium this summer. One of the things KNMI is very good at is climate attribution. Worldwide, they are conducting leading research to see if they have weather conditions and the chance that they will act, because that is what we are talking about here. They have done a very good study on this. It's August 23rd. Once again, I commend it to you. Climate change further increases the risk of heavy rainfall, as on 13 and 14 July. They are a leading force. By the way, this has been done with German colleagues by a large number of top people at the KNMI. I also strongly recommend that this research be carried out. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u350	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB and then to Mr Jansen from Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u351	I don't think I've done anything. In my opinion, I have only asked why this is being tweeted and not to include other facts. We all know that's what's going on in the media. The Secretary of State may also have the task of making this somewhat nuanced before everyone falls into a cramp. What also mattered to me is that those 1.2 to 2 meters really only come into the picture when we open coal power stations in full swing and we do not do anything about climbing measures at all. A science journalist from the Volkskrant also said so. My only question was whether we could put a nuance in that. I have heard several colleagues mention the two metres, and I hear questions about what we are going to do with them. That was actually my only question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u352	In my view, I have even explicitly said that I did not wish to include Mrs van der Plas in this group. I apologize if that impression has arisen. I don't think I did, but let's check the Acts. I just deliberately mentioned those bandwidths. These are 14 to 47 centimeters sea level rise in 2050, and 30 centimeters to 1.2 meters in 2100. That 30 centimeters in the 2100 scenario is 10 centimeters higher than in the previous bandwidths. I find that worrying in myself, or very worrying, just like the rest of the report. Again, I would strongly advise you to read not only the newspaper article, but also the report. Nothing to the detriment of people who make newspaper articles, but the report is full of uncertainty margins. I am aware of Mrs van der Plas' interest in agriculture. For example, the report shows that extreme drought is a huge problem. Climate change increases its chances. The same applies to extreme precipitation. So I'm gonna make a call. I received the report myself. Let me put it this way: we should not think about the extremes at all, but the bottoms of the bands are also worrying enough. We have to deal with that. As I understand it, Mrs Van der Plas and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u353	Yes. Finally, no question. I'm not a climate explorer at all. I am sure that the drought in agriculture is a real problem. That's what we talk about almost every day. It's just the way I look at it. I may look at the measures you may or may not have to take in a slightly different way from others. Your tip to go to the KNMI, I take it to heart. I'm talking to everyone, organizations I don't trust and organizations I do trust. I'm going everywhere. So I'll definitely do that. There too, I will put my critical questions to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u354	Sure. That's really good, too. Above all, my appeal was: let us let the experts in freedom and total independence do their job. What we then do with it is up to us, the 150 Members of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u355	I'm gonna stick to what the Secretary of State just said. I referred to a publication recently published by a scientist, to which the Secretary of State attaches so much importance, Joris van Hoof, of the University of Twente. He looked at the report of the RIVM "Health effects related to wind turbine sound" from 2017, which was updated in 2020. His conclusion was that there was a conflict of interest. In twelve of the papers studied, there was a conflict of interest. The striking thing about this is that in the original papers, the interests are clearly indicated, as you undoubtedly know, as required. But the RIVM left those things out. Those studies were paid for from the wind lobby. The RIVM report gives a very positive picture of the possible health risks associated with ultrasound noise and that sort of thing. That's a very striking thing, isn't it? Those are financial interests that play out there, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u356	First of all, you also mentioned the KNMI. I'm in charge of the KNMI. That's why I resent that. What I'm having trouble with is this. Of course things go wrong. But permanent thinking in conspiracy and deception... I've heard you talk about climate change as one big lie. All those who do so are liars who should actually be prosecuted. They all had to be held responsible. That leads us to see that in the nitrogen debate too, and frankly we have seen that in the Corona debate that you are constantly questioning independent scientists. You can take my policy into account on a permanent basis here. All your colleagues can do the same. In fact, that's your role. But just keep your hands off science. I think that would be a blessing for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u357	You speak of "science" as one thing. But this scientist has also done research on "science." And he comes to very different conclusions than the Secretary of State. Besides, I hear all kinds of allegations about liability. This is not so much about legal proceedings. Legitimateness is also about speaking to people about what they have said. So you can all go and look for things and pretend it's a big conspiracy, but you're the one who's trying to see a conspiracy in this. I would like a response to the research by Van Hoof of the University of Twente, who examined the study of RIVM and found that there is a serious conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u358	I would also like to ask you to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u359	But also this is the classic pattern. You take one case and you say the whole profession sucks. You have made no nuances here behind the interrupting microphone and in your own input. They were all liars. Anyone who talks about the climate is a liar. And now you're going to say to me: yes, but I have one individual case here. I'm not even gonna talk to you about that case with all due respect. Whether you are right or not, it is my concern that you consistently say, on these points, including climate change, yes, but there is also a scientist who... You usually quote an emeritus physicist or something, who says that it is not true. While, for example, the IPCC report simply states that the climate is changing and that is because of man. That's what science agrees on. Then I'm sure you can find someone who's also visited a university... usually of a somewhat older age... who says it's all not true. What you're trying to do with it all the time is to cast doubt. You should, but you'll find me in front of you when it comes to the KNMI.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u360	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u361	Yeah, so this is someone who's now in the service of the University of Twente. So that's not some emeritus professor who's retired, or I know what qualification you'd like to add to that. Moreover, if it is about the KNMI, which you are responsible for: that report is also very doubtful. Mrs van der Plas has just outlined what the problems are. There is a huge vote about two meters of sea level rising and all these things, while the report itself is a lot more nuanced. That's what's missing from the whole discussion. That's what my speech was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u362	Finally, the Secretary of State and then I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance. I call the other Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u363	This just pisses me off, because it happens consistently from some parties in this Chamber, and not just on this file. I think that's bad. We've seen it with the RIVM and we see it now at the KNMI. In a sense, Mr Jansen says: no, I am not concerned with the report, but of course the report is not correct. There are bandwidths in that report. I always advise people to read the report before they read the chocolate letters, let alone some tweets about that. There are simply bandwidths of renowned international scientists, building on many more internationally renowned scientists. We can make them suspect here all day long. I leave all this to Mr Jansen. But let us in this Chamber, and I also hope in debates... I appreciate the fact that Mr Grinwis at least started the debate on this. If we do not make the facts here part of the debate, we are very far from home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u364	Thank you. I would like to have a few minutes of cleaning and then give the floor to the last member of the government on this subject, namely the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u365	Mr. Chairman. I have three very short questions. There is a nice abbreviation in Brussels: the CBAM. Indeed, the CBAM works well within Europe. It doesn't work well outside Europe. Mr Bontenbal asked for that. That's what we're working on. We will draw attention to this in Brussels, whether we can solve it with subsidies or in other ways. Mr Bontenbal also asked about the Energy Directive. It is true that we can no longer be degressive. So we can't do this anymore if we take this thing. This means that we are going to bet on raising the minimum price. Otherwise, we'll have a problem. So it is true what Mr Bontenbal said. That will be our commitment. Finally, Mrs Leijten asked: is there any evidence of the effects of increasing energy taxes on sustainability? I sent an energy tax assessment to the Chamber in March. That was a report from CE Delft. It contains information that points to a connection. I say honestly that this is always very complicated. A lot of things are happening, so it's hard to tell exactly if it's the increase in energy taxes. But I would refer Mrs Leijten to that report once again. If that raises any further questions, I will hear it from Mrs Leijten. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u366	There's another question from... Oh, all of a sudden everyone's getting up. Perhaps it is good if Mrs Leijten first asks her question, because it is a question of an answer to her question. Mr Van der Lee and finally Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u367	I know this Secretary of State as very flexible. I have a question about something else, but he can handle it; I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u368	That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u369	5,000 billion a year is invested by the financial world in the fossil industry. I'm talking about gas, coal and oil. 5,000 billion a year! If we continue to do so, then all our measures will have no meaning whatsoever. We see that several large financial funds say: we are going to shift our investments. I ask the Secretary of State whether this would not be the time to have a discussion, especially in Brussels, about what we are asking our banks and our shadow banking world about that kind of investment. I mean, we say, there's a time when that stops. Maybe you should stop with one investment and then the other investment; you should look at that. But is the Secretary of State, is this cabinet, prepared to enter into that discussion? As long as there are such massive investments in the polluting industry that brings us to the climate crisis in which we are now sitting, EUR 5,000 billion a year! We'll get nowhere, no matter how hard everyone works here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u370	I think Mrs Leijten knows that the banking sector is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. But I come to Brussels sometimes, so I understand the question. The answer to it is nuanced. Let me speak for my own policy area. I'm responsible for export credit insurance. I'm working with the French to agree internationally that we're going to get fossil subsidies out of that export credit insurance. That is a wish of a large part of this Chamber and we are going to make a path for that. I'm responsible for that myself. I will pass on the other part of your question to the Minister. If I am in Ecofin, I sometimes sit there when the Minister is not there, then it is true that this is the trend. I think Mrs Leijten also refers to the announcement of the ABP of the week. For example, there are more and more financial institutions that have this tendency. So I think this can be addressed in Ecofin. But it's nuanced in the sense that you don't want to get rid of Dutch companies and be replaced by other companies. That's what export credit insurance is all about. So you have to do it together all the time. That's what Mrs Leijten asked. If you're gonna do this alone, it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u371	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u372	Now that ABP has made this decision under a great deal of pressure, and perhaps with financial arguments, after all, investment in renewable supplies at the present time is more than investment in fossil fuel, the risk is that when it disappears there will be a new hedge fund that will take over. Then that investment is not gone net. So I think you're gonna have to go to regulation eventually. We have said for a long time that it is difficult to regulate the financial world. But this Secretary of State has managed to make a spin on this tax avoidance in this cabinet. Well, so is the former Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u373	Yeah, be a little nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u374	Exactly. We're a little nice tonight, too. So some things that have been stuck for a long time can suddenly come loose. If the Secretary of State says he can't guarantee that this is the time, at least I'll call on the government to do so in the event of a motion to get involved in phasing out, as far as I'm concerned, rather yesterday than tomorrow. It has to be done in a good way, but if you don't do it, you get that waterbed effect, where the withdrawal of ABP doesn't make sense on the total sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u375	Mr President, I can no longer hear a question. Mrs. Leijten is about to make a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u376	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Lee and then Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u377	However, I would like to ask a question about the energy saving directive. Is it true that the Secretary of State, who is already three years old, is now going to carry out my motion in the matter of phasing out all the incentives that stand in the way of transition, mostly in favour of fossil? Does he now have enough information to present that exit path? That is what we have been waiting for for three years. A supplementary question: is the interpretation of the directive such that any new adjustment in our tax system must always be in favour of climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u378	I want to check that last interpretation, because I'm afraid to say that's true. Because "always" is so final. I'll get back to you in second term. On the first point, I do not know what Mr Van der Lee is referring to. If by "destruct" he means export credit insurance on my own file, the answer is that we're going to make a path for that and we're going to agree internationally that we're going to do it. If that's the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u379	Let me look at Mr Van der Lee and see if that is the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u380	If, however, he means it wider, he may have to repeat the question, because then I do not quite understand him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u381	I tabled a motion three years ago that was passed. That motion consisted of two parts. Firstly, an inventory of all the financial incentives that block the energy transition, usually these are things that are in favour of fossil. That inventory was presented to the Chamber six months ago. The second point in the motion was that there would be a phasing-out path to abolish these incentives and that this would be included in the INEK, the plan that the Netherlands should present to Brussels. This item is still not filled in. That's not just about export credit insurance, it's about all these incentives. We have been told every time that we need a little more time; we want to know what is coming from Brussels as part of Fit for 55. There is now a directive. Now is the time to map that entire path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u382	When it comes to the things for which I am responsible, i.e. taxation, so when it comes to, for example, the degressivity I was talking about earlier, Mr Van der Lee will be aiming for, and that is what you can call more, it is part of the directive and should therefore also be part of the Dutch policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u383	What a nice motion by GroenLinks. I'm curious. I had another question. I am still trying to get a little further with a commitment from the cabinet to get the support for this cabinet policy. In my view, it is essential that we do not leave room for populists to say that the common man is caught by the EU, but that, as a cabinet and as a parliament, we say: we want to make sure that low and middle incomes go through all this and that they are compensated for any cost increases. Now I feel like the Secretary of State is having a bit of a doubt, because it might be expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u384	Me? Oh, that Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u385	That's why you might be able to help as Secretary of State for Finance. The ETS is becoming more effective and the price of the ETS for industry is rising. What's the extra in 2028? And how much does the ETS cost for the built environment and for the transport the households? Can we not say very easily in this way: there are more revenues, so is it not a problem to take as a starting point that the costs for low and middle incomes are fully compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u386	The answer to this is, of course, that the cabinet has an incredible eye for this. We are going to spend a few more hours on about 3 billion that we are spending on the problem of high gas prices. Talk about support, et cetera. One of the reasons for doing so is that we want people to continue to understand that it is not taxation, but energy prices. That's why we're compensating them for this, just to keep the support. Otherwise, it is very easy to say that it is all because of our climate goals. That's where we're on the same page. Mr Thijssen has mentioned several times how to compensate for the effects of this package. The answer to that is quite simple. One: first you need to know what the package means and what its precise purchasing power effects are. Two: this will, of course, have to be done in an overall overall balance. We're not gonna do it by booth. If the plea is to give back what we collect by booth, that is the beginning of the end of sound financial policy. That's not how we're gonna do it. We're gonna look at that whole thing. If Mr Thijssen asks me whether this cabinet or this Secretary of State has an eye for the support and whether this Secretary of State is going to say to his successor, 'do you have a particular eye for the support of the policy and pay attention to the income position at the bottom', I think he is talking about 'yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u387	Finally, Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u388	I'm gonna try one more time anyway. In my view, as a starting point for implementing this whole policy package, we can agree that low and middle incomes are improving, that their lives are improving and that they are at least not getting any worse financially. That could just be a starting point. I think there's a lot of financial space in this whole package. That is why my factual question to the Secretary of State is: what is the industry-ETS going to get extra from this package in say 2028? And what is that other package of households going to cost, the ETS for the built environment and transport? That is also a question of fact. Then we have two cases. I think we will then see that it is no problem to make this commitment to society and to secure its acceptance in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u389	I repeat my point. I don't think you can do this until you know the package and it's been established, so this really seems too early. And I repeat my point: it is a general financial point. We generally don't work from booth to booth. We just don't. If Mr Thijssen asks if I am aware of the income position so that there is support for climate policy, then the answer is yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u390	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. We'll start with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to never or never agree to the EU's climate plans and not to contribute a penny to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-876]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u392	Short but powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u393	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u394	Mr. Chairman. You know the SP. We will follow this closely, especially on the condition that public investment also brings public profit and that we will not give Shell the key to climate change and their friends, the gas lobby and the gas industry, because then we will all pay for the profits of a few. That must not be the solution to this climate policy. And I assume that this Secretary of State will return with the new title of this European climate package. Good luck with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas disinvesting in pension fund fossil fuels is a positive trend;]] [[whereas we must ensure that hedge funds buy over the shares, thereby excluding investment from public control only further;]] [[points out that there will be a total ban on investment in fossil fuels and calls on the Demissionary Administration to commit itself to this at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the large-scale deforestation and destruction of living environments in South America, Asia and Africa associated with the production of palm oil and soya are partly caused by Dutch and European multinationals;]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to eliminate products and raw materials for which jungle is harvested,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-877]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-878]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u395	For a moment, because we must also vote on the first motion. A ban on investing in fossil, a total ban? We know we're gonna need a few more decades of natural gas. How exactly am I supposed to explain that? Is it a question of setting an end date or is it an immediate ban today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u396	I think you should do that in a reasonable way, but you have to work towards it. For example, the IEA, the International Energy Agency, has already called for no new fossil investment. That could be the first step. I could also imagine that we are not talking about private investment anymore, but that we are doing it through a climate bank, for example. Then it can set those conditions and you pull it more into the public domain. Because as long as we allow that 5,000 billion a year of investment to take place unregulated, we can run into it with all our plans, talk and debate, but we just won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u397	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u398	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers very much for their reply. I have three motions for resolutions on the use of the Netherlands during the negotiations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the Teunissen/Van Raan motion adopted in the EU, the cabinet would argue that the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive should take account of the actual emissions of woody biomass, but not so far;]] [[calls on the outgoing government, during the negotiations on the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive, to ensure that woody biomass should be removed from the Renewable Energy Directive, partly on the basis of actual emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-879]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u399	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Fit for 55 package does not exclude the use of wooded biomass and negative impacts on forests outside the EU, with potentially harmful impacts on biodiversity;]] [[calls on the Demissionary Government to make the "Fit for 55" package a precondition for the package not to lead to biodiversity loss, both within and outside the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present "Fit for 55" package will not ensure that the international maritime and aviation sector will be brought within the limits of the planet;]] [[noting that this will inter alia ensure that other sectors will have to make greater efforts to keep warming below 1.5 degrees;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a fair reduction path for the international maritime and aviation sector in the negotiations on the Fit for 55 package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-880]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-881]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u400	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u401	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bontenbal of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u402	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be brief. I thank the rulers for the answers. It's a mega file for MPs, but of course it's also for directors. I've had some of the answers. I also have the confidence that we will enter into a process over the next two years and that we, as a Chamber, will discuss the package in depth several times. I've heard a few things that reassure me or we need to talk about further. That's the overlap of instruments. That's what the Cabinet is working on. It's also gonna think twice about that 50% hydrogen. I'm happy about that. In my opinion, as a Chamber, we are also going to see if we can do something with a scientific test on certain themes. We're getting something from a timeline for what's going to happen on this climate package over the next two years. I therefore welcome this debate. This was my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u403	Thank you. That raises a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u404	Yes. There's got to be something wrong with me. Where Mr Bontenbal is now saying that a scientific test is needed to finally end the discussion on biomass, I would therefore like to challenge him to be so strong and strong as a party that he will now simply participate in the calculation of the models of the PBL and the electoral programme. They're not flawless either. You will hear us criticizing this when it is necessary, just like the models of the Central Planning Office. Then be so brave to do so. Because if you're pretending to speak scientific falsehood when we've really been having a debate on biomass for a long time, I think you should also join the other rules of the game that we're kind of agreeing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u405	I think Mrs Leijten is mistaken, because we have had our programme passed on. So I also assume she's taking back this accusation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u406	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u407	If I'm wrong, I'll take it back right away!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u408	Look! I hope one day we'll hear what's going on. Mr Thijssen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to put some factual questions to the Secretary of State for Finance. What is that industry-ETS going to get extra from this package? How much financial space is that? I also really want to know what the cost of this €185 times half of households is going to be, so that we get a little sense of what that compensation would cost. Then I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 550,000 households already live in energy poverty in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Fit for 55 package may lead to higher costs for households;]] [[Whereas support for climate policy is essential;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that households with lower-than-modal incomes do not decline on balance due to implementation of the "Fit for 55" package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-882]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u410	Then there's another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is crucial that pollution is given a fair price as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas the European Commission is proposing that the free ETS allowances should not be completely reduced until 2035;]] [[noting that there is a proposal for a carbon tax at the European external border (CBAM) to protect industry from competition from more polluting countries;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, faster phasing-out of free ETS rights combined with faster introduction of a carbon tax at the border,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-883]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u411	Thank you, President, and thank you to the cabinet members for their answers. A word on the social climate fund. One is critical of this, but can we at least look at a different diet than this one? I would like to refer, for example, to the motion that has just been read out: to speed up the removal of free rights from the ETS and thus to finance that social transition in Europe. I would recommend to the outgoing cabinet that we also read the coalition agreement of a new coalition in Germany to see if Germany is still a strong supporter of this broadening, as they were in the old composition. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 27% of Dutch funding for international climate finance is currently being spent within Europe;]] [[noting that a social climate fund has been proposed by the EU to support EU Member States in the climate transition;]] [[Whereas international climate finance should be targeted at the most vulnerable countries;]] [[calls on the government to ensure, as soon as the social climate fund in the Union is in place, that 27% of international climate funding within Europe is now spent on the most vulnerable countries outside the EU, where the impact of climate change is the most severe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Thijssen and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-885]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u412	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy transition benefits from as much transparency as possible on biomass;]] [[noting that the proposal for the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive (RED) does not require transparency in the biomass chain;]] [[Whereas the ESC recommends that the actual climate gains of biomass use be determined and based on policy choices;]] [[calls on the Government to promote enhanced monitoring, enforcement and transparency in the negotiations on RED;]] [[calls on the Government to call for the sustainability of biomass used to be conditional on the inclusion of the target,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Thijssen and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-884]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the cabinet for answering the questions. Today we are talking about the green giant called Europe and about the Netherlands as a frontrunner who can show him the way around the world. I have three motions that we can use to do that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Fit for 55 package proposed a phasing-out date in 2035 for vehicles with an internal combustion engine;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is committed to releasing all newly sold cars by 2030;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is not an auto-producing country and European cooperation is essential to achieve the ambitious goal of 100% new sales of emission-free cars;]] [[calls on the Government to work with a leading group of countries to bring the phasing-out date into line with the agreement in the Climate Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of excise duty on kerosene on flights within Europe pays a fair price for the consumption of fossil fuels;]] [[Whereas excise duty on kerosene is the most effective when imported at European level;]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to speed up the introduction of excise duty on kerosene,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that measures contained in the Fit for 55 package lead to a fairer price for pollution;]] [[Whereas low and middle incomes, in the absence of an alternative to pricey polluting products, may be affected if insufficient financial support is available;]] [[calls on the government to make efforts to protect the income position of low and middle income groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke, Mr Hagen, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-886]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-887]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke, Mr Erkens and Mr Bontenbal.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-888]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm struggling with how we as a Chamber can handle this package properly. On the one hand, it is not concrete enough to get all the financial insights and to realize what the impact is, what is feasible and what is not. On the other hand, we are in the negotiations and are moving forward step by step over the next one and a half to two years. I would actually like to propose two things, including to the cabinet. I'm curious about the reaction to that. I propose, for example, that we hold such a plenary debate with each other every quarter, which we do not need to record in order to at least discuss this package in its entirety. And I want us to deal pragmatically with requests for what several Members of Parliament have already mentioned: impact assessments, feasibility tests and so on. I understand we can't get all the insights at once. This also requires the Chamber sometimes to settle for half the information if the other half cannot be concrete enough, but it also means that the cabinet can start working on it. I have two motions in that context. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that there are several proposals in the "Fit for 55" package that could lead to a financial transfer from the Netherlands;]] [[noting that it is not clear what the total package means financially for the affordability of the Dutch middle income package and SMEs;]] [[calls on the government to make the overall financial impact of the "Fit for 55" package for the Dutch households, businesses and government transparent, to indicate the purposes for which these funds are being used, and to what alternative commitment is possible to reach 55% in a cost-effective way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Erkens and Mr Bontenbal.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-889]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u415	Then there's the second motion. I'll read soon, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Fit for 55 package contains some proposals which are difficult to implement;]] [[Whereas successful implementation is one of the prerequisites for achieving the objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a feasibility test for the whole "Fit for 55" package, reflecting both the main concerns of each proposal and identifying additional accompanying policies that may be necessary to arrive at a viable package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Erkens and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-890]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u416	Thank you to the chairman for the coulance in terms of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u417	Thank you, Mr. Erkens. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers, too. The "Fit for 55" package is indeed comprehensive. There was a discussion earlier on about the enormous information and the negotiations. That is why we have previously tabled a motion for a different debate on an EU monitor. We have stopped them, but this would be exactly why we would like to have such an EU monitor. I just wanted to mention that. Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Fit for 55 is a package that will shape the sustainability transition for the Netherlands and the rest of the European Member States;]] [[Whereas no research has been carried out into the ways in which the sustainability transition can be shaped more efficiently for the Netherlands through European cooperation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for the Netherlands with other Member States to launch joint projects leading to CO reduction, inter alia but not exclusively in the field of renewable energy, in order to achieve the Fit for 55 targets, and to inform the Court about these outcomes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Erkens.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-891]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u419	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the rulers for answering the questions. I have three motions, which are as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to send to the Chamber as soon as possible the subsidiarity and proportionality analyses behind the BNC sheets in the Fit for 55 package;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify how the other 26 European Member States consider the European Commission's competence in this area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Erkens.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-892]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u420	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that for the built environment a stacking of European climate provisions is proposed, inter alia, through the ETS directives, renewable energy production, energy efficiency and energy taxes, the ESA Regulation and the announced review of the EPBD Directive on energy standards for buildings;]] [[Whereas the measures resulting from this may have a significant impact on households and other building owners and on national policies;]] [[considers that, in view of the principle of subsidiarity, European agreements on the built environment are much less necessary than in other sectors;]] [[calls on the government to be extremely critical of the proposals which could have a major impact on the built environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-893]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u421	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission, when revising the Renewable Energy Directive, is proposing to oblige industry to ensure that at least 50% of the hydrogen to be used has a renewable origin by 2030;]] [[Whereas, until 2030, there will be a low international availability of green hydrogen, which means that the obligation for the Netherlands may entail a challenge of potentially 30 TWh additional renewable energy production;]] [[Whereas the Planning Bureau for the Environment notes that the proposal is not in line with the Dutch strategy for sustainability for industry;]] [[calls on the Government to take a critical view of this proposal, at least as long as its feasibility and affordability are not in the picture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-894]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u422	I've got ten seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u423	Yes, very good. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the cabinet for all the answers. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Parties involved in the implementation of the Climate Agreement are increasingly focusing on "carbon agriculture" as positive incentives are needed for the realisation of the land use climate statement;]] [[Considering that there are now several market initiatives in the Netherlands that issue carbon certificates and that they all apply their own methods and rules;]] [[whereas the European Commission will shortly launch two new initiatives, namely "Result sustainable carbon cycles' (Q4 2021) and "Regulatory framework for certification carbon removals' (Q1 2022);]] [[calls on the Government to standardise the methods for calculating, measuring and verifying carbon capture and for rules on carbon capture certification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Bontenbal.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-895]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u425	The second and final motion concerns my concern about inequality, climate and energy transition as a mismatch, including regional ones. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate and energy transition may have a major social and economic impact on regions, and these impacts may not be evenly distributed across the country;]] [[Whereas it is important to avoid the further backwardness of vulnerable regions due to the climate and energy transition;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the planning agencies and the CBS, to make the social and economic impact on regions clear in policy and annual analyses in the context of the climate and energy transition, so that policies can be pursued to prevent undesirable inequalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-896]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u426	Mr. Chairman. Just one more word on biomass. I do not want to detract from my colleague Mr Bontenbal's plea for science, but there is a risk that woody biomass, which is subsidised by heating up, will reduce its recovery, for example in compost. Woody biomass is needed as a structural material when making compost. If you want less animal manure and you still want a nice yield of potatoes, you need it. I call on the Cabinet to pay close attention to this when dealing with woody biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u427	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u428	Thank you, Chairman, and compliments on the planning. I am sitting here from 10.15 a.m. this morning and I did not expect to be able to conclude this debate at 9.30 p.m. But we're not here yet, because there's gonna be a second term of office. Mr. Chairman. I'll be quick. Thank you for the answers. I have one motion, which I have given the title "No misfit for 55." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the impact of the Fit for 55 package on Dutch households, businesses and public expenditure is still largely unclear;]] [[noting that it is now clear that this could result in a burden increase of €200 for households due to the increase in energy bills and fuel prices alone, while 550,000 Dutch households already suffer from energy poverty;]] [[noting that the PBL indicates that the Dutch energy transition may be significantly more expensive as a result of the green hydrogen requirements for industry;]] [[noting that, despite these uncertainties, the Netherlands is already negotiating in substance;]] [[noting that the CPB is currently investigating the socio-economic impact of the measures and that this study is expected to be completed early next year;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend negotiations on Fit for 55 at least until the CPB investigation into its socio-economic impact has been discussed with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-897]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u429	Thank you. I'd like to start by apologizing for the weird show tonight. I've overreacted to interruptions. I have to learn to let that sort of thing go. We have here in the Lower House to give an example to the people at home. It wasn't pretty. I haven't looked back yet, but I don't know if I'm going to. Anyway, I also see the Chamber as a community where people sometimes struggle. I do this sometimes, but in this case we have to make sure that we pronounce those things inside when we drink a cup of coffee. This is what I said, and I mean it. Then I still have time for a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is completely counterproductive for homeowners not to take the best measures to make homes more sustainable due to the pressure on climate policy;]] [[Whereas many of the measures that can be taken are still under development;]] [[noting that there is considerable doubt as to whether the most effective housing facilities are available;]] [[calls on the government to identify the policies needed to prevent homeowners from taking the best possible measures and possibly re-investing;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-898]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u430	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Plan Bureau for the Environment recently presented a lockdown as a strategy for meeting climate goals;]] [[speaks out to rule out the setting of a climate lockdown forever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jansen and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-899]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u431	I've got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u432	You have another one. I was confused for a moment because I saw Mrs Leijten walking past the interrupting microphone. I'll give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u433	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Union, through the European Green Deal Netherlands, is forcing climate policy to be implemented;]] [[Whereas this constitutes a serious violation of Dutch sovereignty;]] [[noting that climate policy is very damaging to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to invoke Article 50 and to leave the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jansen and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-900]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u434	The next item is the second term of office. Part of the cabinet is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u435	The one with the most motions isn't here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u436	I think I am about to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to give her appreciation of a number of motions and to answer a number of questions. Is that okay, considering the time? Very nice. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u437	I'll deal with one motion. Then the Secretary of State can close with the questions that have been asked for her. I'd like to respond to the motion in part No. 881 by Mrs Teunissen and Mr Van Raan. We believe that there is a considerable package for both maritime and air transport. In reply to Mr Stoffer, I indicated that we should look closely at the impact. We are in favour of these ambitious objectives, and bear in mind that, in national aviation policy, we are going even further in that direction. I think this motion is superfluous. That is why I would like to discourage the motion, also because I cannot fully assess what Mrs Teunissen means by a more just reduction path. I think that in the aviation note sent to the Chamber, it is very clear what we intend to do with the aviation sector and how far we intend to go. In my view, this is even sharper than the European commitments that are now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u438	Very briefly, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u439	I just want to explain what we mean by a fair reduction path. Aviation and shipping are now being exempted from the obligations of other sectors which have to comply with the Paris Agreement. Air and shipping are now excluded. We want these sectors to comply with the Paris Agreement. That's what I mean by justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u440	But then we will have an ancient discussion, which I have often had with Mr Van Raan. This has once been a very conscious choice in the Kyoto Protocol, a conscious choice for sectors that do and do not fall within it. I believe that with the package that is now in place from Europe, there are considerable ambitions. I have also indicated that the Netherlands is continuing its national aviation policy. I think this is more than just. That makes the motion really unnecessary. There is a whole discussion behind it, which I would like to discuss in the aviation debate with the Chamber. This goes even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u441	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion by Mr Bouke, Mr Hagen, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Thijssen, the motion in part No. 886 calling for an alliance of countries to ensure that we maximise our efforts to phase out the new sales of cars with an internal combustion engine not by 2035 but by 2030. That's what we're doing with eight ambitious countries. We sent a position paper in March to insist on this. As we discussed earlier in the debate, I very much hope that it is true that the Germans will join this camp. That would mean a huge difference for the force field. This motion I give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u443	Thank you. I see the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u444	I still owe an answer to Mr Van der Lee. Is it the case that with the new Energy Taxation Directive as it is proposed, every new adaptation always benefits the climate? The answer to this is no, but it's more nuanced. There are three objectives for ETD: more in line with climate objectives, but also promoting the internal market and achieving tax revenues. At some point, one of these other two objectives may prevail. I'm just telling you the truth. The spirit of the proposal is, of course, what Mr Van der Lee said. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mrs Leijten's 877 because it is so absolute. I have no judgment on the "spoken" word. The request to the outgoing cabinet is to commit itself to a total ban on investment. In Europe, for example, we are committed to a taxonomy as green and as pure as possible, no. 1. No. 2: we refer to efforts by sectors, to the efforts of the financial sector in terms of climate. They are strong, especially in the Netherlands, for example by ABP. Phase-out cannot go to zero in one go and a general ban goes too far. I also said what I wanted to say about it in the debate itself. The motion in part No. 883 by Thijssen and Van der Lee is about improving the green border tax. It is actually about increasing the pace of phasing out the free rights and converting them into the CBAM. Can't we go any faster? The Commission has really chosen a middle course between what can be done in terms of implementation, what is wise in terms of getting used to industry, and the need and the will to do it quickly. Personally, I'd like to go faster, too, so I understand the wish. If we can do it faster, I don't think we're against it at all, but this is definitely a middle ground. I must discourage the motion in this form. That brings me to the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That motion gets judgment Chamber, but we do say that kerosene excise duty is part of the whole package. We can't light it out and feed it faster. However, I agree with Mr Boucke that the internalisation of external effects is desirable. He knows, because I'm the one who introduced the ticket tax myself. However, in the Aeronautics Note, the Cabinet has carefully described how it intends to allow climate policy in aviation to continue to work. So I do not think there is any difference of opinion, so let me say, Chamber, that we are not just going to light that thing out and do it for a while. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u445	Thank you. Let's go clean up. Mr. Thijssen, given the time I'd like to pass on to the appreciation of the other motions. I think Mr Boucke is the first petitioner of the motion, so we are not interrupting each other's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u446	But I asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u447	You'll get the answer from the Secretary of State. I know what question you mean. He's gonna be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u448	Thank God you're saving me. For your understanding, I have given you a great deal of time for the interruptions. We also have another debate, so I'm asking you for a bit of coulance. The Secretary of State is going to give her appreciation and also answer a number of questions. I call the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a few more questions I was going to come back to. I hope I have them all now. I'll start with the letter on hydrogen. I am not going to sum up everything that would come up, because it will be given to the Chamber at the end of November, at the beginning of December. The letter from LNV to Mrs Van der Plas about the eating of meat, dairy and eggs will come in a few weeks, around mid-November. Mr Thijssen mentioned the climate scientists who said that the EU should have been climate neutral ten years earlier. He asked if we could order PBL to find out. As I said, we have actively advocated that 55% in Europe. It worked. According to the European Commission, 55% in 2030 and climate neutrality in 2050 are in line with one and a half degrees. Increasing engagement in the EU, such as climate neutrality in 2040 instead of 2050 is to a next cabinet. Worldwide, in 2023, we look at how the world is progressing towards that one and a half degree. I'd say let's do what we all have to do first. In 2023, it will be evaluated worldwide anyway. Mr Thijssen had asked about ETS industry revenues versus ETS buildings in 2028. I think that was the question he was trying to interrupt. We really took a look at that, but the negotiations are still ongoing. The estimates are therefore still very uncertain. For this reason, we simply cannot go into it in concrete terms. Then I'm gonna make the motions. There's a lot of them. The first is the motion in part No. 876 by Mr Kops, as I am used to them. He knows my answer: dissuade. The motion in part No. 878 belongs to Mrs Leijten and deals with the elimination of products and raw materials for which jungle is being cut down. The responsibility in the decision-making process lies with BHOS. That's not up to us. That is why I would ask Mrs Leijten to table the motion there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u450	Let me see if Mrs Leijten is prepared to hold the motion and then submit it to the debate. Mrs. Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u451	Well, no, actually. The climate crisis we are experiencing is not just about the Netherlands or the European Union. It's about global action. Everything's connected. Apart from the complicated package in which we all look at how we are going to follow it and how the negotiations are going to proceed, I really think it is a good idea if the Dutch Government has the commitment to keep looking beyond the borders. If football fields continue to be hijacked every day, nothing will happen to Europe's climate ambitions if we reach them in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u452	Thank you. The motion will not be held and will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u453	Yes, then the motion will be dissuaded. Then I have the motion in part no. 879 of the Party for Animals. I'd advise against it. Of course, it's about woody biomass. We will be committed to further strengthening the sustainability criteria, as has also been announced. However, I would like to reiterate that biomass remains necessary for the time being in order to achieve the climate targets. That's a fact we all have to live with. Then the motion to part No. 880 by Mrs Teunissen. It is about the debate we have just had on the loss of biodiversity and the peripheral condition. I'd advise against it. I tried to explain why in the debate. The motion in part No. 882 by Mr Thijssen and Mr Van der Lee are concerned with the discussion and the debate we have just had. The motion calls for compensation for the people at home when the 'Fit for 55' plans and the negotiations are complete and we know that they amount to an increase in costs. I keep saying the motion is premature. I'd say hold on until we know what we're getting at, because you'll know what you're talking about and what's possible or not possible in national policy. Then it will not only be about the costs at home, but also about other matters. I'd really like to advise you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u454	Let me see if Mr Thijssen is prepared to hold on to his motion. That's the motion in part No. 882.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u455	You can just use this as a starting point for the negotiations. So no, I'm not gonna hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u456	Then what's the appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u457	I think that's silly. In about every sheet, in the letter and throughout the evening I explain that affordability for households is the starting point, the common thread and the commitment of the cabinet. We want to achieve the goals in such a way that everyone in the Netherlands can experience it. Then I ask for room to enter the negotiations and say: leave it to a new cabinet to see what national policy is needed when we know where we have landed. Fine if Mr. Thijssen doesn't want to hold the motion, but I don't want to be thrown away like I don't care about affordability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u458	I am sure the Secretary of State agrees with me that affordability is something other than the fact that households are not falling back on it, or even improving on it. More than half a million households now live in energy poverty. I just want the cabinet's commitment that these people are making progress with this package, not going backwards. That's different from affordability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u459	Thank you. If the motion is not held, what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u460	Then she's been dissuaded. It's about this package, but it's not there yet. There's a negotiation commitment. I'm trying to get some room here to negotiate that. Then there's a package and then we know what that is. Again, let us not pursue income policy through climate policy. The motion in part No. 884 is Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 885 has been dissuaded. It's about a social climate fund. I've explained that we're reluctant. We have a lot of questions about that. For international climate financing for vulnerable countries outside Europe, we have other EU instruments. In addition, of course, we also have other funding options. I've already explained them all. The motion in part No. 888 is Judgment Room. It belongs to Mr Erkens and Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u461	That's the motion in part No. 889.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u462	No, that's the motion in part No. 888. The motion in part No. 889 is actually judgment room as well. If Mr Erkens and Mr Bontenbal are okay with me going straight ahead, I will stick to the judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 890. One moment. Sorry, they're all stuck together. That motion belongs to Mr Erkens and Mr Grinwis. If I may interpret this motion in such a way that we do so as soon as there is more clarity about the way in which the national interpretation is designed, I can give her judgement Chamber. So, if that's the reading, I can give the motion a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u463	I'll take a look at Mr. Erkens. Can he agree with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u464	Yes, if the Secretary of State means that if aspects of the package become clear, then we can already understand it, and that this does not wait until everything is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u465	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u466	Yes, the precise consequences of the package and the proposals, including their feasibility, depend above all on the exact national implementation of the task that comes out of the European negotiations for our country. That will be in any case in a subsequent cabinet, but at some point that becomes clear. We are now at an early stage of the negotiations in order to carry out a comprehensive review. So that's actually kind of the struggle. I think we're talking about the same thing. And accompanying policy, as I said earlier, can also follow later. So if I can look at it in that context, I think we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u467	I see Mr. Erkens nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u468	The motion in part No. 891, tabled by Mr Dassen and others, deals with the cross-border projects on which I would return. I see now where Mr Dassen sits in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u469	Finally. But he's been sitting there all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u470	Yeah, but I don't see him until he's walked forward for an interruption. I'm still getting used to the room, I guess. But his motion gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 892, tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u471	The order in my set of motions is different, but it's about the Stoffer/Erkens motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u472	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u473	Yes, correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u474	This motion I must advise against. I understand the question, but the Commission's analysis is before us. We have responded to that. So even more analysis is actually not available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u475	Then the motion to part No. 893.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u476	The motion in part No. 893 is judged by the Chamber, if I may interpret it in such a way that we monitor the consequences for the built environment in the further process. If I may read the motion in this way, we can take it with us in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u477	Let me look at Mr Stoffer to see if he can agree with this interpretation. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u478	The motion is a little more precise, but I can live with it. We will see what happens and then we will react again. So I can live with this interpretation in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u479	Very nice. Thank you. The motion in part No. 894 I must advise against. In this motion, the government is asked to speak critically already. I think it is a good thing that we are first doing the research I mentioned about the feasibility of this goal and the additional costs for the Dutch industry. We are talking about this. So let's see what comes out of that. In fact, this is true in a broad sense: let us not close everything at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u480	I had doubts about this motion, in particular because there is also a commitment from the Secretary of State to come forward with a letter. I just realized it's coming in November or December. Could we make a deal that I'll hold the motion until then? Then we can see which direction it goes. At least we'll have a better picture. Is that a workable road?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u481	Maybe we can get one more step closer. Perhaps in the motion "to express a critical opinion on the proposal" could be replaced by "to critically assess the proposal." I understand the question and purpose of the motion. That's how I think we're gonna end up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u482	I think this is a good proposal. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u483	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u484	We will look at the exact wording of the motion, but we will do so only by the time we put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u485	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u486	Then we can take the space to critically assess it. The motion in part No. 895 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 896 is also judged Chamber. I read the motion in this way, I say to Mr Grinwis and Mr Stoffer, that we will do it in the motion when we talk to the planning agencies to see what is possible. I think that was the point, too, but I'll just mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u487	Mr Grinwis nods, so he agrees with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u488	He's nodding. The motion in part No. The moment we say that we are not participating in the negotiations, they will continue. I am not in a position to say on my own in Europe: we are stopping the negotiations for a moment. I think the proposers will understand that. I would say: send them out with a mandate to at least make the Dutch commitment clear. Then I can keep coming back and show you how things are going. Otherwise, we're just not at the table. The conversations are just gonna start. Then the motion to part No. 898 by Mrs Van der Plas. That's actually for my colleague from LNV, too. I assume that I should read the motion in such a way that it is regularly reviewed which policy is cost-effective and that information is provided. Did I say "LNV"? It's BZK, excuse me. But I'm giving the motion judgment room. I trust that my colleague will be able to do so. Then I have the motion in part no. 899 by Mr Jansen and Mr Baudet, on a climate lockdown. There really is no one who has brought that up except Forum. I don't really understand this whole motion. It is not at all the issue either. I don't know what kind of video to get out of here, either, but I'm deceiving the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 900.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u489	I promise this won't be a movie, but it's about the Planning Bureau for the Environment. This was indicated last year, 2020, on the basis of the failure to meet the 2020 target. I mean that would be an opportunity to achieve the objective. Perhaps you can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u490	I haven't been alone today, but ever since I've been doing this, so for months and for hours, I've been telling you what the cabinet's commitment is. This is above all a positive commitment, focusing on the opportunities and on how we can get everyone along. My commitment is not, and will never be, to scare people of the situation that something like a climate lockdown can come or what more misery is in subsequent motions. So I would really like to invite Forum to think constructively instead of constantly trying to scare people. However, the motions have been dissuaded; that may be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u491	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u492	I think it's a speech-exmotion, so it doesn't matter that much. But when it comes to scaremongering, I think you're all working on climate change, so that's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u493	Mrs Leijten, do you have another question about the motion? Yeah? Mrs Leijten, SP, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u494	We have seen it before with other Forum motions about plans that are not there at all. Shouldn't the government just say: these aren't plans, so support policy? Because if they vote against this, they say, "See? It's gonna happen." You say: I do not want it; this is not part of the plans. Then I'd just say support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u495	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. It's up to the Secretary of State. The appreciation is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u496	I understand it very well and in essence it could. You will then hear'support of policy', so I am afraid again how that may sound. We're gonna have to find a mode for this. I really do. I mean how we handle things like this. But let me at least say: it has just never been discussed, so in this case it's just bullshit. It also has little to do with my policy, so in that sense it clashes with my feeling to say: support for policy. Because bullshit isn't policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u497	I understand that very well, but we've seen what happened to the social points system. Then it'll be voted out of here. It is not part of the plans, it is not on the table and there is no bet on it at all. But because it's then voted off, it's a story. I'd say there are no plans and it's not part of Fit for 55. Then why shouldn't we just say: speaks out, wisdom to the Chamber? You can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u498	Yeah, it's a speech-out. I suggest that the Chamber rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u499	Perhaps Mr Jansen would like to continue the motions. Surprise us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u500	Perhaps we can find a common path in this. It's a speech-exmotion, so in that regard it's up to the Chamber. The Planning Office for the Environment has indeed referred to this and said that this is an opportunity for achieving objectives. If you haven't seen that, I can send it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u501	Thank you. Maybe you can find each other in there. I really want to close this debate now, because there are also Members of Parliament who are eager to start the next debate. I would like to ask the Secretary of State or the motion in part No. 900 is also dissuaded. I wrote that down. Yeah, it's being dissuaded, too. May I have your attention, please? Before we say goodbye, at least I would like to thank the directors for their detailed reply. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament. I would also like to thank the few people in the gallery: chapeau, you have been there all evening, for which I thank you. I also thank the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u502	Next Tuesday we are going to vote on the motions tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. Then we move on to the third term of the General Financial Reviews.
